ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e90	The President will state that an enquiry has been made by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs regarding a closed hearing of control within the Committee. The Committee requests that a hearing be held on the day of the Grand Meeting, i.e.: Monday, May 29th. This means that the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 27 of the Rules of Procedure must be waived. The President proposes that the request by the Control and Constitutional Committee be met and that the Storting approve that provision of the Rules of Procedure be waived. Is there any objection to this? – It does not seem so, and it is considered adopted. The Committee further requests the presence of an adviser from each of the size groups during the consultation, in addition to the member of the Committee from each group. The President proposes that such authorisation be granted. Is there any objection to this? – This does not appear to be the case, and this is also considered to be adopted. The representative of Kirsti Bergstø will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e107	On behalf of myself, it is a pleasure to promote a proposal to ensure that the Storting treats the country's pensioners with respect through the full treatment of the social security settlement in Stortinget. I request that the proposal be examined in accordance with point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e114	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before we go to the cases on today's map, the President will ask the Parliament for a new vote on case no. 5 on Agenda No Eighty-two, that's yesterday. Due to the similarity of votes, no valid decisions were taken under A, I, Section 9 A-4, fourth paragraph, new third and fourth sentences. The President will therefore ask the Stortinget to resume this vote. That then applies to Innst. 302 L for 2016-2017 from Agenda No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e184	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e196	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e212	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity be given for the replacement of a line limited to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e221	It is nice to deal with a matter in Stortinget where the intention, as I understand it, is supported 100 pst. of a total mass. Money from Stortinget to provide services to the population, in this case kindergartens, is to be used for the agreed services, and it is important that we follow up on that. Thank you to SV for lifting that principle, and I believe and hope that it will be a leftover impression after this debate: that we agree on that. This does not mean, however, that there is full agreement on the conclusions and proposals in the case. With a background in our political stance, we have different paths to the goal, not least as it approaches election campaigns. In its comments on the private kindergartens, the Committee identifies as a particularly important partner in order to meet the desire for childcare facilities for all. There is also reference to the fact that the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from SV directly interfere with the conditions of those who have already established a kindergarten as part of the large cross-policy effort for full coverage. There is a minority proposal from the Workers' Party, which they themselves will explain. For the government, and for the Right in Government, it is important that continuous efforts are being made to provide a qualitatively good offer to the users of kindergartens: a good and safe development environment for children, security and good dialogue with supervisors and offers of variety that can provide the right supply to the individual child. By investing in continuing training of staff in kindergarten, and by raising kindergarten teacher training, we are constantly taking steps to improve the offer. The fact that the government also sends a standard of manning at the hearing is another step to ensure the provision of children in kindergarten. The kids deserve the best. A good childhood lasts life. We in the Right cannot see how the proposal to legislate a ban on the profit of private kindergarten owners ensures the quality of the offer to the children: Firstly, the intention must be to spend money for kindergartens on kindergartens, whether they be private or public owners. Nor is it okay for municipalities to spend the money on anything other than the purpose. Secondly, the term ‘profit’ is not precise. I therefore have a sense of the Stortinget's request for a sample to map the flow of money in publicly funded welfare services. Similar action has been taken by the Minister of Knowledge, who has commissioned the Directorate of Education to monitor violations of grant provisions. Proposal No. 3 from SV will therefore be to turn open doors, especially since the Right has been the driver of transparency about the operation and results in kindergartens and has been given access to this. I see that SV will also go into and override the social partners by legislating the pay and pension rights. This is basically strange from SV's side. But even more strangely, it's because they want to "link" the right up to a moving goal. Thus, Norwegian municipalities should be able to change the rights of employees in private kindergartens without the employee or owner being part of the negotiations. Does SV mean that the private have to set up a more expensive pension scheme just because the municipalities have it? The basis for equal treatment now in place in the financing of kindergartens is precisely created through a balance between direct and indirect costs, and there is a common understanding of it. Of course, this is totally unsustainable for us – we leave this to the social partners, who have a long and good tradition of dealing with it without political interference. Private kindergartens have approx. 50 pst. by the kindergartens in their kindergartens. All surveys indicate that the satisfaction of users is at least as high in the private as in the publicly owned kindergartens. No quality indicators indicate that children in private kindergartens receive a lower offer, and employees have good conditions. We are therefore not involved in creating uncertainty about the conditions of operation of the private kindergartens. We welcome everyone who is committed to and wants to run kindergartens. Now we have to make sure that we do not wash out the kindergartens with the bath water. Today we have a good code that is the same for all kindergartens. The same requirements apply to the apparatus around the children, to all drivers. That's good. We will actively follow up on the fact that the money we allocate to the nursery sector is being used in a good way. That's what we're doing, and it's our intention to continue into the next growing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e249	Barnhage is a central welfare service for the Workers' Party. That's why, together with the proposalers' party, SV, we went into the brink of a children's hail where we introduced the right to kindergarten and provided for a large-scale expansion of kindergartens in line with that right. Over the period 2005–2012, 67 000 new kindergartens were established around Norway. Neither the development that has taken place up until now nor the future expansion of new sites to achieve a measure of continuous admission can be possible without our having private kindergartens on the team. About half of all kindergartens are in a private nursery. Private kindergartens are an important part of the Norwegian nursery sector. The most important thing for us is that we have enough kindergartens, and that they have a high-quality content and put the kids and the kids' safety first. Of course, it is also important for us to use public funds for a welfare service for just well-being, whether in school, hospital, hospital or kindergarten. It's a recognisable Workers' Party position. Today, the Children's Court Act states that government grants should benefit children in kindergarten. However, as the proposers point out, there are more examples of commercial kindergarten owners making more money in kindergarten than the legal formula for a reasonable annual result. That's why we're of the opinion that these examples as well as the fact that the state gives over 21 billion annually. kr in grants to private kindergartens, suggests that there is a need for a national overview of how the law works and how the money is used. In the past, we have made proposals to allow municipalities to make similar demands for private kindergartens as for municipal kindergartens. The financing of municipal and commercial kindergartens was assimilated from 2016 onwards, but without equal financial treatment leading to equivalent equivalence of requirements. Despite the fact that it is the municipalities that are responsible both for getting all the kids with the right to sit and for having a good and sound kindergarten offer, they have only a limited right to make demands on private kindergartens. Private kindergartens may, for example: decide to ingest a child without a legal right in front of a rating child. They may not include refugee children, children with a minority background and children with special needs. They may choose to keep staff and the proportion of kindergarten teachers at a level lower than that of municipal kindergartens and may have shorter opening hours, choose not to participate in common user surveys, etc. We believe it is unreasonable that the private kindergartens should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner as long as there are no more demands on the money, for example. staff, opening hours, pay and working conditions, admission and transition arrangements to school. With real non-discrimination, commercial kindergartens will be less reimbursed for expenses they do not have, and therefore we are promoting a new proposal to that effect today. We have pointed out in our remarks, together with the Christian People's Party, a previous request from the Financial Committee on the Profits of Publicly Financed Welfare Services. We continue to support such a request for a sample tasked with identifying cash flows in publicly funded welfare services – a sample that can propose solutions that ensure that public funds go as far as possible to actual welfare production and that can identify trade between related, tax havens, etc. That's what still has to be central. As a nation, we have invited private actors into a completely necessary uplift for the kindergarten sector. We're dealing with that. That choice is made, and that's it. Then it must also be legal in order, and subject to regulations, for those individuals who are a necessary part of the sector, to make money on what they do. It must be possible to take dividends, among others. in the case of investments in the mass of buildings and the quality of children. What we want to avoid is tricking and mixing with numbers and billing between companies with the purpose and result that fewer public dollars go to welfare. Therefore, as I said, we are still calling for a sample that can systematically review the entire range of publicly funded welfare services. We also want to avoid the possibility for private actors to make greater profits than otherwise because they are subject to different requirements than for municipal kindergartens. Therefore, as mentioned above, we propose to allow municipalities to make the same demands for private and public kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e268	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e273	Yes, I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e278	The representative Lasse Juliusen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e283	I think it's a good idea to remind each other that without the efforts of private kindergartens, we would not have had the babysitting we have in the country today. They have made a very decisive effort. I hope all the parties recognize that job. It has been a cross-political wish that we have to have full child care coverage in the country for all one-year-olds. Without the efforts of the private kindergartens, we would not have been there today. We all have to admit that. But then, of course, it is important that we show interest in how public money flows go. For the Christian People's Party, it is very important that the government grants that we give to private kindergartens go to quality and to the best of children. We have to show interest in making sure that the money is just spent on it. Kindergarten quality is not only about building mass but also about having competent adult densities in kindergartens. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party, together with the government parties and the Left, was able to strengthen the recruitment norm in relation to kindergarten teachers. It's been absolutely crucial. Today, we actually have a nursery teacher's standard of 44 p.m. I know there's a majority in this room to raise it to 50 pst. This is what the grants should do. We must also be concerned about that in the future. Otherwise, I would like to remind you of the note on which the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are united, which refers to a request decision of the Financial Committee on the profit of publicly funded welfare services. In this Decision, the government was requested to set up a public body to identify cash flows in publicly funded welfare services, including trade between related persons, use of tax havens, thin capitalisation and dividends. The committee should also propose solutions to ensure that public funds go as far as possible to the production of actual well-being. This is something that the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party stand behind. I am pleased to hear that the committee's chairman, Svein Harberg, also says that he has the sense of this request decision, for this is about showing the necessary interest in how the public money flows, which were supposed to go to welfare, go. With regard to the last revelations in the VG – now it was not kindergartens, but child protection – where one has also been flying under false flag: if what is in the VG is right, and that the money is used for things quite different from actual well-being, more of us should get our eyes up for this and follow even more closely. But in this post, it's important for me to say that I recognize the amazing job that the private actors have done to get the babysitting we have. Yes, we have to make sure that we make demands on quality, so that the public money is actually used for it. And we have to show interest in how public money flows go.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e296	There are many services provided for the community, which do best, and do well, by many private enterprises. It is a question of whether to provide excavator services, whether to provide ICT solutions to the public, or whether to provide nursery services to the public. But something is more moral to make money on, and something is immoral to make money on. In fact, it is so immoral that one has picked up a word from 1945 that was used about those who had gone to war with the enemy, namely ‘profiter’. So evil is this, that you choose to use this word. It is of course important that children have the opportunity to play and explore and have good kindergartens. It is very important that we have quality and qualified professionals to work with these children. Obviously, it is very important that we have different offers, because children are different. And Norwegian kindergarten policy is a success – SV did a great job in government to build more kindergartens, and they hadn't come a millimeter without it being done by all the small innovators around this country who were willing to spend their money, say, their energy and their burning heart just to achieve SV's goal in government, namely to build kindergartens. That was great. But then it's quite unique that after asking all the private people to stand on, spend their money, spend their weekends and spend their evenings building up the best possible possibility for children, you have to take from them the opportunity to earn the investment they have actually spent time and money on. And it's not that we don't know the numbers, no; the Ministry of Finance has numbers. If a person withdraws a salary from the owner of a single-member enterprise, dividends from Norwegian kindergartens are approx. 1 pst. If one removes the salary from sole proprietors in kindergartens, it is a 0.4 pst profit draw. It's not quite ambitious, but it's probably someone who can make money on this. We've had many engaged kindergarten owners who have done this job for the public, and I don't understand why there are some sectors where it's okay to be able to raise wages. It is all right that a health practitioner — with a lot of healthy patients — can take out between 4 and 5 million. kr in salary, which is the highest in the fixed medical scheme. It's all right. But the lady who has started a nursery and spent everything, invested money in and said in that nursery, will not be allowed to get any profit when she sells it, sail if that is her pension. And then we're going to have the same pension and salary system here for these -- we can have that -- but probably it'll mean that a lot of private people get worse, because there are a lot of private people who have better pension systems than the public. It's a fact. So it's building here a picture of this. In addition, there is a reason why we have come into the situation we are in, namely that SV in government first removed the right of establishment and, secondly, created a system of grants that was so twisted that one had to have a lot of capital in order to have kindergartens over time. People have been paid grants five years later, and then it's clear that the little lady who runs the small nursery has no chance, because she doesn't have that much capital. Thus, large kindergarten owners have come in and bought them. That is why we have come into the situation we are today. With more predictability in terms of grants, and by reintroducing the right of establishment, one would have got more of the small establishments, the ones we want, those run by a pedagogical vision of a kindergarten. That is why the Left has put forward the proposals we have put forward in the Chamber today, both in terms of identifying a new funding system to make this more predictable, and in terms of looking at the possibility of reintroducing the right of establishment, which is the one that ensures good quality. So I think we should have done a lot more to assess the quality – and also have the quality of those who assess the quality, so that we have proper mechanisms. Because what's nice about having some private providers in such a system as what we have in kindergarten is that if someone's too bad, they actually have to stop, because then there's no child there. This is not the case in a public kindergarten – there are some instructions and some comments in the newspaper, and then you continue. Here we have to ensure quality, and we also have to do that with regard to supervision. I'll take up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e313	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e318	Contributing to a good start in life for all children is one of the most important things society can do. Children who are to be explored and trained in play and learning, and who are to grow and develop together with others, need stable adults around them who have competence in children and understanding children’s needs. That all children are seen every day, and that they receive care and encouragement, is important for a good kindergarten. Cooperation between private owners and the state made it possible for the red-green government to implement the greatest welfare reform in recent times. Lawmaking the right to a nursery place required a large-scale expansion of new kindergartens – and we succeeded, thanks to large public investments and operating grants, but also through the self-employment of private kindergarten owners. That is precisely why we have a nursery law, which aims to ensure that taxpayers’ money is used in accordance with the objective, and that private kindergartens have a reasonable annual accounts for not losing their own funds. Since then, the kindergarten sector has been changing considerably. Figures from the SSB show that half of the children who go to private kindergartens go to kindergartens owned by the four largest companies. This shows that buying and selling kindergartens has become a big business. We also know that kindergarten owners make hundreds of millions of dollars selling kindergartens, which are largely financed by the public, and that they build up large private assets on the community's resources. At the same time, when we know that many kindergartens have too low staffing, that there are no temporary workers in the case of sickness, and that the pay and working conditions for employees are often worse than in the public kindergartens, there is reason to put a big question mark on whether the kindergarten law adequately ensures that government grants and parental payments are used for what they are supposed to do, namely our children. Commercialisation implies motivation for the owner to maximise profits, which can be done in several ways in kindergartens, namely to increase the amount of work, to have more children per employee, to extend the opening time without hiring more employees, to use less skilled labour, etc. Another option is, as I said, not to have temporary leave in the absence. This helps to weaken the possibility of better and more equivalent childcare facilities. It affects the children, and it affects the parents and employees. From the research we know that manning and competence are most crucial for the quality of kindergarten. On questions from Audun Lysbakken about how much public money goes to the purchase of welfare services within state child protection, kindergarten and asylum recipients, it is difficult to look at government estimates of what ends up as profit to the owners of private enterprises. No information is available on how much is collected. Without a national overview, it is difficult to get a comprehensive picture of how many municipalities have carried out controls on private kindergartens, and what is the result of such controls. There is reason to believe that it is demanding for municipalities as a kindergarten authority to use the law to verify the legality of such cases. Unfortunately, this may also be a reason why the municipalities refuse to address just this type of case. However, the available evidence suggests that there is a concern that the intentions of the law are respected. It's unsustainable. The government's lack of control over how the kindergarten law is being complied with, and the extent to which commercial kindergarten owners take advantage of private profits, undermines the confidence of an entire sector. The Right Party and the Advance Party have for a long time driven by fear propaganda that SV will kill all private kindergartens. I can understand that it is unpleasant for the Minister of Knowledge of the Right to be at the top in charge of kindergartens without having control of where government grants and parental payments are going. It would be thought that the experience from the Westerdal case and from media postings had contributed to a greater vigilance. Unfortunately, the debate we have today suggests the opposite. Despite the ban on dividends in school, the Ministry of Knowledge has acknowledged that the law needs to be tightened up. And why don't you look at the kindergarten sector at the same critical point, is too bad a mystery. We have to take inwards the changes that have happened. It is such that what was started up as ideal kindergartens, is now purchased from large commercial ones. We see a centralization and an accumulation of few owners. On that basis, I address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e344	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e349	This is an important matter. It's not a matter of being for or against private kindergartens. There was a broad political plurality on the Stortinget that was behind the nursery arrangement, and yes, it is quite right that we had not managed to get what we have today, without the private kindergartens. We in the Center Party are especially concerned with the private, ideal kindergartens. But then it's like there's been a new reality when it comes to private actors. We now have a new type of commercial providers, owners who have never seen their feet in a kindergarten, who have it to take money out of business as morals. The question is, do we have a law that can meet this reality? Today we have a clear and clear private school law, or freshman law, that regulates that one cannot give exchange or otherwise transfer excess to the owners or theirs in the vicinity when it comes to school. One has a clear paragraph that school owners cannot incur costs in terms of rental costs on property or local property, which means that public grants do not benefit students. The question asked by the Central Party is why there should be a difference between school and kindergarten in this matter. It's not that because we have this fresh air that regulates and says no to exchange, there are no private schools in Norway. There are many private schools in Norway, and they do well to run this as an industry, if you want to use it. To say that introducing a similar law in the kindergarten field means the end of all private kindergarten owners, I think I'm a scare propaganda. It's not a reality. Of course, private individuals should also be able to operate even if they get a regulation of equal opportunities exchange with the laws that one today has for school. The centre party had a national meeting and took a decision in this field in the programme work. We're saying we don't want to. «a trend in which an increasing proportion of the kindergarten sector is owned by commercial groups. Kindergartens are an important offer for the country's families with children and are funded through large public transfers. Kindergartens shall be part of the community, and people and elected representatives shall know the management, governance and operation of the nursery. We will work for a law that ensures that funds allocated to kindergarten operations will go to this and not be dividends from private owners." We believe that there must be equal demands for private and public kindergartens, among other things. in the case of admission of children entitled to kindergarten, admission of children with special needs, opening hours, etc. We have put forward three proposals on this issue, which goes into these points: that funds for kindergartens should go to this and not be exchanged by private owners; that, in private kindergartens, pay and working conditions should be added accordingly to public kindergartens – we do not have a pension, which is part of the SV proposal – and we have a proposal to guarantee equal obligations when it relates to the admission of children with the right to kindergarten, etc. We shall vote in favour of proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party at the point that deals with the same thing, but that doesn't go as far as ours, but we're going to support the Labour Party subsidiaryly. When it comes to proposals from the Left, the Center Party will not join them. We will support proposal No. 4, which is from SV, to ask the government to draw up a national survey on how children’shagelova is being observed and enforced in the sector, which regulates public attendance and supervision of private kindergartens. Then I'll take up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e371	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e376	Let's be honest about what this proposal is. SV has launched a campaign against the private kindergartens with the Workers' Party and the Center Party. We see it in Stortinget, and we see it in several municipalities. They're called welfare profiters, some people use even worse words. They are portrayed as a sort of extortioner of taxpayers' money and undermines private well-being. The paradox is, of course, that these are the same kindergartens that all three parties, with SV in their head, invited to contribute to what was then called a dognad. Then it is claimed in the debate here that the private kindergartens undermine the confidence of an entire sector. Then it's very strange that you don't see it again when you ask the most important ones, the parents. If you compare the figures for the private and municipal kindergartens in the parental survey, both do well, but — if anything — the private kindergartens do even a little better, for example. in the case of satisfaction: 4,4 in the 2016 municipal kindergarten score, 4,6 for private kindergartens. It is not a sector that has undermined confidence in itself. In other words, there is a lot of evidence that the parents are satisfied. The SV with the other two sets of tows is creating uncertainty for half of Norwegian kindergarten children, who go into private kindergartens – uncertainty about start-ups, uncertainty about framework conditions on which private people are totally dependent, uncertainty about what was promised when inviting the private kindergartens to do, and yes, in fact also uncertainty about whether these children, half of Norwegian kindergarten children, could be sure that their places are there, or that the places are there in the future when perhaps a little sister or brother is going to start there. There is nothing, as far as I know, that suggests that the private kindergartens have a worse offer than the municipal ones. They are subject to the same quality requirements and, as mentioned, they are expressed by parents as being satisfied. Now the quality of all kindergartens is also raised by a standard of manpower and a reinforced standard of education – a historical commitment to quality. And then you can go into the argument that this is a sector where there's so much money being spent. When you invited the private kindergartens in, it is quite right that someone had money from before that they invested. Others were, as the representative Skei Grande mentioned, idealists and entrepreneurs who invested their own savings and worked evenings, days and nights to get this up. In 2015, 192 million. DKK of close to 19 billion. kr in dividends. I agree that the grant will go to the children. There are also clear legal rules for this, but it is necessary and reasonable that private nursery owners may have a certain remuneration for the capital and labour input into the operation. Otherwise, you may have a fundamental discussion about the difference between kindergarten and school in terms of the prohibition of dividends, but the truth is that the situation is completely different. 49 pst. by Norwegian children go to private kindergartens. The private kindergartens were invited to contribute to a job. You haven't done the same thing in school. I agree that we should check that the law is being followed. We need to be clear that we need quality standards and requirements. We need to be clear that private kindergartens also need to deliver qualitatively good offers, and that you should not have unreasonable benefits. But to conduct an ideological campaign against private welfare providers and private contributors to our welfare society only on ideological principles, I am deeply and deeply opposed to. The representative of the SV also wants to introduce a legal requirement to ensure that employees in private kindergartens have equal pay and working conditions. There is a manifest breach of one of the most important carriers in the Norwegian model, namely the cooperation of the parties in Norwegian working life, where the parties agree to pay and work. Moreover, it can be added – if you look at the facts – that after the government introduced the financing scheme for private kindergartens, we see clearly from the latest 2015 cost figures that there are significant changes in pension expenditure towards minor differences in pension costs between private and municipal kindergartens, simply because private kindergartens no longer receive compensation for pension costs they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e395	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e400	If I were to venture to give a brief summary of what the Council of State writes in its letter of reply to the Committee on Profits and Dividends, I think I have my words in mind if I say that the opinion is that today's legislation is sufficient to avoid extraordinary profits and unreasonable profits. We may have believed that in other sectors as well. Nevertheless, we recently got a big deal about huge profits and money being brought out of the country, in child protection. This is related to SV's proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox Can it be guaranteed that current legislation is sufficient to avoid similar issues in the kindergarten sector? Do we have enough control over the cash flows in the kindergarten sector to say that what we've seen in child protection can't happen in the kindergarten sector as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e409	There were several questions at once. What we can never guarantee is that our code is being followed, just so it's clear. That is, I cannot stand here and guarantee that no one will try to abuse or break the law or break the law. I also believe that there is reason to see whether the municipalities – which is the primary controller of the private kindergartens – use the authority and the responsibility they have to check that you do not take unfair dividends. That's why I asked the Education Directorate to look at it. Some legislative changes may also make sense. It's not like today's legislation is stoned. But it's something quite different than just pushing aside the principle that was used when the previous government invited the private kindergartens to do, and pursuing an ideological principle so far that you say you don't actually want to let the private kindergartens run in a way that allows them to maintain both space and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e420	State councils have been repeatedly informed by the Stortinget to introduce a crew standard in the kindergartens and to assess whether a requirement of 50 pst. kindergarten teachers shall be part of it. It is now exposed and exposed, and at the very end of the period something has to be sent to the hearing – we do not know what it is. At the same time, private kindergartens receive the same amount of funding as municipalities use in their own kindergartens. So a municipality like Oslo, where the Labour Party Bureau has a target of 50 pst. kindergarten teachers and spend money to achieve this in their kindergartens must give equal money to private kindergartens, but without being able to demand that the money be spent on kindergarten teachers. The question then is how the Council of State ensures that the money allocated to improve the quality of kindergartens is actually used for that very purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e427	Firstly, this government has exactly the same ambition of manning standards as the previous government, namely a standard of manning by 2020. It was correct to say that the previous government committed itself to. That's also what we committed ourselves to, and that's why we're sending it out to the hearing now. Then, too, this majority – with particularly good help from the Christian People's Party, but also from the Left – has not only been able to talk about or judge a reinforced pedagogical norm in the kindergarten, but actually a strengthened pedagogical norm in the kindergarten. We're now sending out hundreds of millions of dollars to the municipalities. We also raise the demand for the number of kindergarten teachers and the requirement for both public and private kindergartens. There's no way to say that we're not following this. There will be an exemption scheme, but this is a requirement that applies to all. So here, there's been a clear contribution to the quality. I just want to add briefly that it may well be that the municipalities should have the opportunity to look at what the private kindergartens are doing. My scepticism is that the possibility of having, for example, private kindergartens is abolished. a separate educational profile, thus also abolishing diversity in the kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e436	The Council of State therefore believes that introducing the same rules for kindergarten as for schooling – getting a child care law that is equivalent to the health law when it prohibits exchange – would lead to the kindergarten sector being unable to maintain either space or quality. My question is: Does the Council of State think that it is okay that public funds are used for exchange when it comes to childcare and not in school, or will he change the freshman promise? And what's actually the difference between the fresh-soullova and the baby-hagelova in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e441	The answer to the question is yes, we believe that it is okay. So you can have a fundamental discussion about the difference between kindergarten and school, but I think it's a little bit wiser in this context to look at the realities. When the private kindergartens were invited, there was an open invitation to help solve a major social problem, namely that we lacked kindergartens. We've never had that situation in School-Norway. This means that there is a completely different historical background, which cannot be compared to developments in the post-school sector. Within the school there are a few percent in primary and secondary schools. That's 49 pst. of the children who go to private kindergartens. It's quite obvious that if you cut, if you change the assumptions that they were invited to when they were invited to do, it will create uncertainty for 50 pst. by Norwegian kindergarten children and their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e447	I would like to ask about the difference between school and kindergarten. If you are going to do a basic discussion, it may not depend on the number of people who attend a private kindergarten or a private school at any time, or on the number of private children's protection providers. One should, as government and state council, have a fundamental position on how one will ensure that public funds go to public supply. To ask another question, will the Council of State then remove the paragraph of the Health Law, which says that there is a ban on exchange today? Since it has major implications for kindergarten, there must also be great consequences for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e452	There is a difference in substance between introducing dividends in the post-school sector, which I am opposed to, and for which this government has put forward proposals to actually tighten up the legislation, to make it clear that it is not allowed, and to change the framework conditions for a sector that the political majority invited to contribute. Then you can make a discussion and say that everyone should do like the Socialist Left Party and make an ideological principle that says that either it's okay to have dividends on absolutely everything, or it's not good to have dividends on anything – absolutely no kind of dividends in any area. I believe that this is a very bad policy, and that is a bad policy because it does not take the realities into account. You may have a principal study circle discussion about it – I have been to many of them before – but it doesn't take into account the realities. The fact is that the government that the representative Toppes party belonged to invited the private kindergartens under some conditions that are now spreading uncertainties and threatening to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e457	It is good that the Council of State has brought with it the time of history: School-Norway was built under the left-wing state – then built by the public. Barnehagen was built under SV – then built by private. It is clear that then we also have to make sure that someone has contributed to that skill and others have not. I think it might be more striking to look at the difference between how it is possible to make dividends in traditional human occupations, but not in traditional women's markets. That's an equally interesting problem. But since the Council of State actually has to deal a little more with the facts than many representatives of big business have to do in the Grand Council's pulpit, I wonder: is it such that the Council of State has information that suggests that private kindergartens have a lower pension system? Does he have information that says they have less professional coverage in their kindergartens? Does he have information that says they have a lower salary, those who work in private kindergartens? And does he have information that says there's a lower quality within this kindergarten group? Or is it true, when the Association of Education and the Trade Union actually boasts of their pay agreements with these kindergartens? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e464	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e469	As I said in my post, we have no indication that there is a higher level of quality in private kindergartens than in public/municipal kindergartens. Then it's important to remember, if you look at the numbers, that especially in private kindergartens, there are also very many small kindergartens -- family kindergartens, that kind of thing. If you look at the total numbers, it's true that there's a slight difference in the proportion of kindergarten teachers, and there's also a slight difference in adult density. But it's, as the representative Skei Grande also pointed out in his post, an average number that doesn't tell anything about all the private kindergartens that have a much higher proportion of kindergarten teachers than the public. Now there are many politicians who – rightly – boast that they want a 50 pst. pedagogical proportion, that's fine, we have a lot of private kindergarten chains that have had it as a goal a long time ago and fulfilled it a long time ago. Nor is it irrelevant — if we first compare these macro-digits — to see that parents are all more satisfied at macro-level with the private than with the municipal authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e476	I don't think the council heard well enough after what I said in my post. Because what I said was that the government's lack of control over how the kindergarten law is being complied with, and how much commercial kindergartens are taking advantage of, undermines the confidence of an entire sector. It is then natural to ask whether the Council of State intends to have control of the situation and what action to take to get it. Governments have talked about reality several times, but the reality is now that through internal billing and creative company models, funds spent on young people – through tax money, through parental payments – disappear into private profit. The reality is that the diversity, as the Council of State sees fit, is reduced to half of the kids in private kindergartens are now divided into four large companies. Is this a development the Council of State is satisfied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e483	I have asked the Education Directorate to look at how the municipalities, which is the most important control authority here, use the responsibility they have to look at benefits, because compliance with the legislation is important. After all, this government, supported by a majority on the Grand Duchy, has also said that the State should have a responsibility to control the kindergartens – not only, but it can, for example. means that if a nursery suspects, or believes, or has reason to believe that excessive profits are being made, or that the legislation is being broken by other means, it is possible to inform the County. I believe it is important that the legislation is complied with, and we work all the time to ensure that it does. Then I do not share the representative Bergstø's use of the word 'chain' as if it were a shell word. I don't think the Norwegian kindergarten sector is getting better because you have 40 kindergartens with 40 different owners. I actually think that in the same way that a large municipality like Oslo, Bergen or Trondheim can do a lot because they have a lot of kindergartens, the same is true for private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e492	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e499	I would like to mention the thread that was so widely adopted in the speeches by the Council of State, particularly in the first part, and in the speeches by the representative Skei Grande, namely that an official document from the Stortinge has promoted a proposal to eliminate profits. It seems that the proposal has been passed through the Committee without the opportunity to explain the social accident alleged to be associated with profit. So I would strongly encourage the representative Bergstø to come up to this pulpit, so that we know what SV adds in the word ‘profit’. You can wonder, of course, whether this is a connotation to SV's roots as a Marxist party, and that they will therefore remind some of their constituents that one so clearly has a vision other than capitalism. It could be such an undercommunication. However, when promoting a proposal for the national parliament of the country, it is necessary to be prepared to define what this concept of profit is, in addition to – as the representative Skei Grande had in mind – the desire to label people who have their work and do their job in a highly societal sector of Norway. According to Gyldendal’s great dictionary, a profitor is one who has made an unjust economic mistake, cf. the term ‘war profitor’. So there are no positive associations in it, and that is not what is meant by the proposer. It can also be noted on the fly that the centre party argues for the same, but chooses the term ‘profit’, which is a more understandable and more civilised concept, and then obviously does not want to have the stamping community that SV is after. You can ask, "A baker, is it a food profiter?" A travel agency, is it a profit for holiday experiences? A bookstore, is it one that hassles itself unjustly or takes advantage of literary experiences, experiences of joy and insight? I would very strongly urge the representative Bergstø to come up here and say – from a legislative point of view and if you are to ban profit – which items in the accounts you have to take out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e512	Just a few comments and a clarification on voting: I get bored on behalf of all those who every day make an effort for kindergartens, like owners and drivers, for the way they are talked about here. The reality that SV presents here is hard to find in reality. It is an entire sector that has lost confidence. I perceive that there is great trust in the work done in kindergartens around, whether they are private or public. And there's no idea at all that the employees are being exploited and have it terrible. No, there are many who have good and meaningful jobs, and there are many who really provide that children have a good working life. I think such descriptions as the representative Bergstø has here are quite – yes, I am embarrassed on behalf of Stortinget. That's not how we talk about so many engaged workers in that sector. To the Workers' Party, which will have equal demands for public and private kindergartens: there are equal demands for public and private kindergartens. It's exactly the same requirements for the public kindergarten as for the private kindergarten. There's no doubt about it. So to the proposals: the SV proposals are the same as they were promoted in the case. Proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from SV, and the proposals from the Central Party, i.e. no. 7–9 is involved in changing the assumptions and conditions of those who run kindergartens and who have started – as the Council of State correctly said – on completely different premises. We can't be in on that. Proposal No. 4, from SV: I have explained before that it is to turn open doors. That is exactly what the Council of State has been doing, so at least it is not necessary to adopt it. In reviewing the proposals, we, the Right and the Progressive Party, have stated that we are in favour of proposal No. 6, from the Left, where we ask the government to assess whether the rights of kindergartens to establishment and expansion should be changed so that this can work even better for those who want kindergarten. So proposal No. 6 will support the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e525	We're just going to say again that private kindergartens are an important part of the kindergarten sector. There are a lot of parents and kids who are very happy with the private kindergarten where they've got room, and so will it be in the future. And of course, the employees of private kindergartens have exactly the same burning commitment for kids and for the job they do. It is interesting to hear that at least to some extent the Council of State opens up that it may be reasonable for municipalities to make some demands. Of course, we want to go beyond what the Council of State suggested. We believe that non-financial treatment is unfair on different terms. Although we have the law and the legislation we have today, we see that there are different opening hours, there are different crews, there are different kindergartens in municipal and private kindergartens in several municipalities, and there are different admission rules. As I pointed out in the line exchange instead: in Oslo, where it is set as a goal to have half kindergarten teachers, I realize that it is premature for the municipality when they set the goal, that they must spend the same amount of money on both private and municipal kindergartens without being able to impose the same requirement on the private kindergartens. I am also a little uncertain about the kind of consideration of the private kindergarten's own pedagogical profile that should defend that it is not necessary to be able to make equal demands for private and municipal, for example. as regards the pedagogical density of each municipality. As I said, we are committed to having better control over the public funds that are granted for well-being. What we've seen in the field of child protection has shown that what we might think is good control, not necessarily that. It also relates, as I said earlier, to SV's proposal No. 4, and we warn you that we can join in and support it. Otherwise, we basically support what is stated in proposal No. 9, but we perceive that it is covered by our proposal No. That is why we are going for our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e539	This has become an important and quite interesting debate over and over again. Prime Minister Erna Solberg spent a lot of time building up as a party leader in 2011 by meeting people who worked in the welfare and rehabilitation sector. She spent a lot of time showing that she was engaged in the softer values of society. She wrote a book that, as I remember, called "People, not billions" – people, not billions. It was obvious that the Prime Minister wanted to wipe the Right clean from the stamp as a cold party, which did not put welfare and exposed groups in the centre. There has now been a report in another field, re-entry, entitled ‘Millions — Not Humans’, to contrast the Prime Minister’s book. In the welfare field, we will see what has happened when we have received a call for tenders for reintroduction. This is interesting. In this case it applies to kindergartens. That's right, what Councillor Røe Isaksen said, that there are a lot of private kindergartens, and within the concept of ‘private’ we have a lot of different corporate forms. What is the ideal corporate form of the Centre Party in the case of private kindergartens is parental kindergartens. It's our highest form of company if it's capable parents who do the big job of running kindergartens. We want to facilitate that form of company, because it gives the closest connection between parents and young people and has the best prerequisites for being dynamic and really developing kindergarten in line with what is child and parent's wishes. What we see is that we're getting more and more kindergarten groups in this area. Kindergartens are funded by the state or by the parents, and it is the state that sits with the most. And to say to the representative Tetzschner, ‘Profit’ is not the word of the center party, it’s ‘profit’. Private kindergartens can get a return on their capital in the form of a mortgage, a fee paid for their services, but the return on capital invested is dividends, and the dividend is fundamentally wrong in this sector, when it is financed by the government. It is something other than ordinary, ordinary, business activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e550	I have to thank the representative Tetzschner for the invitation to talk more about SV's vision. And now I wish it was possible to borrow the speaking time to the Control and Constitutional Committee, but I can hardly, because here's the long time and here's the short answer. If we're going to use short definitions — yes, we can use the term ‘profit’, ‘profit’, ‘profit’. But in this context we are also talking about hidden dividends, in this context we are also talking about the consequences of the problematic development we have seen in the last ten years, namely that kindergartens become investment objects for fast money, and that we are opening up internal billing and creative corporate models to make money disappear from the young, from the play options, from proper pay and pension conditions and to tax havens. This will be reinforced the more you want market principles into the sector, as the Left calls for, and the less you see what is actually happening. The representative Harberg is misrepresenting political realities by claiming that SV is talking down dedicated workers in the kindergarten sector. If it is said that public funded funds should go for the purpose, that parental pay should go to our young people, and that tax money should go directly to the kindergartens – if there is a negative mention of engaged workers in the kindergarten sector, it says a lot about the Right Panic in this case. The debate we are hearing today is completely exposed to some kind of critical thought goods and vigilance from the right. We have a situation where we see that in the media there are almost weekly new critical conditions, we see child-restraint barons that are missing funds that would go to child-restraint children. What is the government's answer? More tenders, more competition. We see a Cologne foster home king who has taken hundreds of millions who have disappeared into his pocket, instead of going to foster homes and to the kids, to the vulnerable children. In this situation, the Left SV is attacking not to let the founders go. We're not talking about them, we're talking about being able to put down some posts for the evolution that is, and saying that money spent on vulnerable kids – yes, they're going to go to them. There is a difference between repairing a broken road and repairing a damaged childhood. There is a difference between what kind of services should be under official control and additional supervision, and what should not be. Here it's a screaming naivety from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e557	When it comes to these debates in Stortinget, I feel it is imperative to go up to the pulpit, because it's just as strange every time how the right side starts talking about completely different things. They don't want to go into and analyse on death and life whether these vulnerable welfare services have market characteristics. The representative, Trine Skei Grande, said that there was no difference in producing excavation machinery services, or shoes, compared to welfare services. It is quite incomprehensible that you have such a reason and poor analysis of important things. It is said that private invitations were invited to take the child's hail. That's absolutely right, and I think we're going to be so honest and say that it was probably the few that watched the developments we've seen in this area over the last few years. Both this and other welfare areas, such as care for the elderly and the protection of children, are sectors that have been taken over more and more by an ever smaller number of large commercial groups, either international or national. It's not so strange that the Swedish capitalist recommended his investor friends to go into the welfare sector, because as he said, here's low capital requirements, there's little risk, and there's a lot of profit. Or I could use another word: big dividends. And when you talk about this being an attack on women who work in welfare professions: in the whole world, there are a few women who are the owners of these big groups! Those who are investors and own capital companies are mostly men, and the women who are there are women who own very, very much. They're very far from those on the floor who work in the first line. I have an example of profit within these fields. In 2007, I think it was, the bourgeois City Council in Oslo responded to the request of the SV and the Workers' Party that a medium-sized hospital in the capital took it out between 35 and 40 million during a tendering period. kr in dividends. Where did that money go? Not to those who worked on the floor, not to the elderly. No, that money went to owners who are very far away from the day-to-day operation – it is also the case under the Share Act. That's what's happening in this sector. Is that what we want? Do we want taxes – co-financed services or, like kindergartens, also funded by parents – to go to owners who are far from the services? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e570	There may be a need to clear up a little in the debate. The debate is not about whether you are in favour of or against private kindergartens. It's getting funny when the Council of State claims that some parties in this room are attacking the private actors – it's quite simple and unsubstantial claims that come from a government council. But really, it's just an attempt at an escape. It is an attempt to avoid talking about what is at the heart of the matter, namely how we ensure that the public funds actually benefit the kindergartens. I think it's a rather strange follow-up from Michael Tetzschner and Svein Harberg. As they themselves point out, under the red-green government there was a violent bloom of private kindergartens and new places. I can also mention that under our government 355,000 new jobs were actually created. Two out of three came in the private sector. But under today's government, almost no new jobs are created, and to the extent that there are new ones coming, there is in the public sector. So we can cancel the ideological attempt to derive the discussion in a completely different direction from what is at the heart of the matter. Svein Harberg says that today there are equal demands for private kindergartens as it is for public kindergartens, but that is what is the fundamental misunderstanding. This is not the case with regard to the possibility of imposing requirements on opening hours and admissions, and with regard to staffing and the proportion of kindergarten teachers. I find it strange that the right is not more concerned with the fact that when we grant money from the Stortinget, it actually benefits the kindergarten owners – that it does not contribute to more kindergartens, contribute to higher quality, but that one lives well that too much of the money disappears from the kindergarten sector and in profits. While the Council of State speaks hot for quality and claims to work for this, it can be seen that you do not go further in terms of higher pedagogical densities. The size has repeatedly asked for the introduction of a crew standard in the kindergarten, and for the assessment of 50 pst. kindergarten teachers, but there is no development. So the council has to talk as much as he wants, but the reality of this discussion is that we want public funds to benefit the kindergartens and contribute to higher quality, while the right-hand side very well lives that too much of the money disappears for completely different purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e583	Interestingly, the representative Tetzschner does not defend his prime minister, who wrote the book «Humans, not billions», because that was where the line was laid for what was to be a social liberal Right, who was to embrace beyond what was involved in money. But that's the way it is now. For the kindergarten group, which is given an increasing place in the operation of kindergartens, dividends are usually substantial – returns on capital invested – i.e. in addition to what one can get for rent, in addition to what one can get for paid work. The centre party uses the term dividends from private owners. We are aware of what SV says, that there are many opportunities to distribute a profit from a business into items that are not called dividends, but it is a demanding position when one has first opened up the possibility for a limited liability company to operate such a business. But our line is that dividends should not be allowed on capital invested when one receives payment for work done and the premises made available. Then one at least has a constraint on what we're talking about. But what's the reason I took the floor is the Workers' Party's remark related to this. It is very unclear how the Workers' Party is dealing in practice with the issue of dividends from kindergartens that are limited companies. It is said that a person should have a level playing field between private and public kindergartens – it is linked to recruitment standards, to professionals, to admission and everything, and that is good. But in their proposal they don't say anything about what we're now discussing: the possibility of dividends, the return on capital. That is why the pressing question is: Will the Workers' Party support proposal No. 7 from the Center Party, where we specify that we are not involved in the profits of private owners? That's the big question. There's a lot of people here from the Workers' Party who've been talking hot for profits. Then one must also take the consequences of that in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e594	Thank you for the debate. You can ask private kindergartens in the municipalities now governed by the Workers' Party whether they perceive that they are being treated well or poorly. But the reason I took the floor was that the representative Stokkan Grande was injured to say something that is wrong, and that can either be due to a delay or that the representative has not followed up on what is in the budgets. After the budget agreement for the year's budget, as I said in my speech, there are now 400 million. kr in half-yearly effect, i.e. from kindergarten start this year, to an increase in ped norm in kindergartens. The full-year effect of this is probably 700 to 800 million. NOK, if I do not remember correctly. What is the government and the cooperation parties then agreed to do? Well, just to sharpen the standard of education, so it'll be about 43 to 44 pst. It's simply wrong what the representative Stokkan Grande said.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e601	It can be demanding for anyone to follow, and it is clear that the Council of State has not followed my private life either, because it is more than three years since I divorced, so the name is Grande – that is why it is informed about. Firstly, a small line to Lundtägen asking questions to the Workers' Party about this with dividends. By being able to make equal demands for private kindergartens that can be made to the public regarding opening hours, intakes, pedagogical density and staffing, we believe that we can ensure more than today that public funds benefit the purpose and the kindergartens. It's our main focus on promoting the proposal we're making, and we think it's keeping a good balance in it. So it's not that we necessarily disagree with these points, but exactly this with dividends, we believe that there should be an opening, and no ban on it, but that we need to make more sure that the means we send from here benefit the kindergartens. Then it concerns the claim from Røe Isaksen that I have not followed along and I am wrong. It is written by the government itself that the proportion of managers and pedagogical leaders with approved pre-school teacher education was marginally reduced from 2015 to 2016. It must be said that money has been spent with effect from time to time, but the point here is that on the Council of State's watch, the proportion is falling, and the Council of State should be concerned that developments have gone in the wrong direction in the last year. And that's exactly what we're concerned about here, that when the Storting has repeatedly asked you to strengthen the standard of manning, to ensure more pedagogues, and to assess a requirement of 50 pst. This is what the debate here is about in many ways: how do we ensure that the government grant benefits the kindergartens and strengthens the quality of kindergartens, and there are no good answers for the councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e610	I'm sorry I used an old last name. I'm going with the representative of Grande's private life, because he's been so wise to pick up a new companion from Telemark. Now I must honestly admit that I was terribly confused. If you look at the number of kindergarten teachers, dispensations, the number of qualified kindergarten teachers we lack, that arrow goes in one direction, and it's in the right direction. It's not like the cooperation parties and the majority on the Stortinget have put in money in time. From the fall, there are 400 million in there. kr following the budgetary agreement in the autumn. It was relatively well published, but now I understand that both the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left must do even more to communicate themselves to the representatives in this room that the pedagogical rate in Norwegian kindergartens does not increase in five years or three years, but the money is in from the fall of. We will also send out as soon as possible the binding of this money that all municipalities have been told, namely that the ped share, the requirement for how many kindergarten teachers you need, goes up, and that applies to both private and municipal kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e623	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e639	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity be given for the replacement of a line limited to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e648	We are now discussing a proposal for a representative, supported by the representatives of Trine Skei Grande and Iselin Nybø, from the Left, in which they promote twelve measures to promote equality in four different areas. Firstly, three measures aimed at children and young people are promoted. Secondly, five measures on working life and pay differentials are promoted. Thirdly, an action focusing on minority women is promoted here to countries. Finally, three measures are promoted for a more feminist foreign policy. The Minister for Children and Gender Equality, Solvency Horne, has sent a written assessment of this draft representative and comments on each of the twelve measures proposed in the proposal. I think that the Council of State could give a little clearer indication of how this proposal for a representative can contribute to further strengthening the government's equality policy in these areas, and which is not as much covered by the gender equality communication, as we did in the Stortinget in 2016. There is a rather broad consensus within the Committee on this proposal for a representative. It is also evident when a joint committee is promoting seven of these proposals as Roma proposals in the Chamber today. In addition, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party promote two of the proposals. There is a need to show that, in the context of the big business news we discussed in 2016, more than 80 concrete actions were promoted – from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, together with the other opposition parties – to increase equality in a number of societal areas. Many of the proposals promoted by the Left in this proposal for a representative were fully or partly covered in the proposals that the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party promoted together with the rest of the opposition when we had the message for consideration. Therefore, we will not repeat all the proposals that were made in the communication, but rather refer to the comments that were written at the time – trying to achieve a more offensive gender equality policy – as well as the concrete proposals that were promoted in the Innst. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The Christian People's Party believes that the work for increased equality must be intensified. We therefore support the intention of the draft representative. We will also support the concrete proposals for decisions, as they stand in the vote, as well as the two proposals that the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party are promoting together. I would like to remind you that, with the consideration of this proposal for a representative, it is not that we have completed equality policies during this process of enlargement. We now have two major proposals for consideration in the Committee, which are based on both structure and legislative work. So getting the opportunity to be even more offensive in the field of equality has this committee and this magnificence great opportunity when we're going to deal with these two propositions. The last battle in this hall in terms of equality has not stood. I think we're going to get good debates also related to the two propositions that we're going to deal with later. I take up the suggestions that the Christian People's Party is involved and promotes in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e667	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e672	I want to start my speech by thanking the opposition on the Stortinget, including the Left today, to help propose concrete and good proposals for gender equality promotion, and to be impatient on behalf of the gender equality country of Norway. We are many in this room who want more than the Right and the Advance Party. The government presented its gender equality message in 2016, which did not contain measures that could take equality further, but which clearly showed that we have a government that has, on the contrary, put equality in reverses in a number of areas. In response to the gender mainstreaming Communication, the opposition to the Stortinget promoted over 80 concrete proposals to increase equality in a number of societal areas. Many of the proposals proposed by the Left today were fully or partially covered during the examination of the notification. I'm glad we have a forward-looking opposition on Stortinget. But we have a challenge. We know that women top part-time statistics, and we know that women have consistently lower wages, lower occupational pensions, work more temporarily than men and continue to have primary responsibility for care. In addition, men clearly top the statistics on leadership positions. In addition to this, we have a government that wants to scrape the Equality Act. Understand the one who can. This law has been and is an important tool for gender equality. The law has been and is of great social importance. If we were to find in Norway a law that compares to the US brand of racial discrimination law, it is precisely the equality law. People from all over the world elected and socially involved look to Norway and to our equality law. This will be liquidated by the Right Party and the Advance Party. Gender equality in Norway is not achieved. There are still many examples of individual and structural discrimination. More proposals are needed than the 80 from the opposition on the Stortinget. There is a need for fewer bad proposals from the Right-Fremskritsparte government. I want to go as far as calling it old-fashioned policy, the policy of government for equality between women and men. Finally, I would like to draw the President's attention to the fact that the proposals are No. 4-6, from the Left, which is promoted later in the debate, we will vote against. Proposal No. 6 is a proposal that clearly violates the principle of the principle of the formation of wages and salaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e687	We have recently discussed equality in open debate in this Chamber, and I feel that we are familiar with each other's political positions. In addition, we will have ample opportunity to discuss the new Discrimination Act when it comes to Stortinget. In this case, I would therefore like to pay close attention to thanking the proposals from the Left for a very good proposal. The Right Party and the Progressive Party are in the position of the Committee on the Roma proposals and will therefore vote in favour of them. In addition, we want to vote in favour of proposal No. 4 and 5, which we mean is to help women become entrepreneurs. It's the Right Party and the Advance Party. But in the case of proposal No. 6, from the left, we believe that this must be up to the social partners. Of course, the minority proposals in the vote will not be supported. We do not think it is necessary to have a new action plan for equal opportunities in kindergarten and primary education, as working with gender equality came out in the Kindergarten Act and also in the new framework plan – it is very clear there. The curriculum in primary school — at school — is also clear on this. With regard to the demands that you want to impose on businesses, we want to eliminate time-consuming and bureaucratic burdens on business, and we will not be in favour of introducing more.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e698	I want to find out about the vote of the Centre Party in this matter. We are going to support the Committee's recommendation for Decisions I to VIII, but I have a comment on proposal II, to carry out an evaluation of the parental leave scheme in order to identify the extent to which today's system promotes equality and guarantees equal parenthood. We're going to support an evaluation of her, but I need to remind you that we have the parental leave scheme, not primarily to ensure equality, but to make good arrangements for the newborn child and the family of the child. Ideally, an evaluation should also look at how this improves the health of the child in the first year of life, for example. What it means to make it easier to breast-feed your child. But we support the proposal, and I have now made an oral observation that it should ideally be a broader evaluation and not just an evaluation of the gender dimension. So to proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. In the case of proposal No: 1, to ask the government to develop a new action plan for equal opportunities in kindergarten and primary education, which will also include SFOs and activity schools, the Centre Party will not support it. Our reason for this is that we support the proposal for Decision I, that a Norwegian public selection should be set down to look at the kind of equality challenges children face in different arenas. Then we think it's too early to ask for an action plan for this now. When we get a decision on a NOW, we get to wait for it and see what advice and challenges are coming there, and then we get to ask for an action plan if we think it is necessary. Proposal No. 2, from the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party, to demand that enterprises with more than 50 employees should publish average earnings for men and women in the annual report, is a proposal we have discussed. We're afraid it might seem bureaucratic. Businesses with 50 added can be quite small. In any case, we want it to be annual, and we have submitted an alternative proposal – a loose proposal in the Chamber – with a modified wording, in which we ask the government to assess whether companies with at least 50 annual works have to publish the average payroll for men and women in the annual report. Otherwise, we will vote against the proposals tabled by the Left, i.e. the proposal No. 4, 5 and 6, and then I'll take up the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e709	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e714	It actually feels a little special that we are going to deal with this proposal right now. For what happened last night in Manchester, I think is about an attack on young girls who are growing a teenage dol on the stage, and who are using the freedom equality has been a part of giving us. That's why it's a little special to do it right today, I think. It's just the values that were attacked with the terror tonight. Because it is so essential that all people have equal rights and opportunities to exploit their abilities and their lives. Basically, equality is about freedom of navigation – in any case. Therefore, the Left wanted to develop further all the proposals contained in the message, and now two pieces have said in the pulpit that these are the same proposals that were promoted last. I find no one, when I've gone through all 44 that's here, one more time, that was promoted the last time. In fact, we tried to further develop what was being worked on when we worked with the Storing Message. One of the things we found out then is that children fall between all the positions in terms of gender equality. It is not part of the responsibility of the gender equality ombudsman, and it is not part of the responsibilities of the child ombudsman. I think we have a negative development right now with more and more gender-based childhood, and that you're not aware enough of what it does with equality later in life that kids get so different starting points. The second point left has been very busy, is equal pay. Here it is interesting to look at the difference between the Swedish gender equality debate, where gender equality policy is much stronger on the agenda than it has actually done in Norwegian policy, and the Norwegian debate. In the Swedish debate, the founding of the company, the possibility of innovation in the public sector, the possibility of starting up in the public sector have been an important part of the fight for equal pay and the fight for the development of better pay for women. We believe that this is a good tool, and that is why we have raised it in this matter. Then I've been contacted by more people who experience how their freedom is restricted by honour cultures. Combating honour cultures is not a simple political project with simple decisions and simple laws. We in Norway also had strong honour cultures a thousand years ago, and you'll find it again in small fragments of Norwegian culture. But we see that combating it is important to do with dialogue, and that maybe you create arenas to just lift that kind of debate. So this is an idea that has come to my office from girls and boys in several immigrant environments who have wanted an arena just to discuss this. We need knowledge and much more awareness about it. So it has become clearer to me, and certainly to many others in the Chamber, that having a feminist foreign policy means combating exactly the alliance that we are now seeing emerging in the Trump-Vatican Alliance, the Eastern Church and Eastern Europe together with the Muslim countries, which forms an alliance against women's rights. The alliance of strong churches combined with strong Muslim countries means that we must stand up for the values we have fought in our culture. It is therefore important to support initiatives such as She Decides and to ensure women's rights that are also challenged in Europe. Norway has to be in the front line here, and we have to be because we've been historically. It was the Left who had the first female party leader. She was also the mother of Norwegian gender equality legislation and was the first gender equality agency in Norway. I think we need to raise the gender equality policy more in the future, because we see that sometimes it's extra provocative with young girls who grow a teensidol on stage. Then it's important that we stand up for our rights here. Then I just have a little comment for Kjersti Toppe. What I thought would have been interesting, and the reason why we've promoted the proposal – and I'm really glad that we're getting so much support today – is about what mechanisms it actually is that work, and which determines what distribution the parental leave gets. For example, the Left has been skeptical that Nav has as its starting point that mother should have everything. We might have had a hub that had a different starting point, and then it might also have other effects. I'm finally taking up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e735	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e740	Gender and power are hanging together, and the goal of an equal society means that you have to go systematically to work to break down barriers and the structures that may not be seen, but are noticed, and that make boys place as boys, that girls are placed as girls, that gender roles are reproduced, and that the small difference becomes great when it comes to the piece. It happens through an active gender equality policy, through courageous proposals, and by daring to challenge the power of a society. It's absolutely necessary because there's attitudes and actions that make boys and girls restrict their everyday lives early, depending on whether you're being fooled into a light blue or a pink carpet, and that follow us later in life through expectations of how we're going to be like boys and girls. We all know that it's considered a little feminine to dangle your fist in the table and say that you're worth a higher salary, and we all know that it's considered a little masculine to show care, love and warmth. Fortunately, there are changes, but these changes do not come about by themselves. Therefore, it is positive that proposals are now being made for an action plan on gender equality in kindergarten and primary education — where children live a large part of their lives. SV supports the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party's proposal on this. The fight for equality is also about the fight for economic liberation. You don't have a free life with real options if you can't stand on your own and have the opportunity to make choices that you decide. That's why the issue of salary, wage development and transparency around it is very important. SV also supports the second proposal related to it, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. A critical look at wage developments between women and men is also about correcting and taking action and contributing to an active pressure in one direction. But we do not support the Left's proposal, despite the fact that we want a binding equal pay plan in all public enterprises, as well as ensuring income through permanent and full positions. There we see that the right-hand side and the left-hand side distinguish layers, in terms of predictability and the need to be economically independent as women, and that it is also essential in gender equality policy to have a labour market policy that adds to it. Nor do we support the Left's proposal No. Four and five. It's about what you think should be the public's task, and what shouldn't be. It's the subject of social struggle and ideological struggle, and it's a debate that we also got really hot on instead. SV does not see – as the government does – that increasing market access and privatisation and promoting such policies in the public sector have to do with equality. On the contrary, vulnerable groups, whose purpose is completely different from profit, are subject to speculation and market mechanisms. It's a development we want to reverse and fight – not back up below. SV supports the proposals for decisions in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e754	I want to thank you for the debate so far, and thank you to Trine Skei Grande for reminding us of what equality is. Equality is freedom to be oneself, and it's important because everyone is equally worth it. Like the Committee, the government is very concerned about equality between women and men. I would like to thank the proposers for putting this important social issue on the agenda and for promoting good proposals to pursue gender equality policy. As it emerges from the committee position, most of the proposals are in agreement. I think that's positive. In many of the areas to which the proposals relate, good government work is already under way. I want to remind the Storting that, for the first time in 18 years, it was just three weeks ago that an equality policy statement was made, and we also had a good debate after it. It was a good opportunity to look back and look forward. We should not forget that Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. Never have so few women worked part-time and so many full-time jobs. From 2015 to 2016, the difference between male and female earnings has decreased. There are 22,000 more female leaders in 2016 than when we took over in 2013. Women and men have equal rights, but we also know that after decades of gender equality policy, we still have problems that have not been solved. The government has put forward proposals for common equality and discrimination laws in our country. I want to remind Stortinget – just to correct a mistake by the representative Haukeland Liadal here in the debate – that this government has not broken the equality law. The Equality Act has been renamed, it is now called the Equality and Discrimination Act. In the new Equality and Discrimination Act, we continue and strengthen the strong protection against discrimination on the basis of gender. In particular, the law should aim at improving the position of women. We suggest that schools be given a clearer obligation to build on equality, not only in textbooks, but also in education. And for the first time it's going to have economic consequences to discriminate. It's a historic milestone. This government presented a gender equality message that was unanimously adopted in Stortinget in the spring of 2016. The Communication addressed a number of societal areas in which we have challenges, with nearly 70 different efforts. It is not true that the Stortinge has adopted 80 new proposals from the opposition, but there were 14 request decisions that were given to the majority and that the government is now following up in the usual way. There are several public investigations that address gender issues that children face, but we lack a more comprehensive and thorough review. That is why I am pleased with the committee's proposal for a sample, and I will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way on that matter. Such work could be important for the knowledge base and for further policy development. The proposers stress the importance of balancing the gender pay gap and the importance of innovation and entrepreneurial activity to achieve this. We have discussed with the main social organisations how we can reduce pay differentials. We have also, together with the cooperation parties, invested in entrepreneurs from day one. In 2015, we presented our founding plan, with over 400 million. additional to the founding measures that are now being implemented. The jobs of the future will be created by people who dare to take a chance, and who put their own skills, ideas and resources into action, and we have several good entrepreneurs who establish and develop tomorrow's jobs. A competitive business must recruit candidates from all over the population, and therefore the government wants to facilitate more women entrepreneurs. Proposals highlight the importance of women’s rights and equality as a priority part of Norwegian foreign policy. I fully agree with what the representative Skei Grande said, that there are certain things that are under pressure now. It is therefore important that, in particular, what is going on in sexual and reproductive health — in which the government has an active role — now has an increase in the budget of 32 million. kr. With this, the increase is now going to be over 177 million. Compared to 2016. It's a priority area. The government has presented several action plans which show that women and gender equality are an active part of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e782	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e787	The paper commission was cut by the Right-Fremskritspart-government, the Working Environment Act was quickly weakened by the Right-Fremskritspart-government, kindergartens have become more expensive with the Right-Fremskritspart-government. Two years were spent providing a gender equality message, without concrete action to promote gender equality. More than 80 proposals have been submitted to the Council of State by the opposition at Stortinget. They have not been given a majority for them, agree, but what does the Council of State think that, with her policy, she is set on the sidelines in relation to the opposition's willingness to propose many dozens of new proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e792	I'm proud of the government's equality policy and what we've been able to do in this field. I'm recording that once again the Workers' Party uses the same arguments that they've been making for four years, they're bringing out the Dad's quota. Equality is about more than four weeks' spring quota, and it has been a value for this government and the cooperation parties to give the families flexibility and freedom of choice in terms of parental leave. After decades of gender equality policy, we still have challenges. They were addressed in the gender equality message presented by the government, which was debated last year, with over 70 proposals adopted unanimously in the Stortinget. 14 of the 80 proposals to which the representative refers also received a majority. I believe that this big business has good ideas to take equality further, but equality policy is not something that the government and the state can do alone. We need to cooperate both with municipalities and with employers' organisations, and there are also many good proposals that the government is following up on. It is a good job – in cooperation with both the magnificence and government – that is being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e803	I thank you for your answer. I'm glad the Council of State admits that we still have challenges in this area. Nevertheless, there has been a decrease in the amount of money allocated to measures to combat part-time employment, a decrease in the amount of money allocated to equality centres, and a decrease in the amount of money allocated to organisations working for increased equality in the country. In her previous reply, the Council of State insisted that she was proud of the measures she had taken. I would like to ask: What three measures is the Council of State most proud that she has put in place to promote gender equality in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e810	Now it's not like I'm standing here and admitting that we have challenges. I'm very aware that we have challenges, and that's why the government put forward the gender equality message, where we focused on the challenges that are in the field of violence, in the workplace, in education and in business. I would like to stress that the organisations have not been cut off in their budgets, and that the equality centres have been increased in their budgetary terms with the Left and Christian People's Party. However, gender equality does not depend only on bureaucracy and gender equality centres; there are active policies in the areas of government that consider these to be challenges. I want to figure out three things. We know that violence in close relationships and violence against women is the greatest challenge of equality we have. The government's commitment in this area is important in order to overcome violence in close relations. The work that the government has done in collaboration with the NHO and the colleges in the field of girls and technology – we know that we need more girls in the technology field – I also want to draw up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e819	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e839	The Kashmir conflict has been a serious, unresolved conflict in the world since 1947, when British India became independent and divided into two countries, India and Pakistan. There have been many and serious consequences. Let me highlight three things about this conflict. The conflict makes the area highly militarized and creates a risk of war between India and Pakistan. Since the beginning of the conflict, there have been three serious wars – first a two-year war, which broke out in 1947. Then followed a new war in 1965. And in 1999, India fought a third war against Pakistani armed groups. Today there is a risk that a war may escalate to a regional disaster, since both India and Pakistan have become nuclear powers. Secondly, the conflict has serious regional consequences. He makes the resolution of other conflicts in the region difficult. This applies, for example: Afghanistan conflict. Both India and Pakistan are needed as constructive partners in the stabilisation and peace process. Doubts about the motive for others make it difficult. Thirdly, this conflict has serious consequences for the population in the region. The local population – especially in the Indian-controlled part of Kashmir – is faced with a day-to-day impact of unnecessarily selected, suffering and lost development opportunities. I've been following the Kashmir conflict for a few years. A time grew optimism. After years of bloody collapsing along the line of arms, which is officially called the ‘control line’, India and Pakistan actually entered a truce in 2003. It gave hope for peaceful times. Sometime later, Pakistan promised to stop financing armed insurgents in the area, while India, on its side, added the amnesty if they renounced armed struggle. Negotiations between India and Pakistan at a superior level resulted in several positive, confidence-building actions. But after the terrorist attack in Mumbai in November 2008, these negotiations were frozen. As Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre said in a reply to me in 2010: This terrorist attack was planned and carried out from Pakistani territory and was related to groups that have operated out of Kashmir. New attempts were made to improve relations, but in 2014 the hesitater stopped. A new Indian government made a tougher line against Pakistan, unfortunately. Today's situation creates enormous frustration. The fourth year – 2016 – was marked by a bloody summer. Historical street protesters filled the Indian-controlled part of Kashmir for months after the popular 22-year-old activist Burhan Wani was killed in an exchange of shots with Indian soldiers in July. Last September, a heavily armed group attacked an Indian military base. Nineteen soldiers were killed – before the attackers themselves were killed. India blamed a Pakistan-based armed group for the attack, and the Indian army responded with several raids across the border of the Pakistani-controlled part of Kashmir. In April of this year, Indian authorities tried to hold elections in the part of Kashmir that they control. It went very bad. The BBC report had the following title: The choice where no one came to vote. Instead, the separatists challenge the boycott of the choice, and demonstrators attack around 150 polls. The frustration is enormous. Only 709 votes in favour, 2 pst. Nor does it help that Indian authorities in practice have closed the Internet in the areas they control in Kashmir – indeed more than 30 times since 2012. Social media is used by frustrated cashmers to disseminate information and organize demonstrations. Indian authorities replied at the end of April with new restrictions. This time they notify one month of shutting down access to social media, including Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp. Forbidden debt still. That doesn't make sense. The Kashmir conflict is not just an accident for the local population, it is also a threat to world peace. The conflict has led to wars several times before. It could happen again. Three nuclear powers are involved: India, Pakistan – and China. All three today administer parts of Kashmir. The Kashmir conflict has now lasted nearly 70 years. We can't just sit and wait for another 70 years. This could end with a disaster. In January, the unresolved conflict in Kashmir was raised in the British Parliament. Then the main questions were the following: Firstly, the fourth year provided for the escalation of acts of violence and human rights violations in the Indian-controlled part of Kashmir. Can the government do anything to raise this situation in the United Nations? it was asked in the British Parliament. Secondly, what can the British Government do to encourage Pakistan and India to negotiate a lasting solution to the Kashmir conflict, preferably based on the right of local people to decide their own future, in accordance with previous UN Security Council resolutions? I would like to underline the last point: a solution to the Kashmir conflict must not be just a compromise between the great powers it reaches. A good solution must preferably be based on the right of the local population to decide on their own future. The UN's previous resolutions also stress this point. Today, I raise the Kashmir conflict in the Storting. What can Norway do? What can Norway's Foreign Minister do to improve the everyday situation of those living in this conflict-filled area? What can we do to strengthen compliance with human rights? What can we do to facilitate communication between people, across the control line, so that families can keep in touch with layers? And what can we do to get the parties to the negotiating table, to see if they can find a lasting peace solution, preferably based on the preferences of the local people? The Kashmir conflict is a threat to international security. World society needs to become more committed to finding a solution. Norway may, preferably in cooperation with the EU, the United States and other countries, examine whether the UN or other international forums can take initiatives to reduce the level of power and conflict, strengthen the human rights situation, improve economic and social development and lay the basis for a peace process. Norway has a long experience in working for peace and reconciliation in difficult conflicts, but we can do little if the parties themselves do not want such a peacemaking welcome. Has the Minister of Foreign Affairs been testing the situation with the parties? What strategies does the Minister for Foreign Affairs consider the most appropriate, and what initiative will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take to bring the parties into a process that will provide a peaceful solution to the conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e896	The inter-pellant's concern is, in reality, two issues. One is the territorial conflict between India and Pakistan. The second is political unrest in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir. To understand the territorial conflict, it is always wise to go back in time. Winston Churchill once said, "The father backward you can look, the father forward you are probably to see". It will probably be something like that the longer back in time you can see, the more insight you have about the future – a little freely translated. After India’s independence and the establishment of Pakistan in 1947, both countries demanded Kashmir. War broke out when armed Pakistani groups tried to take control of the territory and the Maharaja of Kashmir signed an agreement to integrate Kashmir into India. 70 years later, the conflict remains unresolved. The two states are both nuclear powers, which the interpellant also struck. The areas along the dividing line are heavily militarized. Thousands of people have lost their lives in beatings and in riots, terror and separatist motivated violence. New attacks have continued to interrupt attempts at dialogue. However, we should remember that the parties to the 1972 Simla Agreement stated a general obligation to settle between themselves by peaceful means and through bilateral negotiations. This overall agreement shows that there has been a willingness to negotiate in both countries. At some point they were also close to a new and more comprehensive agreement for Kashmir. Regrettably, the situation at that time was not conducive to finalisation. The international commitment must therefore be the starting point for getting the parties back to the negotiating table, as the Simla agreement actually provides the basis. In India, the situation in Jammu and Kashmir is difficult. 96 pst. by the inhabitants of the Kashmir Valley are Muslims. Many want increased autonomy or independence. In the 1990s, Pakistan-backed militant organisations grew. These carried out attacks in Indian Kashmir. Foreign fighters also received training in Pakistan before being swept over to the Indian side. India responded by deploying hundreds of thousands of security forces in the state. As a result of the unrest, India introduced a derogation legislation providing the army and paramilitary forces with extended powers. Any abuses which Indians may commit against civilians cannot under this legislation be investigated by civil authorities, only by military forces. 2016 was a conflict. Indian security forces killed an armed separatist leader last summer, resulting in extensive violent demonstrations. Several demonstrators must have been armed. In the clashes between rock-throwing demonstrators and the security forces, many were killed and injured. Indian security forces also suffered losses. There is growing concern that emerging anti-Indian attitudes among new generations of Kashmiri are more motivated than before by radical Islamist ideology. How this will develop in the future is difficult to say. The trend is worrying Indian central authorities, who are accusing Pakistan of whipping up the mood. India claims that Pakistan is funding and supporting terrorist groups sent into India, and that Pakistan is not doing enough to stop terrorist groups in Pakistan. In the Mumbai terrorist attacks in 2008, over 170 people were killed. The Indian Parliament was attacked in 2001. The current crisis was triggered by an attack on an Indian airbase near the margin line last January. In September, 17 Indian soldiers were killed when a terrorist group attacked an Indian brigade headquarters. Just a few weeks ago, two Indian soldiers were shot and beheaded. The Indian authorities claim that regular Pakistani forces were behind this, which the Pakistani authorities strongly deny. Norway is concerned about the development of Kashmir and the conflict between India and Pakistan. India has a right to defend itself against armed attacks and attacks that are to be regarded as international terrorism. Pakistan's obligations to control its own territory and to ensure that its territory is not used for the planning and training of terrorist groups. Pakistan must take control of the border in order to prevent armed groups from moving to India. In India, it is very difficult to initiate dialogue and convergence as long as Pakistan does not do its utmost to stop the attacks inside India. On the other hand, a large number of deaths and injuries give reason to ask whether Indian security forces use methods that are proportional to the threat picture and whether fundamental human rights considerations are respected, which was also addressed by the interpellant. On my visits to the region, both in Pakistan and India, I have had open, demanding, but good conversations on both sides of the border, where, not least, relations between neighbouring countries are high on the agenda. Pakistani authorities recognise that Islamist terrorism and radicalisation are a problem for Pakistan. We share Indian security concerns related to cross-border attacks. At the same time, India is aware that we are concerned about the human rights situation in Kashmir. Long-term state of emergency cannot be said to be compatible with creating trust and stability. Therefore, in the context of India’s review of the UN Human Rights Council earlier this year, Norway invited India to assess the lifting of the state of emergency. Pakistan has repeatedly expressed a desire for third-party mediation and multilateral involvement. India has made it clear that this is a bilateral conflict, where the solution must be found between the two countries. All proposals for solutions in multilateral channels and for mediation are rejected. Norway is sometimes asked if we can play a role in resolving the conflict between India and Pakistan. That's not the point. We only go into such a role when both parties ask us to do so. That is not the case in this case. The reason why, for example: In the peace negotiations in Colombia, both the FARC guerrilla and the Colombian government wanted us as peace brokers. The embassy in New Delhi has recently visited Kashmir. The unison feedback from key actors is that the problem remains political. The only way to find a solution is dialogue within Kashmir and between India and Pakistan. Only constructive dialogue and negotiation will lead to a solution to the border conflict. Meanwhile, both India and Pakistan are obliged to show respect for human rights and international obligations. This is a responsibility we expect them to add up to. Norway is able to see this case from both sides, and we know that to get a peaceful solution to the situation in Kashmir, it requires flexibility on both sides. This is incredibly important to underline. I believe that both countries have a responsibility to contribute to this, so that no more lives are lost in a conflict that has been far too long, and where those who really lose it are civilians in Kashmir and the growing generation, who do not have the same opportunities as other young people, neither in Pakistan nor in India.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e934	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply and for his contribution to a debate on precisely this conflict in Stortinget, our Parliament. If there's something I want to say that sums up the Kashmir conflict, it's the forgotten conflict in the world right now. The Foreign Minister is very concerned about what we are experiencing, because it is an area in which human rights do not have the respect that they need, where we experience power and security, and we also feel that this is a conflict that has consequences beyond the Kashmir area, because it is involved in having regional consequences, and there are also nuclear powers involved. As I said in my post, I have experienced that the change of government in India in 2014 has unfortunately led to a clearer and more aggressive line against Pakistan. My concern is what the Foreign Minister points out, that this contributes to the embodiment of new generations in Kashmir. Instead of building bridges, we actually build walls between new generations. That is why I think the main job must be to get the parties back to the negotiating table. Everyone is lit with a peaceful solution. I understand that the Foreign Minister says that it is not appropriate for Norway to contribute until the parties want to contribute to a solution. It's hard to understand that being involved and ensuring a solution without the parties wanting to do so. But then I think it's all the more important that Norway, together with the United States, the United Kingdom and the United Nations can put pressure on both sides to sit down and find solutions. I'm glad Norway has taken up directly with India that having an exceptional state in this area is unacceptable. I think that exactly that kind of pressure and that kind of dialogue is very important. Therefore, I would like one of the conclusions of this debate to be that Norway, together with other countries, is forced to contribute to a stronger pressure on both sides to sit down. It is the only way we know how to create a peaceful and lasting solution in Kashmir. That's what we all want.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e947	I agree with the last point of the interpellant that we, together with other countries, have to increase the pressure on both India and Pakistan so that they can resume what was the 1972 Simla process. There has been too much time without real progress, even though there were some positive signals along the way. The two countries need to find a common way out of this conflict – they are both losers as they are now. I also agree with the representative that with all that is now happening in conflicts around the world, this is the forgotten conflict. At the same time, it's one of the most dangerous boundaries in the world. Perhaps after North Korea and South Korea, this is the most dangerous border area. It is based on the fact that both of these two countries have nuclear weapons, there is a strong military force in both countries, and they are ‘lined up’ in this dangerous area. We from Norway have a very good relationship with both Pakistan and India – there are two countries with which we work very closely and have good diplomatic relations. It will therefore be important for us in all the discussions we have with these two countries to take every opportunity to recall the importance of finding good solutions. The limited space for action of international actors does not mean that we cannot engage. Our good relationship – as I said – to both countries actually provides Norway with a good platform to encourage the parties to approach each other. Then I must also say that India and Pakistan are both responsible for respecting the human rights of the people of the respective parts of Kashmir. In the country review of India that I mentioned, called the Universal Periodic Review, it was made clear to India from the Norwegian side that it is expected that the recommendations made during this country review will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e958	Thank you to Knut Arild Hareide, who raised a conflict that should be remembered, also in today's media situation, and who therefore needs help to do so, and to the Foreign Minister for his thorough answers. Just a few months ago, I had the pleasure of conducting a seminar here at Stortinget. The two main initiators in that context were very interesting, not least in relation to today's interplay, for the two were Sardar Masod Khan, the 27th President of the Azad State of Jammu & Kashmir, and Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, a recognised global leader and ambassador for peace. The theme was peace and peace building, and no wonder the Kashmir conflict was just an example. It is a fact that the historical conflict over the territory between India and Pakistan, the Kashmir conflict, is unfortunately still a living conflict. I agree with the inter-pellant that the world community must engage more strongly in order to find a solution here, as in other conflicts with the greatest possible consequences and implications. It is such that violent conflicts are increasing in number and extent. The humanitarian consequences are great, and people are forced to flee in very many cases. Human rights are suffering. Preventing war and conflict must be the main focus of responsible countries and parties around the world, and the Norwegian government has this very high on its agenda. The government has just pointed out and signaled an intensified bet, and in Meld. Art. No. 36 for 2016-2017, The choices in foreign and security policy, which we deal with these days, are one of the following: ‘Contribute to the maintenance and further development of the international legal order and the strengthening of the UN and other international institutions. Work to promote human rights, the rule of law and democracy. Responding to serious violations of international law.’ But it is that international driving rules are under pressure today, and small geographical conflicts in a modern world have a potential far beyond their limits. ‘The limited space for action of international actors does not mean that we cannot engage,’ said the Minister for Foreign Affairs just now, and I agree with him. And that's also the case, as he said, that both India and Pakistan themselves are responsible for respecting the human rights of the people of the respective parts of Kashmir. Some of the keys to a solution to the Kashmir question can be in just economic and regional integration. The area from Kashmir up to Afghanistan was once an important stage on the Silk Road. Today, unrest and conflict lead to infrastructure and trade being excluded. As we know, China is working today for the concept of the new silk road, precisely to increase trade and economic and regional integration along the entire globe's belt, from China to Europe. Reciprocal needs for economic development will, hopefully, in the future thwart border conflicts and unfriendliness between India and Pakistan, and also between Pakistan and Afghanistan. The world can play a role in encouraging closer regional economic cooperation. It will create development and increased stability on both sides of the border. Hopefully, the parties will eventually see that this is a win-win situation for all countries, and not least for the benefit of the population in the area. Lasting and sustainable peace can only be achieved through political solutions. That is, people have to go back to the negotiating table and the conversation. A conversation is something other than a monologue, it requires two or more interlocutors. Norway, now last in Colombia, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs just pointed to, has shown that we are good at getting people to talk to solutions when they first want to sit down and talk. It has to be a willingness to find a solution. That must be our clear expectation of the two states of Pakistan and India. Expressing that expectation, as I was also given the occasion in this dialogue that took place at the Stortingen last autumn, should be our main call to the parties to this conflict between these two countries. That is why the inter-pellant initiative was good, and therefore the foreign minister's response was so good.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e978	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing such an important issue about a conflict that is often forgotten. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough account of the conflict and how complex it is. The main task of any politician must be the security of the citizens. Often we talk about security in this way when we talk about security for our own citizens in our own country, and then it must be very dramatic for the two countries to witness that up to 100,000 people have been reported to have lost their lives in this conflict so far. Foreign policy has many main tasks. Can a nation create peace in the world, resolve a conflict, make the parties meet for dialogue that solves gangs, put down weapons? I don't think anything else feels better for a nation – and a foreign minister on guard – when it happens. Colombia is Norway’s last example, but it is far from Norway’s only, fortunately. Fortunately, Norway means a lot internationally. Fortunately, Norwegian politicians and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are concerned about peace in the world, and fortunately our agents in embassies and special agents are able to create peace and are well protected for that work. Norway feels a sense of responsibility and Norway takes international responsibility. That is positive, and I hope the Foreign Minister and the U.D. will continue to do so. The Kashmir conflict is a bad conflict that has been going on for too long. It has caused enormous suffering to the people of Kashmir. It also feels on the body too many Northmen with backgrounds from the two countries involved. Pakistanis in Norway account for about 40,000 people, and there are about 10,000 with Indian background in Norway. Some of them are here at the gallery. I know that very many of these 50,000 people in Norway are following this conflict closely. They hope that the international community will help resolve the conflict. Many of us have a complex background. My own father immigrated from Pakistan, but he was born in Jabalpur in the state of Madhya Pradesh in India, where he attended Catholic school until he was ten years old. My grandfather also worked in India, in the British military. I have visited Pakistan myself on several occasions, and I have also had the pleasure of working for the Norwegian State at the Norwegian Embassy in New Dehli. In this way, I have traveled in large parts of Pakistan and in large parts of India – also in the northern regions. What strikes me most on these journeys is the mutual love that people have for each other on both sides of the border. And everyone has a story to tell about relatives or other acquaintances on the other side of the border. Those with Pakistani backgrounds grow up with Bollywood films and Indian music, and they have common reference frameworks back to films in the 1970s and 1980s, not least the new ones coming. When I traveled to India, I was a little anxious about how my background was going to turn out. It's a natural question, where do you come from? And I had to explain this. But to my great surprise, it went completely non-scrupulous – no one cared about it. On the contrary, it was considered positive. On my first visit to a local patio, there was a cricket fight that went between Pakistan and another western country. I was a little shocked, because the Indians at this patio were cheered up on Pakistan! I thought you'd cheer up in the other country. But then they said, unless they play against India, we're always on Pakistan. That's because we have a culture, a common reference framework with Pakistan. People in the two nations have a pretty good relationship with each other. I know that both Indians and Pakistanis in Norway want to go to these two countries and visit each other's country. But unfortunately, the visa rules on both sides make it difficult for the North with a background from India and Pakistan to visit the two countries. I understand that the Minister of Foreign Affairs cannot help solve the conflict down there with a keypress, but perhaps we can help to ensure that Norwegians who have Norwegian passports and who come from these two countries, but live in Norway, can travel there and visit each other's country. If you can't visit each other, you won't be able to have any dialogue or exchange of ideas, but if you can open up to a softer visa practice, I think you can get more approximation. I think Norway can do more. We don't have to decide where the limits are going. Norway does not have to choose sides, but it is very positive if Norway continues to show that we are willing to contribute, that we are motivated and available, that we are there – not primarily because of its citizens in Norway, who care deeply about resolving the conflict, but primarily because of a people who have suffered more than enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1001	Many of us are waking up today to the terrible news from Manchester. Unfortunately, we in Europe have also become accustomed to terrible terrorist attacks in our neighbourhood over the last few years. And there's something that also has the prega Kashmir area, with terrible terrorist acts of human life that have been lost. That's why I said in my introduction that now the Kashmir conflict has been 70 years. There are hundreds of thousands of lives that have been lost, and we cannot spend 70 years waiting for a peaceful solution – even because this could end with a disaster. That is why it is important – and we now see an escalation of the conflict – that international authorities and Norway are involved. I want to thank the representative Graham and the representative Raja for the wisdom and the commitment they made to give the debate. The Norwegian big business has just had a strong commitment around Kashmir, which I thought this debate is about to confirm, and it has been going on for decades. Then I am pleased with what the Foreign Minister says that Norway should already contribute today, through the dialogue and contact we have. And as the Foreign Minister himself said, Norway has a good relationship with Pakistan, Norway has a good relationship with India. This should allow Norway to also be a more active party in getting the parties to the negotiating table. For just what is paradoxical here is that this is a conflict that has gone over so long, and that we have seen so few initiatives to get a peaceful solution right here. As the Foreign Minister also pointed out as an example, Indian security authorities are, and that the type of instrument they are using today does not have any relation to what we experience in this matter. So I think the posts of the representative Raja are a good reminder of how important it is that a peace solution here be on the local people's premises. That's why I think Norway has to make a bigger effort. We must challenge the United States, it has been a debate in the British Parliament, and the United Nations must do more. And it could happen that this is just a prop to get the parties to the negotiating table, I think Norway has to act actively as a contributor who has experience with just this kind of conflict resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1012	I would like to thank the representative Hareide for addressing this very important matter as an interpellation. I also agree with what was said about the terrible terrorist act that was experienced last night in Manchester. It also illustrates what might come out of terror. We strongly condemn what was experienced in Manchester last night. I also thank you for what I experienced as a good debate. Unfortunately, the situation in Kashmir and the relationship between India and Pakistan remain a source of great concern. These are two nuclear powers, two powerful military forces, and much of the military capacity is actually set up in this border area. The international community must work actively against these two countries in order to put pressure on them so that they can continue where they left off in 1972 with the Simla agreement. But as long as they do not show the willingness to sit down and negotiate, there is, of course, limited room for action on the part of external actors in the case. We must exert pressure on them diplomatically by working with other countries, including in the United Nations, as the interpellant pointed out. But there is no doubt that the two parties are responsible – the responsibility of the civilian population in Kashmir for experiencing a very difficult everyday life, where, unfortunately, terror and violent extremism are part of their everyday lives. The work of a more peaceful world is a global common cause, and that is why we should also work to ensure that India-Pakistan relations are higher on the agenda in international fora in the future, so that this will not be enough of a conflict that develops to become even more serious. We see what the consequences of that might be. Seven years ago, Syria was an intermediate country. Today, Syria is a humanitarian disaster that we have not seen since World War II. It happens in the 21st century, and we haven't been able to create peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1023	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1039	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1048	I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation during the examination of Prop. 82 L, where the government proposes changes to the Road Law and the Road Traffic Act, on urban tolls. By 2050, the proportion of the population of Norway in urban areas will increase. It is an objective that this growth in passenger transport, which will be generated by increasing population growth, should be taken with bicycles, corridors and public transport, and that both urban areas and future transport systems should be designed in such a way that the emergence of both people, vehicles and goods continues to be good, even if we become more people. In addition, several urban areas are already struggling with local air pollution, for example. from the emissions from car traffic. Local air pollution causes health problems and impairs the quality of life for many. It is particularly related to particulate matter and nitrogen oxide. With this as a hindrance, as the rapporteur on the subject, I am very pleased that a unanimous committee is in favour of amendments to Section 27 of the Road Code. The proposals to amend Section 27 of the Road Act now allow urban areas to set flexible toll tariffs, based on e.g.: vehicle weight means fares which affect the choice of means of travel or which vary according to the time of day and according to the environmental characteristics of the various vehicles or similar. Furthermore, these flexible toll tariffs shall take full account of transport solutions in urban areas and the use of land or local environment shall lead to the design of the flexible tariffs. The proposed amendments to Section 27 of the Road Act continue to imply that toll systems in urban areas require the consent of the Stortinget, and the changes aim to simplify, continue and develop the schemes already in force today. The proposals also meet the wishes of cities and the need for a more flexible tariff system. As a consequence of the changes in Section 27 of the Road Code, a unanimous Transport Committee also supports the repeal of Section 7 of the Road Traffic Act. The Workers' Party, Right, Christian People's Party and the Centre's Party also assume that the proposals for amendments to Section 27 of the Road Traffic Act and Section 7a of the Road Traffic Act do not alter the established principle of the usefulness of toll collection. Tolls shall continue to be used for all measures permitted by the Road Act and may be used in addition for investments in fixed installations and installations for public transport by rail, including tramways and subways. As part of a plan for a comprehensive and coordinated transport system in an urban area, tolls may also be used for public transport operations. In addition, with the outlined amendments to Section 27 of the Road Law, these parties assume that the new amendments take on board important elements of what the current code of pricing would open up for in practice, for which the Committee is now in favour of removing. There is broad support for the proposals of the Hearing Officers. There are only a few who oppose the changes, and they suggest that toll collection and cow pricing should continue to be kept separate. In addition, there are some indications that today’s toll regime and user charges should be phased out in favour of a satellite road pricing system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1065	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough and good job. The aim of the proposal is to facilitate changes in the road law that allow urban areas in Norway to apply toll tariffs adapted to specific local needs. Toll tariffs may be based on the weight of the vehicle, fares which affect the choice of means of travel, or which vary from day to day and the environmental characteristics of the various vehicles, etc. It is an explicit objective to include the growth of urban passenger transport by bicycles, corridors and public transport and that the proposals contained in the proposal contribute to this objective. However, it is timely to recall that there are many other instruments that are also important for achieving the objectives: building up the collective offer – the government has provided the major urban areas with a significant hand count by covering 50 pst. of the investment costs of large public transport solutions in the major urban areas provide parking places for bicycles and cars from approved car-sharing schemes in connection with new residential projects; base low or zero emission standards on the purchase of new buses and scheduled boats work for the coordination of ticket systems by collective societies so that passengers can travel more easily; priority development of bicycle road networks in connection with the school road smart planning – building land use below the objective by planning dwellings and workplaces within a distance that makes it natural to go or cycle to work; ensure that public transport can be an attractive alternative to car between accommodation and work or leisure activities; This matter is one of several issues where the issue of driving pricing, road pricing and differentiated rates according to the climate pressure of the vehicles etc. is theme. The main changes are: the Ministry may lay down specific arrangements for tolls in urban areas adapted to the specific needs of cities: cow pricing, differentiated rates according to environmental characteristics, etc. that, within the existing tolling arrangements in urban areas, the Ministry may fix temporary toll tariffs for use for limited periods on days of heavy air pollution I would like to emphasise the importance of the utility principle when choosing toll collection as a method of financing. It implies that there is a link between payment and benefit. This means that the person who pays tolls will also benefit from the action(s) that the funds are used to finance. Furthermore, today’s practice implies that the beneficiary of projects financed by tolls must also be involved in and pay. Population growth forecasts up to 2050 indicate an increase in the population in urban areas. This will have a major impact on the design of transport systems and on the allocation of land. It will be an important task to ensure good accessibility and good urban environments in this work. Today, several urban areas face local air pollution challenges, where emissions from car traffic, together with refuelling and other sources of pollution, contribute significantly. Local air pollution causes health problems and a deterioration in the quality of life for many and is particularly related to particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide. Good urban development requires cooperation between different public actors, businesses and landowners. Therefore, the right considers that municipalities and county councils need to facilitate binding cooperation between industry and public for the development and renewal of urban areas. Sustainable urban and urban development is essential to address global climate challenges and local environmental challenges. The clear largest emission source in Norwegian cities is the transport sector. Municipalities and county councils have a great opportunity to influence the environment by using their purchasing power in the service of the environment and climate. For this reason, it is important for the right to be more involved in climate change and to have a public policy on climate and the environment, among others. by pursuing an environmentally friendly land policy and facilitating transport growth with public transport, bicycles and corridors. Now they get another way to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1111	It makes sense to bring together toll regulation in the Road Code. Gradually, many cities have set up bomb packages that go far beyond traditional toll projects. Local toll packages with cow pricing often incur unreasonable toll costs for the drivers and, unfortunately, are used to finance anything other than roads, such as environmental streets. Tolls have already been authorised for operation and investment in public transport. In the first place, people are affected by normal incomes, which depend on the use of cars in their everyday lives. Using progressive toll rates, this gives extreme results when you think about what the drivers pay in charge, versus what they get from new road capacity, road quality and road safety. The Progress Party considers that local authorities wishing to apply tolls should commit themselves to the benefit of the passenger car lists and road traffic, in the form of increased road capacity, improved quality of existing roads and increased road safety. What I just mentioned is going to be a prerequisite to be able to approve local requests for the use of tolls. In view of all of this, the Progress Party wishes to make the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to ensure, including, where necessary, proposing to the Storting that, in order to be able to approve the local toll package initiative, there should be proportionality between the driver’s toll and the driver’s toll returns in the form of new road capacity, improved road quality and increased road safety.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1131	Then the representative Hege Jensen has taken up the proposal she herself has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1136	Norway has set national targets to reduce local air pollution. Today, national targets are exceeded in most major cities and agglomerations in Norway. In Norway, particulate matter and NO2 contribute most to local air pollution. We also have legally binding limit values in the pollution regulation. The level of particulate matter has had a downward trend, but the limit values are still exceeded in several cities, and in the case of NO2, the limit is regularly broken in the largest cities. Despite the local air quality pollution authority in the municipalities, we have seen that the municipalities lack the necessary tools to address the problems. In particular, this applies to traffic measures on the days when the pollution is worst. In order to achieve good results, it is important to use the whole of the instrument and to cooperate well locally, regionally and centrally. It is important that national authorities encourage municipalities to continue and intensify efforts to reduce air pollution. It is also important to give new instruments to municipalities. The proposed amendments to Section 27 of the Road Code provide for greater flexibility in tolling arrangements. This is one of several instruments that can contribute to better air quality in cities where there is a local desire to use this tool. The tariffs fixed may affect the choice of means of travel and vary from day to day and from the environmental characteristics of vehicles or similar. These are sensible and forward-looking measures. It is also important — and an entirely independent point — that there should be a local desire to make use of this. Different cities will have different needs, but where this measure can have an effect, and where it is intended to be used locally, it should also be possible to do so. Tolling schemes in urban areas will continue to require the consent of the Stortingen, but now it opens up a flexibility that you have not had before. We in the Christian People's Party think that's good. It is also very positive that there is an overall committee behind the vote, although the Progress Party is promoting a proposal that goes in a completely different direction. The progress party seems to be a bit difficult to decide. They clearly vote in favour of their own proposal, which they have promoted from the Ministry, and at the same time they vote in favour of their own proposal which they have promoted in the vote. These are, in fact, two different proposals that cannot be reconciled. It is quite obvious that the proposals of the Progress Party are not really an addition to what comes from the Department, but something quite different. This is what people understand. We all understand what this is all about. It's about the Progress Party doing one thing in government and another thing on Stortinget. This is not related. Everyone understands that – also the Advance Party, I believe. But I leave it, because the most important thing now is that we get the matter settled – unanimously, I hope – and then we get a new tool in the work against local air pollution. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's good review.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1155	The legislative proposal under discussion today follows the wishes of Stortinget and the largest cities in Norway to facilitate the use of urban areas tolls based on vehicle weight, which affect the choice of means of travel, which vary with time per day and with the environmental characteristics of the vehicle. This has wanted the largest cities to be more targeted in their use of instruments in order to improve the environment in cities. We think it's important that the local authorities have it in their toolbox, and then there's a local discussion about a desire to use it or not. There has been a long desire to be able to do just that, and then we believe it is right to deliver, especially when the Storting also wants it. We still believe that one should use it with caution. It is very easy to view tolls as a pleasant income for local authorities, but it is also a cost for those who pay. This means that there are some families and households that face economic challenges when they become very eager to collect tolls locally. This also means that businesses can work hard and look at where they establish, because costs are high. It is therefore also worth remembering that when you get environmentally differentiated tolls, it may be an advantage if you reduce the toll for those cars that are environmentally friendly, rather than using the opportunity to increase the fares for those cars that are not environmentally friendly. There are different opinions of different parties. In my party we know well what we mean. As the rapporteur mentioned, the bill also contains other amendments to the Road Act § 27 and to the Road Traffic Act § 7a. The changes in Section 27 of the Road Act include: new provisions which may regulate the use to which revenues from toll tariffs temporarily amended may be used, there are more technical changes and there is a regulatory helmet. The proposal to repeal Section 7(a) of the Road Traffic Act is proposed in order to avoid the unfortunate duplication of traffic charges in urban areas in the legislation. Then I notice that the Progress Party has put forward proposals that are good Progress Party policy, but for which there is no majority in the Stortinget. I also think the Christian People's Party knows very well. I also believe the Christian People's Party knows very well that the government would have promoted more toll cuts if the Christian People's Party had been with and supported the cuts instead of voting against them so many times. It's actually the Storting that determines and provides leadership for what a government can and will do. The majority, on the other hand, point to the opening of Section 27 of the Road Act to the use of tolls for urban public transport operations, and point out that through practice it allows for more indirect coherence between payment and use of cities. I will take with me the comments that the majority have made, and shall follow them as closely as possible. The legislative proposal therefore responds to the local wishes of cities and, as the Stortinget has indicated, to what alternative tariffs it should be possible to apply within the urban tolling system. The consultation of the legislative proposal and the unanimous vote of the committee on the legislative decision show that the legislative proposal facilitates the needs of the urban toll system in the future. At the same time, I would like to remind you that one should be careful about how much cost one imposes on its citizens. I appreciate the committee's prompt handling of the matter and the prompt handling of the matter in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1174	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1179	Thank you to the Council of State, which has promoted these proposals. As the Council of State was concerned with its intervention, and also previous speakers in the debate, the Progress Party has promoted its own proposal in this matter, and my question is quite simply: is the Council of State behind the proposal of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1185	As a FrP, I want to toll your pepper grows, but I know that the Storting brings other leaders to bear, and then I follow the leaders of the Storting. I'm very proud to sit in a government that has managed to negotiate a majority in the United Kingdom in order to reduce toll tariffs in a number of projects. In these days, there are letters out to over 40 toll companies offering increased government appropriations to reduce tariffs. I note that the Labour Party voted against this. Toll stations have been removed from seven to eight different road projects, and a number of places have been allocated more money to reduce tariffs beyond what I mentioned now. It is also a natural and long history in the Progress Party that, if you first have it, tolls should go to concrete projects. As the Council of State, I am obliged to comply with the Declaration of Government. I also think that the representative, Mr Tung, knows very well. We're dealing with the majority decisions that the Storting is making. And then the election campaign for the autumn will show if the voters want more or less tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1194	I see, then, that the Council of State is in favour of an indirect utility principle, while the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party is against an indirect utility principle. So I have to ask – I am a little uncertain whether I should ask the Council of State or the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party: Does the Council of State or the Vice-Chairman agree with the indirect utility principle of the toll collection that it is possible to achieve a better accessibility for drivers through a public transport investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1199	I see what kind of debate one is trying to add up to, and I think it's not very productive. Because I think everyone knows that whoever represents the government of the Grand Duchy is actually the Council of State and not the Vice-Chairman of the party. Nest leaders may have many opinions, but government sits one and compromises and implements policies. The progress party sits there as long as we get a pass too much than what we have to take a load on. So because the Progress Party is in government, the toll tariffs have become significantly lower than the Workers' Party wants. There are fewer toll stations than the Workers' Party wants, and now there are even lower rates. The working party may well smile that they are able to apply higher toll payments to the drivers than I would like to do to the FrPs. But I think everyone knows perfectly well that if I were just FrPs and not State Council, I would probably have been in the control committee at a lot of hearings. I've avoided that because we're professional when we do this. We implement what the Stortinget has adopted, we implement the government statement. And then we're going to campaign like FrPs and fight against the tolls, of which the Workers' Party wants more.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1204	Then I almost have to ask the Council of State: how many more toll stations are there in 2017 than it was in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1209	There are more toll stations in 2017 than in 2013, but there are fewer toll stations than the Workers' Party had stated it would be in 2017. So the Workers' Party seems a little bit uninformed about what they themselves decided in their national transport plan. I remind you that now that we have presented our national transport plan, the whole growth in road construction comes from increased government appropriations, while the level of tolls is actually getting a little lower. I see that the Workers' Party smiles and smiles and think it would be more pleasant if there were more tolls. That's exactly where we disagree. We want to reduce the burden on citizens and businesses, while the Labour Party obviously has no scruples as to how much they would tax the cars, either in toll stations or in their alternative state budget, where they wanted to increase car-related taxes by 3 billion. NOK, without using one more penny on the way. That is simply the wrong approach in politics, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1214	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1221	I have to answer the Christian People's Party representative's attack on the Progress Party. That's how the Progress Party has never been happy with tolls, it's not, and it's not going to be. I also think Gruvan himself knows very well that the bulk of the population has asked the Council of State to come to Stortinget, and then the Council of State does just that. It's not unusual. Something else would have been most perceptive, if he didn't. That pressure came from the bulk of the population. It came from the big cities that the Progress Party does not rule. I also notice that the Count seems interesting to try to claim that you have two different opinions, one in government and one in general. That's not true. The Progress Party has one point of view, and it is clear that we are against tolls. We believe that in this case – as requested by the majority – one should think a little about and be extra focused, because there is no doubt that some parties are very much to use this as a pure source of income and use it to finance far more than just the availability of a car. I think Gruvan is aware of that, too. I would remind you that earlier in such a debate there was an electric car and a hybrid car that was the rescue. Then there was pollution from fossil fuel that was the problem. It's not many months and years since we talked about it. Now suddenly the car has become a problem. The cleaner the car gets, the bigger the problem is. You've been involved in adding up. All batches have been too light for both electric car and hybrid car – that’s what saved them. Now the same batches are trying to turn it into a problem. The party of progress does not see it as a problem, we see it as a solution. In addition, I would like to remind you, it also applies to the Christian People's Party, that you have different views here on the Stortinget and locally. You also have different views about toll projects based on where you are in the country. Sometimes you're sideways for tolls, sometimes you're against it. Sometimes you're to set the rates, sometimes you're not. So I think that debate can be put dead here and now. The Party of Progress has not changed its view – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1234	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1250	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1266	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines with up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1275	Let me first thank the Committee for a good cooperation in dealing with this proposition. I will go through the main elements of the legislative amendment and link some comments to some of the proposals. The Labour Party has promoted an alternative proposal to Section 33, and I expect them to explain the background to it. Otherwise, I refer to the Committee's position and comments. Practical experience from the introduction of a completely new regulatory regime for the postal sector adopted in the new postal law of 4 September 2015 has led to the need to clarify some of the provisions of the law. The Postal Act now provides for competition throughout the postal market. In order to ensure that the intention of the law is fulfilled and to ensure the rapid, good and efficient management of the postal sector, some changes are proposed. It turns out that there is some disagreement in the market about how Section 33 of the Postal Act on the offeror’s access to the delivery mailbox should be understood. It has therefore been proposed to amend § 33 and new § 33a, whereby the postal service provider, authorised by the National Communications Authority, should be given access to both the entrance door and the main lid of the mailbox. This will allow for equivalent competition in the postal market. Definitions of the zoning key and zoning key system have also been included in Section 4 of the Act. The purpose of these changes is to facilitate a common system for zone keys so that authorised postal providers can have effective access to mailboxes in a secure manner. I record that there are questions about whether this means a disproportionate interference in the control of farms or residents with who has access to the entrances. I believe that this is well taken care of by the fact that only authorised postal providers can access the zoning keys and zoning key system, and that strict requirements for both privacy and property rights will be imposed. The requirements for those with access to zone keys will be strict. However, instead of operating with more than one system, it may be appropriate to develop and move towards a common zoning key system and to allocate the costs in a sensible way to safeguard the intention of the law of effective competition in the postal market. Where the Post Norway AS was the only player in this market, there are now several current providers. There are providers who can also offer other services, and eventually also new products. Over time, it is reasonable to assume that competition in this market will contribute to new and improved services for customers. The law also states that the universal service provider will be given the right to order in the mail box on a foreign basis. This is a reintroduction of Section 14 of the Postal Act 1996 and is considered important in order to ensure effective postal distribution. Furthermore, § 55 on expropriation has been considered redundant as it is adequately regulated by the Origeningsgesetz. Provision has been made for appeal procedures, user complaints for postal services and complaints to the authorities dealing with dismissal, revocation and punishment. Furthermore, provision has been made for an accounting separation in order to prevent distorting cross-subsidies and to provide for the collection of fees and sectoral charges. A change has also been made to Section 2 of the Banking Obligations Act on cost recovery, so that the Post may require compensation for its provision of banking services in the Landpostnet of the Post when the Post is cancelled. I'm not going to go into any of these changes. The main objective of the amendment is to ensure effective and fair competition in the postal market in line with the objective and intention of the Postal Act. That's what I mean by the changes in Prop. 122 L for 2016-2017 takes good care.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1294	This case concerns the preparation of a field where there has been some confusion since the adoption of the new postal code. The practical experience gained after the introduction of a new regulatory regime has led to some clarifications where there have been unclear views about what should be. It's good that we now get cleaned up, so that we get good management of the postal sector in line with the intention of the law. For the Christian People's Party, I can say that we are joining in these clarifying changes, which are essentially a follow-up to the principles we stood for when the current postal law was passed. There's little drama in this. The primary objective in the postal field is to continue to ensure a comprehensive supply of postal items at a reasonable price and of good quality to the population, businesses and authorities. The development of ever-increasing volumes of letters, combined with the transition to digital communications, has led to the need for changes. The changes that were adopted in 2015 were absolutely necessary in order for us to have a good offer throughout the country in the future. It was absolutely necessary adjustments. What we adopt here and now is a clarification that will contribute to real and healthy competition in the postal market. We therefore support the solutions that have been chosen for zone keys, on which there has been some discussion. But I would like to underline one point where the Christian People's Party disagrees with the Ministry's proposal. The Ministry opens up the possibility that ‘shared turnover’ may be used as a basis for allocating the costs of the scheme between operators. In this respect, we believe that other criteria should be considered, so that individual providers cover as far as possible the costs they incur by entering into a scheme that is already in place. Here we believe that the ministry should look at a different solution than the one proposed. It's a reasonable principle that hasn't been followed up, at our discretion. I understand that the Post Office cannot believe that the proposed solution is entirely reasonable, nor is it completely rationally justified. But in addition to this, the Christian People's Party supports what is on the table in this matter here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1305	The legislative proposal provides that authorities may impose access to the Post’s separate system for entrance door zone keys. The centre party believes this would be a disproportionate interference in the control of the farm/resident of who has access to the entrances. The centre party believes it is problematic to extend access to mailbox keys. Post often contains information that may be used for identity theft, as well as that entry may contain valuables. It is important that the individual mailbox owner has a certain control over who has access to the contents of the mailbox, and we believe that these reasons mean that we should not open up to extended access, as the proposal suggests. The central party will therefore vote against §§ 33 and 33 a. Subsidiary support for the proposal of the Workers' Party. So in the end, the centre lot seems to have to take into account the allocation of costs in the scheme between operators, so that individual providers cover as far as possible the costs they incur by entering into the scheme and using the keys.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1316	I agree with most of the comments made by the representative of the Central Party, Janne Sjelmo Nordås. In addition, the Workers' Party is concerned that farms are responsible for or have the right to decide for themselves who should have access to the dwellings, because there is a boundary between what is common area and what is indoors. I would like to point out that the Workers' Party has put forward a proposal that is in line with this and that also clarifies the rights and limitations that the Post Norway receives in the system that is, how costs are to be allocated, and how this system can be better organised in an appropriate way than what is proposed by the Government. With that, I take up the proposal that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1323	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1328	Getting letters and the like in the mailbox has often been an exciting thing up through history. Today, it is becoming increasingly rare, because one uses other forms of communication. Digital e-mail, etc. has been the big market winner and characterises our everyday lives. Nevertheless, there are things to be delivered physically, and then it is important that you have access to the mailboxes. Outside housing blocks, this is not a problem; most housing units and housing units have mailboxes standing by the street, where anyone has access. The fewest mailbox owners have a padlock or locking system, and thus one has a rather liberal approach to who gets access to its mailbox. But just in a block it is very often that the mailboxes are indoors, behind a locked door instead of outdoors. That's the approach to this we're discussing, because there's more than the Post today that delivers things in Norway. It is important then to ensure that one has a system that is least bureaucratic and that is as easy to deal with as possible. We then presented a proposal for amendments to Section 33, precisely to clarify the legislation as to who has the right and access, and should have it. We have tried to get it in a good way by making sure that there are some demands that are made to access the son keys, to ensure that not everyone creates fictional things just to access the post office. I agree with the points that come, among other things. from the Center Party, but I think it's well taken care of just this way. Accessing the zone keys to the post office stand inside a block is not helpful if one does not have access to the external door that locks that block at the same time. In fact, by trusting in having access to the mailboxes, at least the government believes that there is not a new big step – rather the opposite – to have access to the entrance door there. We think it makes sense to implement it, and that is what we have proposed. Then there'll be a discussion about cost allocation. It can attack in several ways. One could say that here everyone has to pay an exact equal share of the total cost of administering such a system, regardless of whether a letter delivers a letter per year or ten letters per day. Another approach might be to say that the system already exists, so new players just have to pay the marginal extra cost of letting another person have a similar key button. In that case, it would probably be a very small cost in a large, important system. The proposals that have come up with alternative approaches are so interesting in the debate, but I think that one does not solve the challenges either by sharing costs equally or by approximating a cost sharing where it is just the marginal extra cost that should be the difference. What we've outlined, we think, gives a good balance. Then I also remind you that this has to be consulted when regulations are to be established, and then we will also be able to get different actors' views on whether there are even better ways to do it. I note that the other changes proposed by the government – many of which are really formalities – are unanimously endorsed by the Stortinget. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1341	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1346	It's true that we essentially agree with those changes and arrangements here, but it's a significant difference, and it's about access and access, and who should be empowered to grant access. That is why we have made a proposal for an amendment in the area keys for entrance doors – not for mailboxes themselves – and on who should have that authority. There we put ourselves on a system that becomes a special arrangement for Norway. I wonder, then, whether the Council of State does not have concerns about putting itself on such a principled line.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1351	The reason why you have to have it can be called a Norwegian special regulation is that we are in a special position in this respect. To the extent that we have received information from our neighbouring country, no one has this problem with as many mailboxes as are inside, just as Norway has. That's why one has chosen that solution. If it had been so that the Norwegian postal bill in housing law was similar to what is in most other countries, it would have been natural to copy the legislation you have there. But that's not the case, and then it's not something that it's worth copying.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1357	In all cases, this will be a system in which the authorities actually review private property rights, because it is not the farmer who gives his consent – which should be unproblematic – but that it is actually the authorities who grant this authorisation. I think it's a bit alarming that we're going to put ourselves on a scheme that will then become a special arrangement for us. The second issue we have raised, and where there are proposals for changes to Section 33, is related to cost. I see that we have received support from several parties. It might look like you're going through a system that allows new providers to get away more reasonably, and that the Post must in some way be involved in taking the cost of competitors or providers. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable for new providers to escape – with increased costs for the Post?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1366	The last first: the fact that new providers must also be involved and take part of the costs does not mean that the Post must take the cost of accessing others. I actually think that's logically wrong. In the case of access to mailboxes: if you have a zoning key to the mailbox itself, you have access to the mailbox. So the question is, shall a few access to get close to the mailbox by getting through the door? I record that the Workers' Party believes no, the approach that the farmer has originally given, applies only to the Post Norway, while we believe that it applies to those who are going to carry out the mail distribution. And as long as you have a requirement for approval and the like, it means that you have a quality assurance at the bottom that leads to no one having access to it. We then think it is quite bureaucratic if each actor who is going to deliver something in a mailbox has to have a separate agreement. We believe it is a good simplification to make sure that a defines ‘postal distribution’ as having access to son keys, and that not only the Post Norway should have it, and that PostNord and, if necessary, others should have their own agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1373	In fact, it is – if you read the case – that the post office has to expect to take a larger share of the cost, as it says here. It says how to distribute that cost or might have to distribute that cost. So that makes me feel pretty clear here. As far as access is concerned, we are not against having access – that is what we open for – but this concerns more principle: is it the authorities that are going to give it access, or is it the owner of a house or farm to give it? That's really what the principle is here. The last thing we've recorded, along with the Center Party, is about changing § 11: Can you feel confident that that change is just an adaptation of the current system, or can you now open up to a new change of location, with the background to the change of the paragraph?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1382	To the last one, it's an adaptation of today's system. There is no hidden agenda in it. In terms of costs, it is possible that we talk past each other, but what I realized was that the representative Juvik asked for in the previous article was how the Post would have to take the cost of having access to others, and then I pointed out that the Post does not receive a higher cost than they have today. But they like to have a larger share of the cost, because they have a greater benefit of access. But we have to find a calculation that makes this seem fair to all parties. There is an important job to do at the hearing. But it's not that by getting an actor who gets access to keys, the cost will go up, and then the Post must take some of the increased cost as well. That's not the purpose of our side. With regard to the access and what the representative Juvik mentions in connection with it, I believe that the Workers' Party has aligned itself with the fact that it is only the Post that gets access, while we believe that there are post offices that have received access, i.e. not one specific company. Farmers have already accepted that there should be postal distribution in the block.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1391	Previous talks were about what I was going to ask about Section 11. I understood that the Council of State was clear that postal recipients should not be concerned that the mailboxes would be moved further away from the home. This is a matter that has been going on over a time, where the Post has chosen to move the reception site quite far away, especially around the district of Norway, where perhaps older people seem to get an unnecessary long way. There is reason to state that it is important that postal recipients have the shortest possible path to their mail. I see that there may be a need for coordination in urban areas, otherwise there will be a lot of mailboxes. Do the Councils agree with that assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1398	I initially agree with that assessment. We have to make it appropriate for people to be able to pick up the post near where they live. In what we do with Section 11, it is also not that we should be able to extend the changes that you have made in the past. I myself live in a housing camp, and it's natural, I think, that the 21 houses, instead of having the mailboxes outside our own houses, have them at a joint drive-in to the tune we live on. It is appropriate for the Post Office, and it also works well for us who live there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1405	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1427	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Hege Jensen, who is the working case rapporteur in the absence of Mr André Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1438	This proposition refers to the Committee’s view of the importance of the implementation of the E39 Rogfast in Rogaland and the importance of this approach in bringing together a larger housing and labour market region in the West. The E39 Rogfast is one of the largest transport projects in Norway and the first ferry relief project in the development of ferry-free E39 between Kristiansand and Trondheim. Here one of the world's longest and deepest undersea tunnels shall be built, at the lowest point all 392 metres below the sea surface. A ferry-free connection between North Juice and Haugaland means significant savings in travel time. Over time, there has been work on a basis for establishing an underwater tunnel. The financing of the project consists of both State resources and tolls. The cost framework is set at 18 660 million. kr. The external quality assurance for the project established a higher cost and management framework than that of the State Road Service in its calculations. With this in mind, the State Road Agency has adjusted its proposals for governance and cost frameworks. The Committee would stress that since there is uncertainty about the financing plan for such a large and comprehensive project, the State framework may be increased by up to 1.3 billion. kr if there is a failure of the economy of the project. An overall committee believes that the project has considerable socio-economic benefits, estimated at €13.6 billion. kr. The toll financing for the project shall consist of both a preliminary and a posteriori toll collection, which shall be based on 20 years of post-recovery for the project. A light car tax of 350 kroner is assumed, and if you have a valid bomber, you will receive 20 pst. Discount. The Committee agrees that the project will be covered by the new grant scheme in order to reduce tolls outside the urban areas. This scheme shall provide for a reduction of at least 10 p.m. and shall be calculated on the basis of market interest when the project is ready. In connection with the development of the E39 Rogfast, a separate construction tunnel will be built. This tunnel has been registered by the Committee to be closed by completion. A Joint Committee would like to ask the Council of State to take the necessary initiatives to consider the possibility for Firenvesenet Sør-Rogaland IKS to take over this civil engineering tunnel. The Fire Service itself has pointed out on several occasions that the tunnel can act as a training tunnel so that firefighters who so wish can use it to enhance theoretical and practical competence in accidents in tunnels. But here the consensus ends in the committee. The Progress Party will stress that the toll reform and the adopted compensation mechanism will benefit all Norwegian drivers through lower rates of bombing or reduced downtime.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1455	We're a lot of people who've been waiting a long time on this day, so we can give the final starter shot so Rogfast can be built. For various reasons, there have been several releases and new rounds of announcements before things have now been ready for final handling here in Stortinget. Today, we must be most happy that we are now there – now it is final processing, and now the final clear signal is coming to start. Rogfast is a very important project to realize a future upgraded and ferry-free coastal line, E39 on the route from Stavanger and northwards the coast all the way to Trondheim, which will also provide a national value-creation lift. There may not be as many people as you want to run the entire coastal route from Kristiansand to Trondheim at one time, but the need for fast and safe transport on the partial routes is great. And then it's important to shorten between Stavanger and Bergen, both because it's good that they in Stavanger and Bergen then come closer together, and not least because it involves regional enlargement and better social development, also in the areas between these two major western villages. Although we may see that we are slowly building the West together, and that it looks as if we have to wait a long time for things to happen, I thought that in a day like this, we should also look a little backwards: in my growing-up time on Bryne, with vacation trips up to Stord, it was a strict day trip to run that route. In the meantime, roads and ferry services have generally been better. In 1992, Rennfast opened, which meant much shorter ferries over Boknafjorden, and in 2001 we got the Triangle connection, which made the Boemlafjorden ferry-free. With a built-in Rogfast, the Boknafjord is also free, and then it will be possible to travel for me from Bryne to Stord in less than an hour and three blocks. Rogfast is a project that will give major local and regional effects by connecting Rogaland with a ferry-free connection between the north and south states. This happens with a nearly 27 km long underwater tunnel in two runs between Harestad in the south and Arsvågen in the north. In addition, the side arm with a 3.7 km single-loop tunnel to White Island will provide a ferry exit for this island community. Quite exactly four years ago, we in this room dealt with the matter of pre-claiming tolls on the ferry across the Bokenfjord to finance further planning and design of the E39 Rogfast. I am pleased that a large majority at the time, all the parties apart from the Advance Party, supported it in this way in order to make it possible to work out the basis for the decision that has been necessary for us to make final decisions today, because it has not only been right with this planning. New moments have come to pass, the cost picture has changed, and the biggest change in the planning process has probably been that the tunnel on the north side of the fjord has been extended by a distance of 2 km in order to have a slower rise than what was originally planned, which, of course, increases safety, but also greatly increases the cost of a two-course underwater tunnel. Although there are some different clarifications in the comments, there is a joint committee behind the financing arrangement and the recommendation, which means that the construction of Rogfast can now start. It announces an even better transport future for the South-West, and only to have it mentioned: the free means not only better transport conditions for private cars and trucks. I'm overconfident that public transport will become even more attractive to those who travel over longer distances. And then we all look forward to a lot of construction activity, which for many years to come will also provide needed jobs in a region that is struggling with excessive unemployment. I am also glad that I hear and see many rogaland farmers outside hail us on this day when we will now adopt this important project for the whole state and the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1476	The President will note that the demonstration will probably be as important if they have a little bit lower sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1481	Let me first thank both the rapporteur and the committee for their good cooperation. E39 Rogfast is the first ferry relief project on the E39 between Kristiansand and Trondheim. The link replaces two ferry connections and consists of a two-run subsea tunnel more than 26 km long. It will be the longest and deepest underwater tunnel in the world with the lowest point 392 meters below the sea surface. In addition, an arm shall be built for White Island, which is a country road. Although this is a long and deep underwater tunnel, it will be built according to strict safety requirements. The maximum gradient is 5 pst. There will be escape routes between the tunnels. There will also be only parallel traffic in the tunnels, so even if the world record is set in length and depth, it will be a modern and safe tunnel. Ferry-free E39 builds up the West, and it is important for long-distance transport, but perhaps even more important for short-haul traffic. Rogfast connects North-Jear and Haugaland in a common housing and labour market region. This is important in order to enhance the attractiveness of the whole area. From a long-term perspective, our ability to attract us to the finest of peoples will be crucial to the competitiveness and well-being of the business community. Building together the Western regions is an important tool for creating this attractiveness and facilitating continued strong value creation along the coast. E39 Rogfast is the first of several major ferry relief projects on E39. The government’s proposal for a national transport plan also prioritises Hordfast and Møreaksen with state resources in the Storing Message. Rogfast and Hordfast will contribute to a powerful region between Stavanger and Bergen. Møreaksen will bind together the North West and establish a ferry-free link between Kristiansund, Molde and Ålesund. All projects are important for a future ferry-free and upgraded E39. There is some uncertainty about the cost framework. The external quality insurer assesses the risk slightly higher than the State Road Service does, mainly because of the scale of the project and relatively long construction time. Converted to 2017 figures, a cost framework of 18.9 billion has been established. kr, which is slightly higher than the previous estimate. It's added to base 3.6 billion. kr in State resources and the remainder financed by tolls over a period of 20 years, in addition to advance tolls and parallel collection. This is a relatively high toll share, and it is also reasonable that the government will open up to increase the government’s share by up to 1.3 billion. kr if the economy of the project would be worse than intended. It is assumed that toll tariffs may be reduced slightly if the interest actually obtained is lower than that of the calculation technique. It will be up to local authorities to take this action room out at lower rates or shorter instalments. In addition, the project may be part of the Toll Loan Compensation Scheme, which could also contribute to lower fares. It is also an overall committee which asks the Council of State to consider the possibility that a 700-metre long construction tunnel may be made available as a training tunnel. This could be an important contribution to strengthening both theoretical and practical competence in tunnel accidents. It's a pleasure day when we adopt this big ferry relief project at E39, and the spade can be put in the ground during 2017. It's an important day for the North and Haugaland, it's an important day on the road towards a ferry-free E39, and it's an important day for the whole of the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1500	Rogfast is a very good project to which great expectations are attached. A significant reduction in travel time, as has already been said by several, completely new means of communication in this part of the West and connects the Stavanger region with Bergen in a completely new way. The project provides the basis for an enlarged region of housing and business, which contributes to the regeneration of value added. The project has a large net value added, in fact 13.6 billion. kr. We note that there is a disagreement about the cost framework between the external quality insurer and the state road service, and because of this uncertainty, in addition to the uncertainty about the level of tolls in terms of the number of passages, it has been right in our view to provide an opportunity to extend the country's financial framework by a further 1.3 billion. NOK 3,6 billion. kr. It is natural and appropriate that funds from the subsidy scheme to reduce tolls outside urban areas are used to reduce the level of tolls on this route. Although the ferry ticket currently also costs significantly, a fare of 350 kroner per passenger car and 1050 kroner for heavy goods vehicles – for 20 years – is a high level, which may be somewhat reduced by applying this scheme. Then, in the Christian People's Party, we are very happy that the civil engineering tunnel to be built to handle masses from the main tunnel can also be considered used for the fire service in South Rogaland as the drill tunnel for the fire crew when the project is completed. This has been a matter that the Christian People's Party in Rogaland has been working for a long time to realise. There is no doubt that the possibility afforded by this tunnel could strengthen the knowledge of the fire crew, both theoretically and practically, in the case of tunnel accidents. We see an increase in the number of subsea tunnels in the future. Then it is important that the rescue facilities acquire knowledge in order to be able to handle fires and serious accidents in both small and large tunnels in the future. Also in that way Rogfast is a very good project.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1515	Like many of the previous speakers, I am delighted that we can now adopt Rogfast. It will be a major and important step in bringing the West closer together. Several others, including: The representative, Magne Rommetveit, has gone through both the history and the challenges ahead of us getting where we are today, so I don't intend to repeat that, but just join. My concern today is to point to the big challenge it is with guarantee liability when it is such a big deal. It is demanding, and both the municipalities and the county authorities think it is difficult to have such a heavy burden. That is why we are today promoting a proposal that the Stortinget should ask the government to propose a State guarantee for the borrowing of loans in the context of the development of the project E39 Rogfast.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1522	The representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1527	SV believes that E39 Rogfast is a project that generates extra traffic. It's a bad project for the environment, and it's bad for community planning. It is the opposite of node planning and adds to road-based societal development with the spread of the population. The majority are in favour of a huge road project which is very expensive and which binds the West along with road ahead. SV votes against the setting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1532	Rogfast is an amazing project. Rogfast will be important for the development of a region: Stavanger-Haugesund. It's going to make sure that living in those cities and districts is more attractive. It is important for housing, and it is important for employment. It is important for business and for jobs. It's also important for well-being. Consider being able to travel across Boknafjord to experience cultural offers, leisure activities – all that one today chooses not to be part of because it is so long and so deep. I've grown up with this myself. Like Bryne-gutt -- we're two -- traveling to Haugesund at a football tournament, it was exotic. It was almost like traveling to Denmark. They also had a slightly different dialect. But I had relatives there, so we had it pleasant yet. Today the distance is a little less because a built-in Rennfast and has got a ferry that goes faster, and that is more comfortable. It is not an hour in waves to come from Mekkarvik to Skudeneshavn – after 20 minutes you are over. Think when we get the tunnel and can travel when it suits us, without having to check the ferry times, without having to check if one of the ferries is in the workshop, so that the queues are a little longer than usual. It's a sense of freedom. It's going to mean an incredible amount. When this is done, we know that at the same time we are digging a good highway to Kristiansand, and one is digging on to get closer to Bergen. It is important to link the whole of the South-West together – yes, the whole of the North-West. Viewing it as something negative, as something undesirable, I don't understand. Most of the cars that are going to drive in Rogfast in the future are going to be emission-free. They're going to give us a sense of freedom that allows us to ensure that people live in the whole country. I thought that was good. I think it's nice when we also see that the toll reform the government is doing is saving. The budgetary agreement that the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left made last autumn means that the drivers in Rogfast will save around 1.6 billion. kr that they would not have received if one had continued the current policy of the red-green government. That's money saved. It makes the tariffs lower, and it makes more people want to use it, because it doesn't help so much to build a tunnel if it becomes so expensive to use that people don't use it. We've seen it earlier on projects where the growth in traffic and the value added locally only came when the tolls disappeared. It is also important to ensure safety. Some of the reasons why the project has taken longer to realise – or, strictly not, because it was to be carried out in the first four years, but despite many changes, we have managed to keep progress fairly well – are increased safety focus, not least fire safety. The current civil majority has more than quadrupled the allocations for tunnel safety in general. In the 2017 budget, more than 2.5 billion will be used. kr on it, towards about 600 million. kr in the year preceding the government change. The importance of ensuring that a new tunnel is built to ensure road safety. That's why this has become a two-course tunnel with a weaker gradient than what was originally thought, but I think we're all going to appreciate that we spent that time getting an even better project. Providing good monitoring and employing technologies that can both reveal the risk of fire by measuring heat on the brake, could detect fire if it occurs quickly, and could take its consequences by initiating decommissioning and rescue, is important. The Fire School at Tjeldsund is an important place of education. The practice tunnel in More and Romesdal is important, and there are also other places where you can practice this. The Committee emphasises that there are also many subsea tunnels in the West and asks me to look further at whether the fire service can take over this locally and would like to make it a more systematic training site. I'll do that job. I'll do it together with the National Fire Protection Agency and the Road Service, so that we get something that works well. But today I think we'll look forward to it. I think we got illustrated in the last article why this would have taken time under other governments. But it was the Bondevik government that first thought the idea, and then I think it should also be good for the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that one now actually completes this and puts the spade in the ground, even if one in the opposite constellation disagreed with whether this is reasonable. I think this is good, and this is really just the first, important step to physically tie the West together.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1558	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1563	I want to challenge the Council of State on the employment impact of the Rogfast project. We, who are from Rogaland, are concerned that such a large project in our region will create jobs both in the region and for the country. With the construction of Ryfast – also a local project – one has seen that there have been serious negative events. The Labour Inspectorate has been carrying packages and has been there with reports. Unfortunately, there have also been deaths. We would wish it had meant more jobs locally, in the region. So my question to the council is, what will he do now to make sure that Rogfast, when it's built, essentially gives jobs in our region of the country, a region that needs these jobs hurt?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1570	The goal I share, and I think that for everyone who wants this, today's government and today's majority are the best way to secure it. We have put forward a national transport plan that will enable one to develop a Norwegian entrepreneurial industry. In the current national transport plan, the previous government stressed that it should facilitate the possibility for foreign companies to establish themselves in this country. The previous government sent government councils out of the country to recruit foreign entrepreneurs to do this kind of job in Norway. We haven't. We cannot refuse them to submit tenders, but it is important to ensure that a clear requirement is made that it is based on labour law, to ensure that apprentices and the like. And that's what we've given results. Over 40 pst. of the contracts to Vegvesen went to foreign companies in 2012, the proportion is significantly lower now, simply because we have had a different approach to it. We will ensure that we use taxpayers' money in a good way, but we will also ensure that we develop Norwegian workers and Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1577	My challenge went more to what this government sees itself to do. And there have been some negative experiences from Ryfast. So I'm going to challenge the Council of States to go a little bit deeper into what he wants to do with this kind of project so that we can even more than the percentages that he now mentions, make sure that there are jobs in the region. The Council of State itself has been willing to boast that this will mean jobs locally. Local business is impatient to see the results. So can one now in this project specifically ensure that there will be more workplaces locally? Is there any grip taken to ensure it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1582	I do not go into one specific project and favour Norwegian entrepreneurs, but for the three and a half years we have managed, I have been concerned that we should facilitate Norwegian entrepreneurs to win. It's not just in Rogfast it's been important to us, but in every project, and so we see results of that. Ryfast, as the representative takes up, is a project that came into the market when the Workers' Party ruled. If one is not satisfied with the proportion of Norwegian entrepreneurs involved, then one really has to look at its own policy, where one in the national transport plan – as they suggested – chose to say that it was important to recruit foreign entrepreneurs into Norway, where one itself, government councillors from the red-green government, went abroad to recruit them. The important thing for me has been that we build good projects, use taxpayers' money as efficiently as possible, and that we develop Norwegian business and Norwegian workers. That's why we haven't gone abroad to recruit, so we've made sure that we talk a lot to the industry and hear what it's working out, and what it's not working out. The requirement for more apprentices is one of the instruments. Ensuring that the Working Environment Act is adhered to, that we are clear on it in advance, is another instrument. Having a good contract strategy has been a third instrument. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1591	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1598	Today is a good day, not only for Rogaland and Little White Island, but for the whole of the West, because this is a project that not only connects the county by replacing the country's second most trafficked ferry connection, but also because it is the start of the ferry-free E39. The case has taken longer and has become more expensive than initially assumed, including. due to new climb requirements. Now it will be good to get it adopted and get the excavators started. An overall Rogaland bench has been working for several years after massive pressure and countless encounters with the fire director in South Rogaland to ensure that the construction tunnel to be built can be taken over by the fire service and used as a training tunnel. On behalf of the Rogaland bench, I would like to thank the Committee for a unanimous vote, in which the Council of State is asked to take the initiative in order to resolve this. The level of tolls is still high, but with the Progress Party in the government, we have been able to take action that reduces the tariffs in relation to what was in the assumptions of the red-greens. We've increased the state contribution from 2.4 billion. to 5.1 billion kr, and we have increased the discount from 10 pst. until 20 pst. Before Christmas we had tough budget negotiations on the famous car package, which meant a toll discount for projects in the districts. The working party was against this, as they also point out in the comments, and the representative Marianne Marthinsen told the business community today about his resistance to toll reduction that it was completely wild. Well, what's wild is that we've fought hard to get an impact on the car package in the budget. This one gets Rogfast now enjoys and will mean approx. Six billion. kr in reduced tolls. It is also very good that the market rate of opening should determine the level of tolls, not the technical calculation rate of 5.5 pst. With today's interest rate level, it could be 2.5 pst. lower interest rates and perhaps a further 125 kroner in reduced tolls. I would like to take this opportunity to point out why it is so important for us in the Progress Party to bring down the toll percentage. Most people think of commuting distances in time and dollars, not in kilometers. If we are to get the positive effect of large road projects like Rogfast, it is important that the drivers pay the minimum possible. The Rennfast tunnel project, now to replace Rogfast, was built with a toll station in 1992. Toll collection ended in 2006, and the large growth in both business and population in Rennesøy came only in 2007, i.e. after the bomb was removed. In the years following 2007, Rennesøy was the municipality of growth number one in the country, with a growth of 24.4 pst. If we are to achieve the highest possible benefit from the potential of major road projects, it is important to get the cost of individual drivers as low as possible. The party of progress is the only party that is opposed to tolls, and in government we fight every day to reduce the toll burden on the drivers. For Rogfast, we have won several battles, and the lesson for the drivers is that the bigger the Advance Party is at the election, the greater the breakthrough we will have in government negotiations when we win the election until the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1615	This is a violent day for us who are from Rogaland, Stavanger, Haugesund and Nordhordland. One of the road projects in Norway is passing the Stortinget today. We who are not in the committee can extend a great deal of thanks to the Committee for a good and quick procedure, not least after excellent preparatory work by the State Council of Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the Right-Fremskrit party government, which today means that we are adopting a road project costing almost 20 billion. kr. It's going to contribute to an enormous employment effect on the South West itself, but cutting the distance from Haugesund to Stavanger by 40 minutes, Rogaland binds together like Harald Haarfare gathered Norway to one kingdom even more years ago. It gives Rogaland an enormous opportunity. People who live in Tysvær, in Bokn, in Randaberg, or in Rennesøy, have a shorter way to the Haugesunds area to get a job than to Forus, when one takes over the cows that are in the North Jären area. It will revolutionise everyday life, reduce the cost of business and help Rogaland to become a common housing and labour market. It's going to stop worrying about the timetable – when is the ferry leaving? – and end of hasardious passages to reach the ferry, or to reach the next ferry further north, towards Bergen. The irritation around closed ferry exits, workshops and maintenance ferries, harvest and winter holidays destroyed by storms and cancelled ferries will be ended. Rogaland, along with Rennfast, which we have today, Ryfast, which is under construction, Finnfast, which opened not too long ago, has become Norway's subsea tunnel center. That is why, from the right, we are very pleased that the Committee has made a positive contribution, which, in practice, opened up to the need for a new tunnel safety and emergency centre, which should preferably be close by here, and so here, after Rogfast is finished, there is a 700 m tunnel ready for emergency. And the committee comments that lie there are a good management tool for the ministry further forward. So this is a very nice day for all the rapporteurs who have been working on this project for many years, for the municipality of Rogaland, which guarantees the borrowing, for the rapporteurs who have contributed to working for this project for years. I have heard about this project for 20 years. That's why it's really fun today to end it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1626	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1642	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1651	There is broad consensus that it is important to fight social dumping and serious crime at work. It is also important to achieve a level playing field for domestic and foreign operators in the lorry industry. In this proposal, the proposers address different problems in the transport sector. The government indicates that a number of measures have already been implemented in this area. In the course of the examination, the Committee has shown that they are concerned that the various measures taken in the field of transport to improve road safety and conditions of competition in the industry and to halt the development of social dumping are targeted. A joint committee also stresses that it is desirable to promote good and serious working conditions. It is worth noting that the government in its letter of reply indicates that there is a need to step up efforts to combat social dumping and serious crime at work. It is important to smooth out the differences that exist in the transport sector today. Therefore, I thought it was good to record that the government has both worked for and continues to work to promote good and serious employment. A strategy against work crime has been developed. This strategy was revised in 2017, in view of the need to continue work on labour-related crime. The government also points to the need to strengthen its efforts further. This is a very important and ongoing work. It is through cooperation with the social partners that a wide-ranging and joint effort is being made to combat crime at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1664	Competition is good. It promotes innovation and innovation and provides a better offer to users. But a prerequisite for competition to be good, and for the disadvantages of competition not to be dominant, is that competition takes place on equal terms, so that the serious actors – those who put forth effort not only to be effective and good competitors but also to meet the other concerns and requirements of society – actually have a real and fair opportunity to compete with those who choose to go beyond what is desired by society. When we talk about orderly conditions in the transport sector, it's about relationships like cabotage, not the legal cabotage, but the illegal cabotage, which is a threat to serious actors. These are those who choose to compete to have a lower standard on the vehicles travelling along Norwegian roads, whether it is a technical condition of the vehicle and the level of maintenance chosen, or winter equipment or other conditions. It is about those who are driving on the roads taking seriously the challenge we face in the transport sector of reducing emissions, in order to follow the objectives set by the authorities to reduce emissions of CO 2, which is a threat to the climate, and not to cheat with additives that contribute to increasing emissions of NO x, which is a challenge for the local environment. It is a matter of ensuring that those who drive 50–60–70 tonnes along Norwegian to some extent very narrow and curved roads have the competence to control this load, have the competence to assess how to drive, so as not to endanger other road users. It is also about having the competence to control specific Norwegian driving conditions, and it is about the competence to work in a safe and sound manner. Finally, it is about having an orderly and equivalent relationship when talking about employment for those who actually work in this sector: it is about pay and working conditions. Some actors take advantage of the fact that there is a sharp and growing international competition and immature regulatory framework that opens up rules shopping. This is not a challenge or a problem that is specific to the lorry industry; it has been in maritime industry for decades, but we see it moving into ever new industries, and the two most current are aviation, which has many of the same challenges, but we also find it in the lorry industry. It is about unprofessional actors who use instruments and who shop legislation and take advantage of regulatory gaps in order to be able to compete unfairly. The consequence for society is that there is a risk of a weakening of safety, a weakening of environmental standards, and, overall, a poorer supply for society and poor solutions. The fight against social dumping is important for the Workers' Party. We are concerned that everyone should have a job to go to. We are also very concerned that everyone should have safety in the work situation, regardless of whether one is a long-distance transport driver, an office worker, or wherever one works. There is no political dispute here that these are important matters, but what might separate the parties here is whether you are satisfied or not with the measures that the government has already taken. But the government itself points out that there is a need for a strengthened effort. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that the fight against social dumping continues every day. It's not a game that we're going to finish. That's why we're making a lot of suggestions to keep working on this. We want a more offensive approach than the majority of people here do, and we want a more offensive approach than the government puts up with. We are not satisfied with the efforts that are there, even though many important measures have been taken and are contributing in the right direction. We want stronger measures, we want more measures, and we want them implemented faster. With this, I address the proposal that the Labour Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1685	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1690	There is no doubt that there is a cross-political consensus on the challenges we face in this industry, but this also applies, as was mentioned by the representative Sivertsen, aviation, maritime sector, etc. The party of progress shares the impatience that I read between the lines here from the pulpit. We're impatient after things happen. One of the building sites that is under construction is precisely that we want to ensure a level playing field – without any doubt. We want competition to work, and it has to work in a space that is protected in terms of seriousness, a code of conduct, etc. But it's now that our society is characterized by increased internationalization, and then we have a challenge. Because is it that the industry to adapt, to be able to co-operate, is going down, or is it other country's industries going up? That's what this is all about. In the case of collective agreements, there are rest periods — yes, one can look at everything that has emerged in the cabotage committee two and a half years ago. It was a selection that came up with a lot of good suggestions, which I know the Council and the Department have worked a lot on, and a lot of these points have now become the country and implemented. I understand – as the Council of State experiences when he is travelling, and also other government representatives – that one is dependent on international support for part of these proposals. Norway alone cannot establish a special regulation that does not address competition and the possibilities for co-ordination of legislation with other countries. We cannot make any strange rules that would make our carriers, our companies, unable to leave, in order to protect their own business in their own country. That is why we must have international rules in this area. There is no doubt that the resistance we face is not from the countries we can compare with, such as Austria, partly Switzerland, Sweden, etc., for these countries, when we are talking with them, we reap sympathy and support from. But it's just a small part of the European market. The major EU countries, the major European countries, and especially former Eastern bloc countries, are negative to look at some of these proposals, for which there is a cross-political consensus here in Norway. So once again, it must take a little longer when Norway alone cannot adopt this. We rely on dialogue and the adoption of these decisions with other countries. I would believe that the Council of State will come back to its post and verbally sign out some of the points it has been working on. At least I know, as a representative of the Progress Party, that we have been involved in this area. We are concerned not only with the lorry industry, but also with aviation and the maritime sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1707	I would like to start by giving credit to the proposers for addressing important and relevant issues in putting in place further measures to reverse the development of social dumping and crime in the transport sector. This type of challenge requires effective enforcement of existing legislation and better coordination and coordination of the response factors that society has already put into practice today to tackle the problems. At the same time, we must always consider the need for new measures. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government in this period has already taken a number of measures and that further processes are in progress. This is both about non-discrimination and about justice — that Norwegian drivers are not being competed by foreign drivers who are getting along illegally. It is also highly concerned with safety, safe roads and safe drivers. Badly equipped cars with drivers who do not have sufficient qualifications to master heavy duty vehicles on, for example: Norwegian winter roads are a safety risk that concerns us all. Therefore, it must be a central objective in this work that a wagon train on Norwegian roads should be safe and have safe drivers. We cannot go along with road safety work in this area. This is about life and health for all who travel on Norwegian roads. In order to improve road safety and conditions of competition in the industry and to stop social dumping, we need to have targeted measures. I share the impatience of the representative Sivertsen in this area. I am also pleased that the government and the Council of State have now shown that they are doing important work to improve conditions and that this work is planned and systematic. It is important to facilitate the development and good employment of the Norwegian transport industry in the coming years. The vast majority of those in the industry in Norway are doing serious work today, but unfortunately some people are ruining those who are doing honest and good work. The regulatory framework must be predictable for the actors. It must ensure a level playing field and be enforced in a fair and fair manner. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the work that is now being done by the government, and that emerges, among other things. by the letters of reply of the Council of State. We have expectations that this work will provide further results over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1722	Without the truck, Norway stops. I grew up with that when I worked at Dad's petrol station. It was part of everyday life, and it's equally true today. It's part of the logistics chain for business, for shops, for factories – a part of what makes our country work. Therefore, it is so incredibly important that we ensure that this industry operates in the best possible way, that it is attractive for young people to be recruited into it, that it is attractive for older people to stay in it, that an investor and has proper equipment, so that both are proud of their job, have a good operating economy, and – not least – is a safe and safe driver. We've worked a lot on this while we've been in government. I know that the subject matter has been up to date before us. Nevertheless, we saw that there was a lot of legislation that was far from being as strict as it should be, for example. on vehicle technical items. Some of the first things we did were, for example, tightening the rules for the use of winter tyres, so that not only would it keep winter tyres on the front wheels, but that it should be worn on the entire vehicle combination. The results came quite immediately. The road service, especially in North Norway, could report that the number of Russian trucks that were poorly shunted went down sharply – simply because the probability of being taken and the cost of being taken had gone up, and not least: one did not just take a trip to Norway to make easy money if one also had to have eighteen new tyres for the trip. Then the winnings went up in the spin and I guess so. Increasing the control intervals significantly and making sure that we can use the wheel lock to hold the vehicle back to ensure that they pay what they are going to do are other instruments that have made us more successful now than before. But we're far from the goal, and it's important to emphasize when someone gives the impression that there are us and them in this room: I'm as impatient as those who are now making suggestions, in order to take the next step. But I think that for those who are concerned about succeeding in this, today's government and today's majority are the best guarantor for one to come as far as possible. It's not just to make action plans, it's actually about getting results and getting implementation. And there we see that the work we've done has produced results. But as I said, we're not on target. Within a few weeks, one of my State Secretaries is going to Luxembourg to attend a follow-up meeting at what is called the Road Alliance. It is a collection of countries, mainly from Western Europe, that come together to look at the requirements we have to impose on the international rules that are in place and govern driving licences, etc., of which we all enjoy being international, so that they take even greater care of transport safety, to an even greater degree of care for the serious operators. I don't get excited when I see that Latvian carriers, according to some media, are now recruiting drivers from the Philippines under the pretext that it is difficult to obtain the relevant labour force in their country of origin, i.e. Latvia. That's not how competition should be. Making sure you come to Norway and deliver the goods you have because you have a real delivery, and not just to position yourself in a market that pays well, is another of my concerns. That is why I agree with many of the proposals that the Labour Party is promoting, but what is even better: we are already doing something about it. That is what I think is really a good confirmation from the Workers' Party; they support the government's policy in this area. We can't sit and wait to implement a lot of this – we're already in the process. But there are some challenges, because some of them are about international cooperation. As I said, we have been taking initiatives, and we are trying to invite our Nordic neighbours into this initiative. We're also trying to work better with our Nordic neighbours. For example, it is a little incomprehensible to me that a wagon train that comes to Norway, which has liked to drive through both Denmark and Sweden before it came to Norway, may have major defects and defects without it having been stopped before. There we need to ensure that both the flow of information between our countries and joint control thinking are better coordinated. We need to learn and be inspired. Finland seems to me to be a leading country in some things, and there we should also be inspired. For example: Winter driving licences, for which we have taken the initiative, we have been in contact with our Nordic neighbours, we have been in contact with the so-called Alpine countries to get a joint initiative. They understood our problems after we showed them some videos from YouTube, but they didn't have the same problems themselves, and then it was a little hard to get them to spend a lot of energy on it. That doesn't mean we give up, but we have to have a little different strategies than what we initially thought, just because we have to fight the fight a little more alone than what we hoped. However, ensuring continued good controls, ensuring continued technical requirements to ensure that we work internationally, but also that we take international initiatives where necessary, will be my work hypothesis in the future, and we will implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1745	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1750	For once, the disagreement is limited – you can probably reach out to say. There is a broad consensus that the issues are there, a broad consensus on what are the main problems, but there are slightly different approaches and perhaps different levels of ambition. I will not address the whole debate, but I would like to challenge the Council of State on particular item No. 10 in the proposed representative of the Workers' Party, to assess measures to make the goods owner responsible for the transport. In the letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that the Directorate of Roads has carried out a review that clarifies responsibilities in a good way. That is, to the extent possible, the formality attached to it. But I want to hear the political reflections of the Council of State, whether this is a dangerous path, because the control regime has come into being, there are many controls, and we still haven't brought all the problems to life. In a more preventive strategy – could this be an interesting strategy to use?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1758	It's an interesting problem to look at, absolutely. So at the same time, how do you give actors authority to something they can't actually have special responsibility for? The towing vehicle that picks up your container may have everything in place, but then you get a reload relatively shortly after. Is it still the product owner who is responsible, when the operator has been serious about the product owner, but has deliberately broken the law? That is where I believe there may be some unfortunate aspects that affect even the most honest buyer, and that is where we have to put the main responsibility for this on the driver, on the owner of the wagon train, on the company. At the same time, we need to be even better at making sure that commodity owners are conscious of their responsibilities. When they see a vehicle outside that is not in good condition, they shall actually stop the combination and not allow it to run. They should be aware of where they buy things, just to make sure that there is more control than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1767	I thank you for your answer. I recognise that there is a problem of demarcation related to any provision about it, for which it is necessary to make a more detailed assessment. Therefore, the proposal is also to consider measures. As a follow-up to that, I would like to ask the Council of State: could it be interesting in this context to try this out, as part of what is point number of the draft representative? 11, a ‘strategy for the sustainable purchase of transport services from public authorities and agencies’? To put it another way: will the Council of State take the initiative to assess whether, when purchasing transport services, the public could set up some form of ethical regulation against which to measure and be held accountable, where, of course, part of the demarcation issue that the Council of State had discussed in its previous answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1774	I already have that kind of problem on my block, just to get an overview of what demarcation problems you have. We should also be aware that the company that can be a good company in the eyes of someone will be a bad company in the eyes of others. It's where it's so important that we can be predictable, so that we don't hit small businesses, who don't like professional buyers, but who put out a bid in good faith, and then they come in a situation where those who finally carry out the mission are not the ones they thought. It is precisely in the kind of issues we need to help: the transport industry, the transport buyers and the authorities together must make it even easier today to be an honest buyer, and make sure that it is the honest transport companies that are winning, and not the ones that find loopholes in the law, it is the driver, the vehicle or the like.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1783	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1801	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines limited to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1810	In this case, the proposers believe that if ships carry out work that is a petroleum activity, the Working Environment Act shall apply. They therefore ask the Stortinget to ask the Government to amend the Regulation so that the Working Environment Act can be applied to what is referred to in the proposal as ‘multi-purpose ships’. The Committee has held consultations on the matter and has split into two parts. I'm going to talk about the majority's view and attitude today. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation, and not least the Council of State for having contributed positively to the information on the matter over several periods. Norwegian petroleum activities shall be world-leading in health, environment and safety. In 2016, the Petroleum Inspectorate, Ptil, on behalf of the Ministry, provided a detailed account of the use of so-called multi-use vessels, including submarines, on a Norwegian base. The title of the report is ‘The use of a ‘multipurpose vessel’ on a Norwegian base’. The Petroleum Authority concluded that the legislation is clear but clarified that it is complex. I would like to warn against the concept of «oilworks on board ships» compared to all others working on the same ship, because on a ship there are also skippers, sailors, engineers, motorists, sailors, cadets, apprentices, and employees in the kitchen and in the cleaning unit. It is not appropriate for different professional groups to have different legislation and supervisory responsibilities, depending on what is actually done on board the same ship. Few of the Norwegian controlled ships, whether registered in NOR, NIS or under other flags, are exclusively engaged in work on a Norwegian base. They may be engaged in short or longer missions, sailing in other waters and for other contracting entities during the same period with the same crew. We have the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is the superstructure of international law for all activities in the sea. A crucial element of the flag State principle is that there should be one jurisdiction on board and that it should not change depending on where the ship is moving and staying in the world at all times. Otherwise, maritime legislation applies in the country where the ships are flagged. The report states that, based on the information available today, despite the claims made by the proposers, more and more production or drilling and well work is being transferred from traditional petroleum appliances to vessels. At the Committee’s hearing, both Ptil and the Norwegian Shipowners’ Federation stressed that claims in the proposal for a representative were incorrect and that the legislation, on the contrary, was well in line with technological developments, and it argues that it should in fact also do so in the future. So here the proposers in several of the points in the proposal have been inaccurate or incorrect in their description of the current situation, and we agree with the Petroleum Authority that the description here is wrong. Over the last few years, the whole oil and gas industry has been in a difficult transition. Tens of thousands have lost their jobs or been outsourced, and the uncertainty has increased for those who remain in the industry. The right is therefore very concerned about facilitating the creation of more new and profitable jobs in this sector as well. A significant part of the conversion is not only about significantly reduced oil prices, but also reduced costs associated with the expansion, operation and maintenance of the socket is a crucial factor in the conversion. In a number of jobs, employees have voluntarily opted for wage freezes and wage reductions in order to secure their jobs, and downtimes and tight economies have set the agenda for the entire industry. Menon Economics has assessed the consequences of this proposal on behalf of the Norwegian Shipowners' Federation and Norwegian oil and gas. The conclusion is a market loss of more than 45 billion. DKK over 10 years. And there'll be about 21 billion. kr in increased costs related to the closure of fields. This is confirmed by Statoil at the hearing, and the right is very concerned about the signals that the Workers' Party is once again exposing Norwegian Socket. Today, there is a framework regulation that could solve some of the challenges, which is not used at all by the social partners. At the hearing, the Swedish Shipowners’ Association said that there were so many errors with the representative proposal from, among others. The working party that it has given the whole proposal the wrong premise. Norwegian Industry argued that the consequences were so dramatic that it should not be adopted, and Norwegian oil and gas presented a report that claimed that the proposal could generate tens of millions of lost revenues for the state and increased costs on Norwegian pedestal. The Council of State has also dissuaded the Committee from adopting the proposal. That is why the Committee rejects the draft representative and recommends that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1831	I want to start by saying that I am pleased with the commitment of both industry energy and maritime organisations, employees' organisations, to maintain a line that has been on the line since the oil age's beginning in Norway, that our goal is to be the leader in health, environment and safety – security within an industry that is trading too much money. That is also the background to the proposal that has been put forward. The current legislation has existed for decades and since its adoption there have been significant technological changes in the oil industry, which is recognised by all parties at the hearing. From this point of view, we have proposed a limit rise, so that we will not end up in a situation where, in the case of things that have previously been covered by the Working Environment Act, because it is moved from rig to what at least for a layman looks like a ship, is to avoid having to comply with the Working Environment Act. Let me underline: for our part, it is not appropriate to challenge the flag state principle that is related to shipping, but it is timely to clarify the interface between when we talk about shipping and when we are talking about oil business. That is the background to the proposal. Even at the time of the adoption of today’s legislation, Section 4 of the Framework Regulation drew up the possibility of making the Working Environment Act applicable to areas related to oil-related activities to which it does not apply today. So also the Petroleum Inspectorate in the hearing stresses that there is a tearing technological development here, and that it is therefore good that this matter is raised for discussion in a way that can best take care of in Norwegian tradition in terms of safety, health and the environment. We take that hearing seriously, not only the employer party, but both the employer and the employee parties, who have quite different views on this matter. That is why we are committed to taking account of technological developments and adapting the legislation to them, best resolved in tripartite cooperation, where both sides of the table are taken seriously and not just one side is heard. Then we have registered that after this proposal for a representative was tabled, on 7 March, the Council of State was busy convening a meeting with the parties to discuss this matter. I assume that the Council of State then actually believes that it is an important discussion to take, and that we should uphold the principles of good health, environmental and safety standards in our activities in the North Sea. It is a bit striking that it was only when Document 8 was presented that the initiative was taken by the Council of State. But it's good that it's taken, and that there's now conversations with the parties to go through this complex. I note that despite the consistent argument of the majority voting position, it appears that there is a real issue that has been raised, also ends with the conclusion – and I am pleased – that the government is now going to go through the matter. I think that is quite interesting and enough an example of the fact that, in terms of the working environment – and in the same way as measures to combat crime and social dumping, or, for that matter, measures to combat unemployment – yes, it is only when pressure comes from outside that the government takes up proposals to talk to the parties. That being said, that's good. This is a matter that is going to be in dynamic development in the future. Technological developments are not completed. That is why we believe – and that is what the proposed proposal says – that the best way to do this is to start and implement work with the parties as quickly as possible with a view to applying the Working Environment Act to what is actually an oil-related activity. With that, I take up the proposal that is in the setting, from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1848	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1853	I come from a state of long and proud maritime traditions. East Agder has been attached to the sea ever since the first Northmen came here. Maybe it actually came over the water. Throughout the sailing season, the sea was one of the most important jobs, and many young people from all over East Agder, and many from Arendal, worked at sea. Take Merdø, for example, an island in the municipality of Arendal: it was already on Dutch charts from 1580, which proves that Arendal was an early town of navigation. In recent times, we have maintained the strong link with the maritime industries, and since the beginning of the oil adventure, we have also gained close and good knowledge of petroleum-related activities. Just as the last business has gone on both at sea, under the sea, to land and also through all the time on boats. Therefore, I would argue that getting more involved in safety at sea, safety and orderly employment in offshore activities and the long-term sustainability of the industry than the people of the West and South. For those who have had their livelihoods at sea or in offshore activities, it is obvious that there can and should be different legislation. At the same time, these legislation is fundamentally just as focused on safety and the well-being of workers. That is why, in fact, I think it is reasonable especially when the proposers here today make it appear that they are fighting for the rights of workers. What they're doing is fighting to introduce a code at sea that's in no way designed to be used at sea. And the worst thing is that they do it when we already have a very good code for those who work at sea. The rapporteur, Mr Kambe, has explained very well why the opposition's proposals should not be adopted or taken forward. They have simply forgotten, ignored or ignored that today's legislation is better suited to regulate activities at sea. The Council of State has also made it clear in its letter to the Committee that the proposal should not be implemented in its present form. At the same time, she works with the parties to build a stronger common sense of reality. Perhaps the opposition here in the hall could also benefit from a more appropriate and appropriate understanding of reality. If we were to take the opposition's proposal further, it would – at best – result in a high extra cost for the petroleum activity on Norwegian base. That such an extra cost would destroy the economy, and thus send employment right to the bottom, is safe. What do the voters really think about this? Do the voters know that the so-called Workers' Party will actively make Norwegian jobs unnecessarily less competitive? At least I want to assure those who work in the petroleum industry that their jobs will be safe and secure. I also want to make sure that it is far better to build on the good law we have than to introduce poorly adapted laws in fields for which they are not suitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1874	Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party does not have a representative of the Labour and Social Committee and has therefore not participated in the discussion of this proposal. Therefore, in the absence of comments, the position of the Christian People's Party will be highlighted in this post. First of all, it is important to establish that the changes we are making are well-lit, and that all parties have been addressed. This means that both investigation and consultation are important in order to obtain facts on a case and to ensure that we know what we are doing. The Christian People's Party has therefore not been able to support the original proposal with a short deadline for amending a regulation. I also note that two out of three parties promoting the proposal have also amended this proposal along the way. This is wise. The Committee's configuration shows that this is a complex multi-intercept field. The Christian People's Party believes this shows that it is necessary to exercise some caution. When the employee side and the employer side have such a different view of the current situation, it is important that a common reality is first established. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that, in its reply to the Committee, the Council of State states that the Council of State has taken the initiative to invite the parties to a joint work with the aim of achieving a more common understanding of reality as a starting point for further discussion. The government will then come back to the question of a crash message on the safety of the petroleum industry, which is scheduled to be presented in late winter 2018. One of the most important carriers in Norwegian working life is tripartite cooperation, where consideration for all three sides has been balanced in such a way that we get high value creation and good employee rights. The Christian People's Party therefore agrees with the majority that it is important that the working group set up by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to discuss the issues of multi-purpose vessels, to create a common sense of reality, and that the government returns to the Great Britain with the result of this work. That's why it's not right to make other decisions now, since there's all this work going on, and the Christian People's Party supports the majority in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1889	It's an important thing we're discussing. The matter is that we have to fill a legal space with regard to the activities on our socket related to oil business. So it's about making the Working Environment Act work, so that we can get things right – easy and simple. There is broad support from the trade unions that are engaged on the base and know the conditions, both from Industry Energy and from maritime organisations. What surprised me was that there was such a cash rejection from the employer's side of the Norwegian Oil and Gas and Norwegian Industry NHO association with their prominent representatives Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and Stein Lier-Hansen, who presented their position in the committee in a way that, in my opinion, clearly overlooked the economic consequences of all of this. It has been said that there were errors in the proposal submitted by the representatives of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. I ask those who are particularly interested in the content of it, just to read the letter of the Council of State of 26 April 2017, then one can see what are the realities of what is called false representation. There are clear shades that are far from the proportions that the rapporteur and the chairman of the committee initially said here. What is central on the part of the majority is that they refer to the report of the Petroleum Authority and that it pointed out any grey areas. That's not right. At best, it is deficiently described, as the Petroleum Control Authority has dealt exclusively with its own scope today. This helps us in the Centre Party to believe that the core of the issue is not addressed, namely how the working environment and safety are ensured for oil workers on multi-use vessels in line with their colleagues on mobile devices and fixed installations. Furthermore, there is no discussion of the implications that a complex regulatory framework can give, especially for employees, by the majority. The majority generate increased compensation of employees as a negative consequence of the introduction of Norwegian labour law. Is that really a lucrative argument? Have we really got there now in the main hall that compensation of employees is a dormant argument? In which other parts of Norwegian working life would the majority dare to use such an argument? Is it so to understand that the majority really believes that the work environment law in Norwegian working life is costly and therefore undesirable? I would say it's rather shameful that wages are set up against the introduction of work environment law. And what has been the entire flagship of the Norwegian supply sector and those operating in the North Sea has been that we have conditions in the North Sea that make us world leaders. It could be a major loss of reputation for Norwegian companies operating on Norwegian pedestals if one follows up the arguments they have put forward to the Committee in this case. What is then the Center Party's errand is that we should have a world-class security on a Norwegian base. Then we have to make sure that the space is sealed and that we get a clarification on the scope of the Work Environment Act. That's why we were involved in the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV, yes, we had an active role in working for it, and it's quite special when we now learn that when we get here today, the Center Party is alone behind the proposal that was promoted. And there wasn't anyone who promoted it on behalf of neither the Workers' Party nor the SV. So we are on the proposal. We know that the hearing and the debate we have had has shown nothing that the need is not present in the same way as when we presented the proposal. There is no new material knowledge in her that makes us go back on the proposal that is, and we see no reason to follow up the arguments that the representatives of the NHO, that is, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and Stein Lier-Hansen, have presented to the committee. That is why I would like to raise the proposal of the Centre Party. At the same time, I would like to say that the Central Party subsidizes the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV in the situation in which we are then faced if the proposal of the Senter Party is voted down.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1904	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has promoted the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1909	Norwegian petroleum industry must and must be world-leading in terms of health, environment and safety. This is the basis for the entire Norwegian petroleum industry, and I am pleased that all the parts of the Stortinget end up about this commitment. The left is occupied with safety on all vessels in Norwegian waters. We believe that those who work on board a ship should, as far as possible, work under the same regulations. Therefore, I am concerned that the proposers want to separate oil workers on board ships from others working on the same ship. It's a concern I and the Left share with the great majority and the Maritime Association. The legislation we are using today on multi-purpose vessels is anchored in the goal of being world leaders in health, the environment and security in the future. It is a law that has been upheld by the government since 2005 and until today. It also applies to the government that has resigned from the parties representing the proposers. Another reason why the Left opposes the proposal is that the consequences for safety, health and the environment are highly unclear. Following an investigation of Menon Economics, the proposal will lead to a loss of 45 billion. 2017-krona over 10 years. And then 21 billion. 2017 krone in incremental costs related to the closure of fields that have been expanded or agreed in 2017. This is a huge expense for a proposal that has not been properly distributed, and the consequences are unclear. At a time when unemployment is high in many of our coastal communities, it is not justified to use such amounts on a measure that damages Norwegian competitiveness, without a well-documented impact on ship security. The issue of safety on board a multi-purpose vessel is important and hastens attention. Therefore, the majority have gone in to ask the government to return to this question in the big news about the safety of petroleum companies that are scheduled to be submitted in the winter of 2018. I am grateful that the rapporteurs have seen an important issue on the national political agenda, but I believe that this proposal is a little thoughtful and elaborated, as it is suggested by the representatives of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV. Therefore, the Left will not vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1922	It's the workers who create the values of our society. That's the sum of our work that provides the basis for well-being, for distribution, for good life and for good and safe societies where we can stand up for each other together because we work and benefit. In that case, workers must be protected. Workers must then be taken care of. And it happens through a good law. Here we have made a proposal because we have had repeated concerns. We have received repeated warnings from trustees who have chosen to share the purely concrete, practical challenges and experiences they face and who believe it is a political responsibility to be lifted and maintained. We see that the situation is such that it is a tearing technological development, and sometimes it runs ahead of the laws of the labour market, and then it is vital that we make sure that people are adequately protected by the law to protect workers. For SV, it is essential that health, the environment and safety are taken care of, and that what may be of savings and downtimes is not at the expense of social and human security. However, it is also essential to adapt the legislation to reality and to adapt it in a way that provides a safe working day. I can assure the representative Lundtägen that SV has in no way turned in this case – on the contrary – but we have respect for party cooperation and for the processes in progress. That's why we see that a regulatory change by 1 August this year is not feasible. We have also anchored our new proposal with those that apply. The aim is to ensure that activities carried out by vessels in relation to petroleum activities are covered and regulated by Norwegian law, and that there is no doubt about that. I perceive that the Council of State goes very far in recognising the problem we have raised with the proposal, by initiating a process, and I interpret it as an understanding that here there must actually be changes, here there must be action. That is why it is especially important to hear the comments from the Right, from the case-rapporteur in this case, and it is especially important to read the comments in this case. It is a great responsibility almost to reject the whole issue, ridicule the proposal, look at the reports we have received from trustees and workers, and only to buy the description of costs, reality, definitions and problems that came from employers – for here we are talking about an area, a sector, a working life where lack of security can have disastrous consequences. In particular, it is to buy the argument about the economy and costs in full instead of asking the question: what is the cost, what makes the investment in people's security bear the price tag it is claimed to have? We have a tradition in Norway to see that it is a goal to lead the world in terms of safety, health, the environment and safety – that we should lead the world in that field – and that is not the first question to ask what is the cost of having a law that protects people in very fundamental issues of the labour market. Because it's clear that there's a huge cost to society if there's an accident, an unforeseen incident, but those who always have to bear the greatest cost, they're the ones that're being hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1946	The back cover of this representative proposal is claims over time that the so-called multi-use vessel on Norwegian base operates in a legal room. It is important for me to stress that this is not the case, which is also described in the report of the Petroleum Authority on the case, which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has obtained. The Norwegian Working Environment Act applies to fixed devices and mobile devices or ships with well-controlled controls. Furthermore, the law applies to manned diving operations and to fleets. Otherwise, maritime legislation applies in the country where the ship is flagged. This legislation is based on international conventions which each flag State is obliged to implement. In addition, to the extent that a ship presents a risk to petroleum activity, the safety rules of the Petroleum Act apply. So there is legislation today. It is also important for me to stress that the Petroleum Control does not indicate in its report or otherwise in any way that today's regulation is of safety concern. As I have also described in my reply to the Labour and Social Committee, I have met the parties to get their views on the report of the Petroleum Authority and the issues that this matter raises. The meeting showed with all possible clarity that the parties strongly disagree with both the actual situation and the legal space. I believe it is very unfortunate in itself that the parties have so much different understanding of reality, and I believe this shows that there is a need for more knowledge about this complex of matters. As previously announced, I have therefore undertaken a joint effort to achieve a more common sense of reality, as a starting point for a further discussion. The first meeting was held on 9 May, and the parties made it clear that they are positive about the work, and will actively contribute to it. The Ministry has also announced a R & D project – a research and development project – to further identify the use and practice of multi-purpose vessels. The government will come back to this issue in the biggest news about the safety of the petroleum industry, which is scheduled to be presented in late winter 2018. With regard to the representative proposal itself, this is unclear and insufficiently determined on several points, it is clear what consequences it could have and the relationship with international law. For example, as far as the scope of the proposal is concerned. unclear which ships will be covered and which workers on board will be included. I believe that any change to the legislative regime, as the representative publisher implies, cannot be implemented without a sound professional decision-making basis. It is therefore also my view that the proposal should be rejected. In the end, I would like to reassure the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, that my awareness of health, environment and safety on the Norwegian base did not come with this proposal for a representative. I had not been the Council of State for more than a couple of weeks when we got two events on the Norwegian base at the Christmas of Room 2015. First we had a fatal accident, the first one in many years. Then there was a barge in the open air that could have had great consequences. Afterwards, we got an RNNP from the Petroleum Control, which just described that safety might be at a crossroads, and the week after the Turøy accident last year, I sat in the helicopter and took the trip to the Sleipner field, a visit that had been agreed for a long time. That's the way my consciousness around this has been high for a long time, and I also think it's important that we have it. I look forward to the fact that we can later discuss the staging message here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1974	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1979	In the 1980s, after the Bull Committee had put forward its position, there was a similar debate as this, when one included the Working Environment Act also for the floating riggings. Then the ship was also mentioned, but the technology was not yet such that it was relevant to discuss it. As an initial question, I would like to ask the Council of State to reflect on the similarity between the discussion that was in the 1980s, and the discussion that we have here today – if one at all sees that there is some similarity between these two discussions, and therefore also the need to take similar action as one did when the floating riggings were covered by the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1984	It's true that there were many of the same discussions at that time as well. As a result of the Bull Committee's suspension, a number of changes were made to the Working Environment Act and followed up several of the proposals submitted by the Bull Committee. It is a regulation that has also been discussed in connection with this proposal — where the ministry was given a permit to go further. It was a regulation that was never applied, also because it has been unclear what it should apply to. Some of the reasons why it has not been used are, in addition, that you have a code. As I have explained, and as the Petroleum Authority has also clarified, there is a law and regulation that apply today. But, as I said at the outset, several of the Bull Committee's recommendations were followed up at that time, and this is part of the Working Environment Act today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1989	I am pleased that the Council of State, unlike the chairman of the Committee and the representatives of the Progress Party, recognises the issue we are discussing here today. Some of those I have spoken to fear that the release and rejection that is taking place in the Storting today will mean a postponement of the work on the proposal. But the Council of State highlighted in its statement that investigation work is now under way with the parties. Can the Council of State assure those who are concerned that this will mean a long-term postponement, that this is a priority job, and that one can quickly see results, so that one gets cleaned up in what is unclear?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e1994	How big the challenge is, it's really not that easy to say. The challenge of this debate is that the parties stand so far apart, they have so different perceptions of reality and so different understanding of what is a problem – and whether it is a problem at all. So that's why I wanted to take an initiative with the parties. If you're going to do anything at all, you have to try to have a fairly common idea of what the problem is. That's why I wanted to invite the parties to look at this issue. We'll see what comes out of it. I have at least been very open to the parties that I would like to discuss the issues more with them, but then it is important that both parties contribute constructively to finding a common sense of reality, so that one can agree on what might be a problem. And then we'll see what that work entails. Then there is the other work we are also doing, namely the expert committee led by Ole Andreas Engen, which is to contribute to the big business news we are planning for the spring of 2018. The work of the Joint Committee will also be part of that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2001	It is invited to tripartite cooperation, and when you call on the other two parties to be constructive in that work, I will challenge the Council of State a little bit more on what the government sees as their constructive contribution to that discussion, because there is also a need for some political choices and balances to get some solutions on the table. It is interesting to know if a person sees for himself that he will discuss this and come up with solutions that will be on the table in the spring of 2018, whether this is a parallel race, or whether he sees other results and solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2006	Now we have invited two races that will eventually end up in a big message. When it comes to what the government's contribution is, we're going to have to look at what the party sample comes up to, and, of course, what the expert committee is coming up with. I have ambitions to be something more than just peacemakers in the process that is right now, but at first I've been busy bringing the parties to the table and getting a common reality of what's the reality out there – and being able to sort out what's the security challenges, and what's pay-and-tariff issues. In the meeting that has been, it is not quite obvious what is what. We as a magnificence and government are going to look at law and regulation, and pay and tariff issues are not going to get us so much involved, others have to take care of that. We have to sort out the issues first, and then we'll see how we'll follow it up afterwards – whether or not there's something to follow up and that requires action from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2011	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2018	Once again, we are discussing a matter following an important initiative that came from Stortinget. This is a matter that representatives here in the Chamber have raised after we have listened to the concerns that have come from those who work in this sector, who work on a Norwegian base. I am glad that this proposal was promoted has led this matter to begin to roll on, but I must say that I am concerned when I hear the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party turn into their main argument against voting for this that security is set against costs. Of course, it is cheaper if the Work Environment Act does not apply on a Norwegian base. Of course, it's cheaper if we don't make the strict, important demands that we've always made. Of course, it's cheaper if we don't have a requirement for a protection agent. But cheap has never been the argument in Norwegian oil history. And I have to say that I think it is frightening that the Right Party and the Advance Party are now pushing costs ahead of security and making themselves spokespersons for the line on which the industry has put itself. The stories I've heard from those who work in this sector are serious. We must take them seriously in this Chamber. Conditions that are not what we want them to be in Norway are described. I also believe this matter, as it was after the discussion of the Bull Committee, requires a political solution in the end. I think it is good that the Council of State recognizes the issue and initiates this investigation. I believe there is a need for a new regulation, and today it seems quite clear that a new government is needed to put that regulation in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2028	For the Right and Advance Party, it is important to stress that Norwegian maritime industry and Norwegian petroleum industry are safe jobs. We have good employers, we have good unions, we have good trustees, and it is positive to work on board Norwegian ships and Norwegian facilities. This is a matter that has been embarrassing for the Workers' Party. In the hearing, it was almost fluent – if I had been a proposer, I would have been embarrassed – when the Petroleum Control department in one area after another revealed concrete errors in the proposal for a representative. It's quite unusual to experience. It may be that the Workers' Party has become more sloppy under the direction of Jonas Gahr Støre. I don't think this proposal would have gotten through if Jens Stoltenberg had led the Workers' Party today. It was sloppy, it was inaccurate, and it was irresponsible. It went so far that the shipping association claimed that these errors were so serious that the entire proposal was based on the wrong premises. Norwegian Industry asserted the consequences would be so dramatic that it should not be adopted. Norwegian oil and gas claimed that this had so severe consequences for the economy, for rigging and for ships that it should not be adopted at all. And it wasn't anyone – it was a former Labour Party government council that shook its head over the Workers' Party in the hearing, and a former State Secretary from the Workers' Party who did the same. It was embarrassing to be committee leader and see how the Labour Party's inaccurate and sloppy proposals were picked apart, bit by bit. That's why we in the Right said that we are concerned about what signals the Workers' Party sends out to the maritime industry and to the oil and gas industries, which at these times need help and support from dumping and government. The Labour Party also expressed doubts about the NIS Code, which now leads to a massive flagging of Norwegian-owned ships, including on Norwegian pedestals, while the Workers' Party was in control, the massive flagging of Norwegian-registered ships. And now you have chosen to take the fight to press Color Line in the case of the Norwegian flag, which seems to be a core issue for the Workers' Party. This makes it an uncertain maritime policy – if the Labour Party at all has a maritime policy longer – and an inaccurate oil policy, which was also criticised by Norwegian oil and gas. The country has been re-elected by the Right Party Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2039	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2055	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2072	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2088	It seems that things are coming a little fast on us. On behalf of the Committee, I encourage a unanimous vote on this matter. As the department itself says, this is simply a correction of what can be called a real incurrency, both from the department and from the Stortinget side. And it's a unanimous attitude promoted by the committee to correct this incubation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2095	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2111	Here in this case, we present a split position from the Control and Constitutional Committee. So, as the President has now referred to, it is about the reintroduction of what is called the right to strike on the municipal and county lists. It is a majority within the Committee for the reintroduction of this right. The Right Party, the Progress Party, the Left Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party are behind this majority, while the minority, which includes the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, are in favour of the continuation of today's system, which is about the right to cumulation, but not about the deletion. I then belong, as it is to understand, to the minority in the matter. In the Committee there are various assessments of the effects of the introduction of the possibility of deleting the municipal and county lists. The majority claim that it could increase the interest in choice and hence the turnout, while the minority indicates that the studies do not demonstrate that setting up the ironing system is the case. The majority further argues that there is no fundamental difference between a positive add-on, that is, cumulation, and a negative add-on, that is to say deletion, and that both parts should therefore be allowed on a principle basis. The minority's view, which is therefore opposed to this assessment, is that past experience has shown that ironing causes candidates to hesitate because ironing becomes too burdensome. This applies in particular to profiled candidates. This was the reason why the Storting decided to remove the right to strike on the lists. In the view of the minority, this could weaken recruitment and hence our local democracy in the long term. The minority also indicates that, most often, there is a small minority of voters who take advantage of the possibility to influence the lists. The introduction of extinguishment would increase the capacity of this minority to determine the composition of local governments and county councils in an unreasonable way, in the light of the Committee's minority opinion. However, an overall committee – I would have said of course – underlines the importance of local democracy, the importance of participation and the importance of voters' ability to influence. But the minority claim, as has been explained, that deletions do not automatically lead to such a development, and that is why this proposal will not be supported. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party will therefore vote against the proposal on this basis and on the basis to which I can refer in the comments. I assume that there are representatives present in the Chamber who can explain in more detail the majority's view, if that would be desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2126	It was an exemplary quick review of the previous issues that made me a little late. The representative, Mr Kolberg, has now made a factual presentation of the minority's views and, in part, of the majority's comments. I will not unnecessarily extend this debate, because it is a matter that everyone in this Chamber knows the history, knows the arguments for and against – we have had these debates before. So I'm not going to spend a long time extending the debate, but there are some things I want to link some reflections to. The first is that factual feedback is a quite legitimate part of the exercise of democracy, both in Norway and elsewhere in the world. It is not only legitimate, it is also imperative. Me and the majority do not want it to be that way to be elected to representative bodies without resistance. It's a kind of policy development I think would be unfortunate. I think it should be allowed to give factual, negative feedback, and those who make choices have to endure – simply and correctly. So we can't add up to a system where you shouldn't be able to give negative feedback of a material nature. So I don't think it's the kind of negative feedback that makes people think it's not interesting and fun to run politics. I think, above all, it's the inconspicuous feedback that is the big obstacle, and I suspect that if you put up more channels in order to give factual, negative feedback, it could reduce the strength and scope of the unsubstantiated feedback. We don't know this, but it's a question of wondering. So that's the second point that I want to link some reflections to, and that's what's going on to increase the interest in democracy and increase the strength of democracy. Election participation in municipal elections in Norway has been a bit shaky, but this is the main reason why it has fallen steadily since 1963. Of course, the Institute for Social Research cannot draw any bastful conclusions, but they go a long way in suggesting that this could increase the turnout, at least in the next elections. Looking further ahead in time, it is difficult to do, but they point out that this could increase the interest in local policy, which in turn might lead to increased recruitment. As I mentioned, the voter is in local elections around 60 pst. There seems to be mutual political agreement among all the parties that we should increase it, for several reasons. We spend millions of dollars trying to get it done. Here we have a method that can be effective and that is free. Otherwise, I would like to refer to our remarks and recommend the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2141	I'm not going to use a lot of words either – we're part of the minority in this case, and the chairman of the committee has explained our views – but just make a few comments. The proposal may seem to be a step towards a strengthened democracy by allowing voters to gain more influence in municipal elections than one has had since 2003. By giving the voters the opportunity to both give positive and negative voice extensions an increased influence will be claimed. And increased influence can cause more people to choose to use their voting rights. When the change to remove the option of deletion from the municipal election list came in 2003, which I find interesting to go back to, this was related to some of the experiences you had over time. One of the problems you had registered was that one by introducing the right of cancellation gave relatively great power to the group of voters who accepted the possibility of deletion. And if most people didn't use ironing, as was the case, the relatively few who did, would really be the ones who decided the order of who entered the municipal government – that is, that one gave a relatively large power to a few people. By reintroducing deletion, it is easier for a minority of voters who choose to delete and correct lists in a systematic way to achieve a result that may actually be contrary to the wishes of a majority of voters who have chosen this list. The re-introduction of extinguishment could give greater influence to those groups of voters who wish to avail themselves of this option at the expense of the actual majority of voters. Then we should also be aware that making choices for someone can be a major challenge when you know that deletion is a legitimate tool. Many local parties are struggling today to recruit people to their electoral lists by local elections, and there is little doubt that the introduction of the ironing option will increase the problem of finding sufficient numbers, in the many small and large municipalities, who want to work politically in the local communities. Studies carried out over time in the municipality of Kristiansand, while deletion at municipal elections was permitted, also showed that there were systematic women and the youngest who were deleted over other groups. The same studies also showed that where one was on the list, it was important whether one was subject to deletion more often than the other seemed to be. This is knowledge that, in my view, does not serve as good arguments for the reintroduction of the ironing option. There is no doubt that the strong increase in social media also facilitates the organisation of actions for or against some candidates. And even though no one wants organized actions, we know that this is happening, and it can be easier to do today than before. No one should be interested in introducing an electoral system that facilitates organised actions where the few decide on behalf of the large majority. This is what can easily be the result if a person chooses to cancel a local election. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that re-introduction of candidates on the municipal election lists will neither be decisive for election participation nor have any other positive effects in particular. On the contrary, we are afraid that this will be a system where the few who choose to use the ironing option are the ones who decide too much who enters the local government. This is a negative approach to changing the ballot that we think could actually weaken the recruitment of citizens who want to engage in local politics. If that is the result, the introduction of the proposal we are discussing today is, in fact, a weakening of local democracy, contrary to the justification given by the proposers and those who support it in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2160	As co-rapporteur on this matter, the Progress Party is committed to maximising the influence of voters on the composition of the elected bodies at local and regional level. When we see that the Ministry of Local Affairs in 2009 concluded that the reintroduction of such an option for the deletion of candidates will not affect neither gender nor age distribution in the elected bodies, we will be positive about this. Where positive add-ons are also permitted today, one should also allow negative add-ons by being able to delete candidates. I refer you to the rapporteur's work on the matter and his articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2167	The centre party is together with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party to oppose the change. The vote is taken by someone as an argument to go in for deletion. I don't want to emphasize that argument with a lot of force. What is important for election participation are clear opinions, debate and that we have political leadership in municipalities and county councils that take responsibility, take a position, and – I say – do not act as mayors, who are assigned the tasks of pinching people, cutting strings and participating in the great events. We have too many examples of that around us. In those municipalities, participation in elections is particularly reduced, because the political leadership of the municipality does not appear to be it, namely a management to take the necessary priorities. We have more examples of what I'm describing now, from Buskerud. I will not mention municipalities – I expect those who are well-known to find out which municipalities they are. It is dangerous that political leadership acts that way. That is the greatest threat, in my opinion, to greater electoral participation. It's incredibly important to strengthen community exposure to people. It's incredibly important to get to a greater degree of consciousness, get to a greater degree of commitment. It is the dedicated people who are the strongest ambassadors for people to take their stand. It's the talk that you have around in the many forums, which makes people have to take a stand. What is the basis for democratic development is that we have socially involved people who dare to take a stand and who, not least, understand how much of what is happening in society is the result of political decisions. I get quite startled when I experience around the community that there are so many people who don't care about a sail, and don't understand that those conditions are politically determined. It's really a threat to our democracy that we don't have a greater consciousness at this point. Putting on a municipal list – perhaps especially on a municipal list – is really taking a step into something that is demanding. Then it is expected that one should mean things, and that one should say it more clearly. A sheep's trailer and a sheep's adversaries – a sheep's adversaries and opponents, and a new one's arduous experience. We have a lot of examples of – not least we have found it in the Center Party – that having a strike works so massively, not least on younger people and on women, that it is the first and last time you want to participate in something like this: to say that you should participate in the community exposure with your experience. As a result, a person withdraws from political work. The representative of Skutle said that there were factual negative feedback, and there were incalculable negative feedback. I want to say, one has all the time both factual and insubstantial negative feedback. How to manage to prevent the innocent, I don't have a recipe on it. But at least I know that if there are irons – and we are now talking about irons from our own crew, we are talking about irons from our own members, because most of us are members, we are talking about irons from those who are close – it is incredibly strong to get. I understand so deeply how it affects: Why in the world should I be so legal when I see that I am being treated like this? I would say that cumulating is a positive influence. It works well, and there's little reason to change the system that we have today, based on what I've said. The centre party opposes the reintroduction of voters' ability to cancel candidates in both local government and county elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2186	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2206	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Lasse Juliussen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 2-4, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5 and 6, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left the proposals No 7-9, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the law on kindergartens so that government grants and parental payments benefit the children and that this money does not benefit private kindergarten owners.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the introduction of a legal requirement to ensure equal pay and working conditions for employees of private kindergartens, including pension contracts, as employees of municipal kindergartens. This must be a prerequisite for obtaining public support.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2243	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a new financing system for kindergartens, which ensures predictability and promotes quality.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2260	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure equal obligations in public and private kindergartens with regard to the consumption of children with a right in kindergarten, the consumption of children with special needs, opening hours, etc.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2277	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national overview of compliance and enforcement in the sector with the Children’s Homes Act, which regulates government grants and supervision of private kindergartens.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2294	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2299	There are then 63 representatives who have voted against and 40 representatives who have voted in favour of the Socialist Left proposal. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the law for kindergartens so that funds allocated to kindergartens are allocated to this end and do not benefit private owners.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that employees in private kindergartens have pay and working conditions similar to those of public kindergartens.» The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2326	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that municipalities have access to the same requirements for private and public kindergartens.’ The Central Party and the Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal. The Green Party has also announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2343	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether the right of kindergartens to set up and expand should be changed in order to ensure the diversity of actors, and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens have given their support to the proposal. It's going to wrestle. –
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2355	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2360	As several have voted incorrectly and this is “close race”, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2388	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 4-6, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose the introduction of a pool of skills for highly educated workers in low-level public sector professions.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2415	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to assess whether enterprises with at least 50 annual works must publish average male and female earnings in the annual report.» The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2432	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a new action plan for equal opportunities in kindergarten and primary education, which also includes school leave/activity school.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to require companies with more than 50 employees to publish average male and female earnings in the annual report.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2449	That was originally the Left's proposal, so we should also support them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2454	The Left will also support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2466	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide more services in women’s dominated sectors such as health and care.’ The right-wing party and the Progressive Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2484	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose measures to stimulate more entrepreneurial activity in the public sector.’ The Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2501	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2560	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2569	In the course of the debate, all in all, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from High Jensen on behalf of the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure, including, where necessary, proposing to the Storting that, in order to be able to approve the local toll package initiative, there should be proportionality between the driver’s toll and the driver’s toll returns in the form of new road capacity, improved road quality and increased road safety’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2644	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2654	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2731	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2741	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e2750	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Eirik Sivertsen on behalf of the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 33 Access to zoning key system In order to facilitate the delivery of postal items to delivery mailboxes in mailboxes, the Authority may require the Post Norway AS to provide access free of charge to the zone keys belonging to the main lid in mailboxes. Access to zone keys for access doors leading to such mailboxes shall be agreed between the individual operator and the farm. The Authority may require the Post Norway AS to provide access to the incorporated mechanisms for the management of such keys and access mechanisms free of charge and to develop them into common zoning key systems in cooperation with other providers. The Authority may also require operators or others who have available zone keys to grant access to them free of charge. The administration and operation of zoning key systems shall be subject to transparent, objective and non-discriminatory conditions and shall ensure security and privacy. For reasons of safety and privacy of farm and post-box owners, authorisation from the Authority is required to access the zoning key system. Providers with access to zone keys shall ensure their security. Farmers and mailbox owners covered by the zoning key system may not object to the granting of access to the zoning keys to the main lid in the mailbox facilities of the provider authorised by the Authority. Providers participating in zoning key systems shall cover the costs of setting up, developing and operating the zoning key system on a daily basis, equally or proportionately, in accordance with the use of the zoning key system by each provider. Providers responsible for the recoding needs and/or need for the replacement of key cylinders in a zone shall bear the costs. Where responsibility cannot be established, the costs shall be shared equally between the operators in the zone participating in the zoning key system or proportionately according to the operators’ use of the keys in the zone. The Authority may provide for and adopt individual decisions on the organisation and operation of the common zoning key system, on access to zoning key system and on requirements for providers granting access to such system, including on: 1. cooperation, operation, safety, internal procedures and control systems 2. financing of joint zoning key management at system and zone level, distribution of costs between providers, including entry and exit from the system, and soundness and security; 3. Change and upgrade 4. transition to electronic access systems, including the organisation of the zoning key system 5. the establishment of authorisation schemes for access to zoning key systems; 6th reporting arrangements 7. Responsibilities and limitation of liability The Authority may also provide for and adopt individual decisions on access to keys and other access mechanisms opening mailboxes which are not accessible to the public but which are not part of zonal key systems. ‘... Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be replaced by Section 33. The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3071	It is voted over new § 33a. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3085	The remainder of Roman numerals I to III, all remaining paragraphs, are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3096	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3106	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3115	In the course of the debate, all in all, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Janne Sjelmo Nordås on behalf of the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose a State guarantee for the borrowing in connection with the development of the E39 Rogfast project.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3155	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3171	In the course of the debate, all in all, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Eirik Sivertsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review and assess measures to ensure a level playing field for domestic and foreign operators in the truck industry, including an assessment of the following measures: The introduction of regional protection agencies by model from the construction and hotel, restaurant and cleaning industries. Follow up on the intention to set up a networked registration system for all transport operations in Norway as an alternative to a European register of all cabotage operations. Requirements for winter driving licences requiring smooth running courses for all drivers. Measures to ensure the recruitment of drivers for the bus and lorry industries, including the assessment of training capacity. The need for a multi-daily and rest area plan for large trucks and trailers. That mandatory bombing has to be linked to credit cards. Strengthen and improve the coordination of the work of Customs, Public Prosecutors, Road Authorities, Car Supervisors and Tax Authorities on transport crime, including proposals to facilitate enforcement of the rules on prosecution and to facilitate the submission to the control authorities. Investigate the possibilities of joint transport supervision, as has been done in Sweden and Finland. Consider proposing the detection of incentives for more low- or zero-emission trucks, e.g. a mortgage scheme for older cars which do not have the EURO VI standard. Assess measures to be responsible for the transport of goods, e.g.: by limiting the number of stages in the transport contract chain. A strategy for the sustainable purchase of transport services from public authorities and agencies.’» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3238	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Day Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party, There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up and bring into force, by 1 August 2017, a regulatory amendment that the Working Environment Act shall apply in full to petroleum-related activities carried out by vessels on a Norwegian base.’ [[including, inter alia, construction, plumbing, maintenance and removal]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3264	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the social partners, is asking for review of current legislation and regulations with a view to changing the scope of the Working Environment Act for the regulation and supervision of petroleum activities, so that activities carried out by vessels in relation to petroleum activities are covered and regulated by Norwegian law.’ The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3787	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3797	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3806	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3817	The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3854	Referral case No 385 is proposed to be dealt with under point (e) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure. The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3861	The proposal of the representative to ensure that the Stortinget treats the country’s pensioners with respect through full treatment of the social security settlement in Stortinget has been rejected. I would ask that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with point (b) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure and sent to the Committee, where it should be dealt with promptly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3866	Is there anyone else asking for the word? - Arve Kambe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3871	On behalf of the Right and the Advance Party – and as chairman of the Committee – I support the President’s proposal to reject the proposal. It is very busy in a number of committees, and this is a proposal that could have been proposed and discussed a number of times earlier during the session. There is no urgency about the matter. There is disagreement in the timing of social security settlements, and this year, as last year, the State budget is subject to adjustment in the revised budget. The appropriate time is in the context of the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3876	The representative of Bergstø's original proposal was under § 39c, but when the representative of Bergstø proposes to send it to the committee, I recommend that the Workers' Group support it. In addition, I hope that we can assume that if it is sent to the Committee, it will be taken into consideration by the Committee and later the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3881	The Contracting Party also supports the forwarding of this matter to the Committee and the examination thereof, and that the matter can be clarified through the committee procedure and the proceedings in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3886	Several have not asked for the word. We're going to vote over the treatment of Document 8:148 S. The proposal has been discussed several times earlier in the session and should therefore be rejected. The President will maintain his proposal that the proposal by the representative of Kirsti Bergstø be dealt with in accordance with Rule 39, second paragraph, point (e). The proposer wishes the proposal to be dealt with in accordance with point (c) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure. We are now going to vote, and there is an alternative vote between the President's proposal and the proposal by the representative of Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3908	Further references were made: 2nd@item: inlistbox Amendments to the Ship Labour Act [[386]] [[2016-2017]] Onest. : To be sent to the Labour and Social Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-23.ana.ud353e3918	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
