ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e39	Honourable co-representatives! Former Central Party Depositary Representative, Aslaug Fatum, died on November 13, 2016, at the age of 91. Aslaug Fatum was born in Sem in Westfold in 1925. She had a long and rich life working for the Center Party, but also for a number of organizations. One of them was the wife-in-law, where she had several different jobs. Aslaug Fatum was the Central Party representative from Westfold on the Stortinget in the period 1973-77. She sat on the social committee, although she had probably felt more inclined to sit on it as at the time had the industrial committee. As social policy spokespersons, she was prominent in a wide range of fields, including family policy, kindergartens, care for the elderly and health. She was also very concerned about business policy, agriculture and the conditions of seafarers. As a staging representative, she had a broad local political background. She joined the municipal board of formerly Sem Municipality in 1967 as a representative of the Center Party and sat there until she was elected to the Stortinget in 1973. From 1979 to 1983 she was a member of the Westfold county council. She herself said in an interview that participating in organisational work and politics is training in the art of working together. Education was not a matter of course when Aslaug Fatum grew up. That may have been the reason why she became heavily involved in adult education and in cooperative studies after she left the Stortinget. She was the head of the Building People's Study Association, the Center Party's Study Association and central government member of the 1979-83 Party. In 1984 she was awarded the Central Party’s Medal of Honor. Aslaug Fatum also had a number of jobs in business. Among other things, she was in Statoil's rule much of the 1980s. There was a very important period for Norwegian oil activities, including: Statoil was split up and DAI was established during that period. Aslaug Fatum went thoroughly into the matter, and she stood for a practical policy where the wish was to produce results. She had a lot of respect for that. She was hardworking, and in the Vestfold Center Party the expression "Fadium Days" arose for the days when she traveled around the county. It was travel days that lasted from early morning to midnight. We remember Aslaug Fatum with great gratitude for the work she put down for the Storting, and brightens peace over her memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e68	Representatives Gunvor Eldegard and Hege Haukeland Liadal, who have been on probation, have once again taken their seats. The called alternate of the South-Trundellag County, Ferhat Güven, now takes the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Fredric Holen Bjørdal on parental leave from 20 February to 5 March from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the leave of the representative of Mr Inbjørg Amanda Vogskesen for the period from 21 February to 23 February to take part in the process of travelling with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to Armenia from the representative of Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on leave from 22 February to 24 February to attend the OSCE Winter Meeting in Vienna On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For East Agder County: Lene Langemyr 21-23. February For More and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve 21-23. February For Telemark County: Hanne Thürmer 22-23 February
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e133	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e138	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Kirsti Bergstø and myself, I will present a proposal for a profit-free kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e143	The representative, Heidi Greni, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e148	On behalf of the representatives of Jenny Klinge, Ivar Odnes and myself, I have the pleasure of presenting a proposal to investigate how the distribution of government jobs affects regional inequalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e154	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e159	On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande, André N. Skkelstad, Ola Elvestuen, Pál Farstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal on Anno 2020 – A force for the intangible cultural heritage. On behalf of the representative Ola Elvestuen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the 100th anniversary of the end of World War I – in the Dialogue City of Lillehammer 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e166	The representative, Mr Liv Signe Navarsete, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e171	On behalf of the representatives of Tryge Schlagsvold Vedum, Jenny Klinge, Geir Pollestad and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal that the Stortinget asks the government to stop all ongoing cutting processes in the Homeland Protection Agency, including the Maritime Protection Agency, until the land-use distribution is handled in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e176	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e181	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal for a strategic conversion and phasing out of Norwegian petroleum production in the period 2018-2040 in order to reduce the economic risk of Norway and meet the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e186	The representative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e204	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e214	What we're about to deal with now is not public reading, but it should be. It concerns the enforcement of the Broadcasting Directive, the posting of workers from Eastern Europe to Norway. We're in a situation that, under today's conditions, doesn't produce good results. There is growing uncertainty in the Norwegian working life, as an actor, and this will also lead to that we do not have fair competition between the traders. It's a very complicated thing. There is a great deal of disagreement in the committee. Representatives of the Governmental Alliance and the Workers' Party will present their reasons for supporting the Directives. As rapporteur-in-Office of the Council and as Members of the Centre, I disagree that we are going to base the directive in Norwegian law. It is very demanding and unbridled. It is also confirmed in the Labour Inspectorate’s consultation response on the implementation of enforcement directives in Norwegian law, in the letter they sent on 18 April 2016, which raised many unanswered questions. The Enforcement Directive needs to be seen in conjunction with the 1996 Posting Directive, i.e. enforcement of the practice of the Posting Directive. The Broadcasting Directive is subject to revision in the EU Parliament and the Council, where all 28 countries are represented. This applies to posted workers or service providers from, for example: Lithuania in another EU/EEA country, for example Norway. Where one is posted, the host country is Norway, for example. Where the company is established, the country of establishment is Lithuania, for example. There is considerable disagreement between EU countries about the content of the broadcasting directive, and therefore also considerable disagreement about the content of the new broadcasting directive. To a large extent, there is a conflict between Eastern European countries and Western European countries. At the heart of the issue is that if posted workers or service providers cost the same amount in the host country, for example Norway, such as the host country’s, Norway’s, own workers, the country of establishment, for example Lithuania, loses competitive advantage. This shows which underlying conflicts these two Directives are to deal with, and therefore also how complex today's legislation is, because the legislation is to show apparent agreement, while at the same time there is real fundamental disagreement. The Enforcement Directive will build a bridge over this conflict. And it has to be unclear, there has to be unclear sentences, there has to be unclear concepts, which thus leave all power to the courts – to the Court of Justice of the European Union and to the EFTA Court of Justice. In this way, political realities are taken entirely out of the forums of the people elected and into the judiciary. When the centre party opposes the inclusion of the enforcement directive in Norwegian law, it is because we lose popular control and because we do not have the prior opportunity to know what will result from the application of the directive. A good example is the rules for the collection of payments and fees for breach of the Work Environment Act. If collection in Norway does not result, the central body of the State must use the enforcement authorities of the country of establishment. This means that the collecting country’s collecting country authorities retain the fines and fees collected. This will easily lead to little emphasis being placed on promoting issues from Norway relating to other countries. Furthermore, there is a risk that the countries of establishment are reluctant to collect money, as this weakens the competitiveness of their businesses. This means that the strict instruments are easily lost and are left with the weak instruments, which have improved information to actors on the law in Norway and any changes to Norwegian legislation. Against this background, the Directive is not suitable for meeting the objectives identified by the Riksaudition as significant in its three reports – Documents 3:11, Documents 3:14 and Documents 3:15, all for 2015-2016 – in order to clean up labour market crime, non-payments of taxes and charges and social dumping in public contracts where collective agreements have been published. Finally, the obligation to register non-resident service providers in Norway: following the assessment of the Centre Party, the Directive allows for a requirement for non-resident service providers to notify the host Member State authorities no later than the start of the service provision, i.e. a registration obligation. I would therefore like to address the proposal of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left – and to assume that the Centre Party is in favour of incorporating the Enforcement Directive into Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e233	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e238	As the rapporteur said, we are now going to discuss the implementation of the enforcement directive – or its implementation. For my part, I would like to express my opinion that it is positive that we are now getting a case that makes it easier to enforce Norwegian pay and working conditions for Norwegian workers. I must be allowed to say that it seems to me that I come too rarely from the government. This time, too, the initiative comes not from the government itself, but from the EEA Agreement. There are challenges to the free movement of labour, but for Norway there has also been an enrichment in a situation of good growth – as we had in the previous period, with high employment – that foreign labour has been able to help us solve the tasks we are going to do here in the country. The problem is when the foreign labour force does not get Norwegian pay and working conditions. It allows this Directive to strengthen. I agree with the representative Lundtigen that it does not go far enough, but it does not mean that it is not an advantage that there is perhaps too little progress in the right direction. The fact that we can follow more closely through the regulation, based on sections 1 to 7 of the law, that the working conditions for posted workers are followed up, and can also comply with them – the fact that we are given regulatory competence – means that we actually get more tools to enforce what the majority says is the goal, that is, better action against social dumping. I would also like to highlight the proposal on the registration of service providers. I am pleased that the Labour Party has brought some more to it, but records that there will not be a majority, at least at the start of the debate. We hope it will come later, because it is clear that for those countries within the EU system that have this type of registration obligation, among other things, it is clear that they have a registration obligation. the report funded by the Nordic Council of Ministers, which came in 2016, that the example of Denmark, which has that type of register, is a good tool to better accompany companies that come to Norway to provide services. We find it disappointing that the government parties and the government's supporting parties will not take part in such a decision. I registered, when it became known that we wanted to promote such a proposal, that among those who spoke, both from the employer's side and from the employee's side, it was a combined positive reaction from those who want to contribute to a tripartite cooperation to a serious working life in Norway. I hope, of course, that it will be adopted, but I hope, if it is not adopted, that it will happen, as in a number of other matters that we have had in this Chamber, that perhaps the government will eventually see that it will have to submit to a political pressure from the opposition in the Stortinget and an overall wish from both sides of industry. Then I think it is sad, as the rapporteur has explained, that the Senterpartiet and perhaps especially SV are voting against. Here, in fact, we're getting some tools to improve the situation of serious work. There are tools that some people are right to say are inadequate, but they're going in the right direction. In the hearings before the proposal came to the Grand Duchy and the hearings we have had in the Grand Duchy, it has been widely agreed that these could be tools that contribute to a more serious working life in Norway. I think the representative Lundtigen is familiar with the concept of ‘hitting the whores and mean merra’ – that is, that it is really the EEA agreement itself, it is reflected in the vote and the comments there, which are to be attacked. The EEA Agreement has been, is and is going to be incredibly important for Norwegian industry in the future. We are totally dependent on the export opportunities it gives us, but we are going to stand on what we can for this matter, and not least we are going to work internationally and at European level in terms of the future of the Posting of Workers Directive, and ensure the right to defend Norwegian pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e253	A prerequisite for our well-being is a common understanding that we must contribute together to the development and improvement of our welfare systems, so that today's young people too can benefit from a well-functioning social community in the future. If we're going to do that, we're going to be dependent on the fact that as much as possible we can contribute by working. Work and creativity are the foundation of our welfare society. Tripartite cooperation in Norwegian working life is often referred to as an important prerequisite for orderly employment in Norwegian working life. I agree. But the working life of the future will require more. Before we talked about Norwegian employment, and today we are talking about Nordic. In the future, we will talk about the global. Where our parental regeneration worked and lived in the same place, there is reason to believe that the young people of the future will be part of a global labour market. Therefore, international cooperation is so important because Norwegian working life operates in an international market. For this reason, the Nordic Council is perhaps even more important today than before because the Nordic welfare community together is to make the preparations for the future labour market in order to preserve our common values. But that alone is not enough; we also need to have European cooperation. For us, this is regulated by the EEA Agreement. As a small country in Europe, we depend on European solutions to Norwegian challenges because much of our trade is between European countries. The Enforcement Directive shall ensure that posted workers receive the protection they require under the Posting Directive. Chapter VI of the Enforcement Directive, Articles 13 to 19, regulates requests for assistance for the collection of cross-border administrative penalties and assistance for the notification of such decisions. The national rules concerned will depend on whether it is the Norwegian authorities that receive a request to assist authorities in other EEA countries or whether it is the Norwegian authorities that request assistance. The Enforcement Directive opens up the possibility for national authorities, in Norway, with the Labour Inspectorate and the State Enforcement Centre, to request the assistance of other EEA States to inform of, or to request a decision on, the periodic penalty payment and the infringement fee. Therefore, the Enforcement Directive improves the ability of the Labour Inspectorate to follow up financial penalties beyond the borders of the country, as well as to exercise stronger supervision of enterprises in the field of the Public Service Regulation. The four freedoms of European cooperation have served Norway’s financial interests in good times when we have had a great demand for labour to do jobs here. Norwegian work today is of serious concern and security. The government is facing crime in the labour market with targeted measures. It is therefore important to support the government’s strategy, which has been developed in cooperation with the social partners, against crime in the labour market. The government is working to determine whether a registration obligation should be imposed on non-resident service providers. This is also mentioned in the Solberg government's strategy against the crime of working life. There was also a request for a hearing at Stortinget. The majority of the civil society in the Committee believes that it is appropriate to await the completion of an investigation by the Ministry before considering whether registration obligations should be imposed. There are challenges in European obligatory cooperation that should be responsible for developing rules for a well-functioning working life. But it's hard to see the alternative. At the same time, we need to balance national interests with European solutions. We cannot opt out of Europe, but we can influence Europe to choose our solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e268	The matter that we have to deal with now is a very important matter. It is an important matter because it is no longer the case that an employee relates to one country — the country in which he lives. It's actually the way we're moving across the bounds. If we look to the future, how we organize, it's not going to be so much less travel and fewer cross-border passages. It's going to be more. We're going to use digital instruments a lot more. When we're going to have something on offer, when we're going to work on things, it happens over the Internet – like, for example. in the sharing economy – and we are going to have more and more new arenas challenging the Norwegian legislation. In addition, we're going to see a working life where a number of providers are going to abuse these possibilities. Then the question is, how do we attack it? The best way to tackle this is through cooperation – international cooperation, cooperation between social partners, etc. – precisely to prevent cross-border labour-life crime. This is important, because if we are to be sure that it works in a level playing field, we must have a system that captures those who do not relate to the legislation. It is also important for us to be able to collect periodic penalty payments and other measures against those who commit criminal activity and not follow up the legislation we have. Then you have to have a contract work at the bottom. It's clear that in the future we're going to have to be led by var. We need to ensure that the regulatory framework is at the bottom as these new platforms are developed. For the Progress Party and the Government, it is very important that we have cooperation in Europe. Over 70 pst. of all goods Norway sells, we sell to an EU country. Is it strange, then, that we also want to be part of a code that governs cooperation in such a way that if someone has left Norway and gone to another country, you can actually get help from the country in which the company is organized to ensure that you get what you want? I noticed that the representative Lundtigen was very concerned that more was now left to the courts. This house is actually part of the power distribution principle. We are involved in making and adopting laws and regulations. We'll do that through the document we're dealing with right now. So it's the courts and other agencies that are going to make sure that this gets in place and gets in place. That's exactly why we have this treatment here today. Of course, we can make a major EEA debate mostly because there are many thousands of directives that this House has been involved in adopting, and there are no other parties in this Chamber who have been sitting at the rudder and introducing as many directives as the party to Lundtigen. Then it's a little strange that when there's a case that deals with a tool against the crime of working life, you go to this pulpit and tell me how bad it is. It would have been desirable if the representative Lundteg had looked at part of the other directives adopted at his own time, when the Senterpartiet was in government. I fully agree that there is a lot that you might have let slip through the room a little too quickly when it comes to the EEA, but this document is an important document to move us further into the future, working with other countries with standardised solutions. Norway is not losing its tools. No, we only get another tool to make sure that we have equal competitiveness and equal opportunities to enforce this properly. That's what the matter is. This is not the big EEA debate. It is a very good measure by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e283	Today's text is the free movement of labour in Europe. It is of great importance to Europe, and it is of great importance to Norway. We've been through a boom in Norway, where we've had a huge influx of workers from other countries. It has been important for the Norwegian economy, it has been important for Norwegian petroleum-based enterprises, it has been important for the Norwegian public sector – it has been important for all the places where skilled Europeans of different nationality go to work every single day and do an important job. The free movement of labour also poses some challenges. It brings challenges that are about making sure that you have good and safe rights, regardless of how you work. That is why we have the Posting of Workers Directive, and that is why we are now receiving the Enforcement Directive, which ensures that rights such as one have as employees who are posted are taken care of. What we adopt today will make it easier for the Labour Inspectorate to follow up financial sanctions in other countries. It will make it more possible to exercise supervision when it comes to general government regulations and several other measures that strengthen employee rights. I must therefore say that it is quite alarming to read the comments from his party and from the Left Party, which are thus contrary to the fact that one should be given a stronger opportunity to enforce employee rights. It's hard to understand. But when I listen to the post of the case spokesperson, I understand a little more anyway. It is not a question of the enforcement directive or the broadcasting directive; it is a question of the intention of the Central Party to terminate the EEA Agreement, that they are against workers moving across borders in Europe. That's what this is about. I also have to say that I am surprised at the Labour Party, which fortunately has voiced this, but which still counts enough to go to the pulpit and attack the bourgeois parties, which, together with the Labour Party, secures multiple numbers for this, which we are quite a few of are important. Why do they do so, while the Labour Party's former and possibly future government partners argue that they are using the right of reservation? The exercise of the right of reservation is a possibility that one has, but there is also something that has consequences. The consequences for the Norwegian economy, Norwegian jobs and Norwegian workers if Norway uses its right of reservation in the EEA here is a very open question. What would this be like if you were to get a new red-green government? Is it true that then the Labour Party decides, and that the Center Party and the SV today mark, are only markings? Or is it that one will get a genuine uncertainty again about important rules for Norway and our important relationship with our closest neighbours and allies? I didn't think it was a small question. The matter we are going to adopt here today is an important matter. It's good that a safe and large bulk of this stuff is coming up for. I think it's alarming that two of the parties here are fighting against. I did not think they explained it in a good way, and I did not think it was responsible either on behalf of Norwegian working life or on behalf of Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e298	In this case, it's important that we look at the background, and that we have a common understanding of the background. The background is the Posting of Workers Directive, adopted in 1996 after many years of pulling fights within the EU. This Directive was intended as a guarantee that posted workers would receive the pay and working conditions applicable in the host Member State. But what happened? Indeed, in 2007/2008, the European Court of Justice completely turned its attention to the understanding of the Posting of Workers Directive, when it was decided that posted workers should not be guaranteed wages that went beyond the minimum wage resulting from laws and collective agreements. What had been a floor for what the host country could require of pay and working conditions for posted workers was made a ceiling on what could be required, and thus the Directive had been amended from a directive which would prevent the most serious forms of wage dumping to a directive which provided a systematic drive for wage dumping. We saw that these judgments divided the EU countries — between countries with labour immigration and countries with emigration — and created unsustainable situations in the labour market. We know that there are almost two million posted workers in the EU, and very many of them have wages and working conditions that are far below the standards in the countries to which they are sent. It provides for the EU Posting of Workers Directive. It is a development that is a direct result of the fall of judges in the EU. The new interpretation of the broadcasting directive is a provocative clear example of the fact that the European Court of Justice could push from one day to the next aside from Norwegian collective agreements and Norwegian labour law. And then it is clear that these judgments triggered strong protests from the trade union movement in many EU countries. This is the background. The background is a logic that is completely reversed, from being a protection to being a driving force for the destruction of the development of working life. That is what we think is the experience when relationships that should have been politically governed are decided by the European Courts. Then we know that the European Commission presented a proposal for a enforcement directive to calm down the situation and, once and for all, clarify the understanding of the remittance directive. However, the Directive is characterised by many uncertainties and will not necessarily improve the situation. There too there have been strong reactions. Instead, it was said that it is irresponsible not to wish to implement this Directive in Norway. I want to say that the irresponsibility is not knowing what you're actually doing. Indeed, while wanting a directive that is so full of ambiguities, the Storting acknowledges that it is ESA, the European Commission and the European Courts that will decide how to handle and enforce the directive. We're going against that. We are going against open-mindedness to submit to Brussels governance – we are going against open-mindedness to waive responsibility and development for the labour market and for the actions we can take to combat social dumping. We believe that this is a responsible policy, and we should like more parties to support us in this, because it is so sunny and unambiguously experienced. When the development of working life is determined by the courts, the workers who lose and the market forces win are the workers who lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e309	The government is working for a good and serious work life. The rules of the labour market must be observed. At the same time, we experience that unprofessional and criminal actors pose an ever-increasing challenge to serious working life. These challenges must be met and tackled. The government presented its revised strategy against labour crime earlier this week. It has been developed in dialogue with the parties. The strategy continues and reinforces efforts against unprofessional actors and labour crime. The criminality of work is often linked to several countries, and in many cases foreign workers are particularly vulnerable. Implementing the Enforcement Directive is just one of several important measures to meet challenges related to such cross-border labour-life crime. The purpose of the Enforcement Directive is to improve compliance with the rules on pay and working conditions for workers. The Directive provides us with more tools for this work: more and better information on pay and working conditions, more cooperation between cross-border authorities and action spaces to introduce new control measures to prevent circumvention and breach of Norwegian rules on pay and working conditions. I believe it is important to cooperate with authorities across borders. Enhanced and more effective cooperation between the Labour Inspectorate and the supervisory authorities of other EEA countries will facilitate the detection of unprofessional operators. The proposal allows the Labour Inspectorate to obtain information on foreign operations on short-term service assignments in Norway, including whether they are legally established and which employees are employed in the establishment. I am concerned that we should be able to detect and sanction breaches of Norwegian rules on pay and working conditions in a fast and effective way. We will no longer have to sit still and see that unprofessional actors avoid responsibility by just leaving Norway. The proposal to implement the cross-border cooperation rules of the Directive will provide the Norwegian authorities with a more effective instrument to impose fines, fines or periodic penalty payments imposed on non-resident service providers on short-term service missions in Norway. I would also like to stress that the Enforcement Directive provides us with scope for action to introduce new control measures and instruments to ensure compliance with Norwegian wage and working conditions. The Directive mentions, inter alia: the possibility of introducing a registration obligation for non-resident service providers. Such a registration obligation has also been included in the government’s revised strategy against labour crime. The Ministry is examining whether such a registration obligation should be imposed. I would also like to point out that the Directive does not only allow us to introduce new control measures and instruments to comply with Norwegian pay and working conditions, it is important that we also retain the measures we already have, such as the clean-up authorisation system, the HMS card and the joint and several liability of the Public Service Act. The government's proposals for implementing the Enforcement Directive will provide us with a common European platform to combat labour-life crime. The ability to reconcile resources and supervisory authorities across borders improves our ability to ensure a good and serious working life in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e328	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e335	I just want to make it clear – to the extent that in connection with Rotevatn’s contributions – that where I disagreed with the government parties, they were voting against our proposal to introduce registration obligations. Therefore, this is my question to the Council of State, which is now saying – after a long process with this Directive, where the recordings of the obligation to register have been recorded in the consultation round – that an investigation on the obligation to register should be started: what is the reason why the government cannot – such as this. Denmark and other countries have introduced this registration obligation, such as in particular the transport industry, but also other parts of both the employer and employee sides are concerned with implementing it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e340	It is true, as the representative says, that the transport industry in particular has made the kind of recordings. I think it makes sense to have that kind of registration, too, so that we get a better overview. What the government has said is that we want to know more about how it should be done, or whether this registration obligation can be introduced, and that is why it is also committed to our strategy to combat crime at work. I can promise the representative that we will work quickly and effectively with that investigation, so that we can come back quickly with how we can possibly do this. I am pleased that there is an opportunity in the directive, and we need to come back quickly to see how it can be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e347	Thanks for the answer. As I choose to interpret what the Council of State says, there is something about that registration obligation being implemented. Does that mean, then, that the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party in the Chamber can equally vote in favour of our proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e352	That doesn't mean that. When I say we're going to figure out, that means we're going to have to think about how to do it first. It is not only the right of the government but also the obligation to determine in a good way how to implement new arrangements. I think it might be possible to implement it too, but before we do, we'll investigate it thoroughly, so we can see how it can possibly be done, and then we'll come back with how we can implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e357	The reason we have this debate is actually the Posting of Workers Directive. There are now discussions in the EU about, among other things, a point that is very important to us, that posted workers should have the same pay and working conditions as at the place where they are outsourced. There has been a Norwegian position, and I would say that in particular our neighbouring country, with Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, but also some other social democratic leaders, are invoking more room for social concerns in the legislation, not least in this area. Then my question is: what does the Council of State do to follow up what has at least been a common Norwegian-Swedish position, and which I believe is the Danish position?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e364	There are now many important debates in Europe on social conditions and on how to create a more serious and tidy working life. One of the points that is now much discussed is exactly what the representative has in mind, equal pay for equal work at the same place. It is part of the new proposals of the European Commission’s proposal for a new broadcasting directive. Norway’s position in this debate has been the same as in Sweden and Denmark — in Denmark, after they had a little thought about last summer — where there has been an important entry point for us, and it is going to be our position also in the future. I have signaled this to my European colleagues when I have participated in European meetings of European social ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e371	First, I want to give the Council of State a reward for one important thing. Governments say that government is working for a serious working life, while increasing the challenges of implementing it. To be honest. We need more of that from the government councils in the Stockholm pulpit. So it's said that you're dealing with a new strategy. Strategies we have many of them now. Any democratic strategy is based on a common understanding of reality. There are very few people talking about reality in this context. What is at issue in the EU is the content of the broadcasting directive and, therefore, its practice – and therefore, the content of the enforcement directive, which we are now discussing. When there is disagreement within the EU about the broadcasting directive, it has to be unclear. Isn't that fair?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e378	The EU is an organisation with 28 members. It is obvious that there are major discussions going on within a political organization with members from so many countries present. There are discussions going on between countries, there are discussions going on between the political blocks in Europe. But that's what's so great about the EU: it's a political organisation where you have arenas to discuss cross-border issues, as it's in the common interest of countries to solve them together. I have participated in several arenas in Europe. I am meeting colleagues in several countries, and there are now many discussions going on just to solve the common European and international challenges we are facing. Work-life crime is one thing. This directive gives us more tools for that. But there are also many other social challenges, such as exclusion, social dumping, unemployment, which are now promised together to solve. I think that's good, not negative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e383	To resolve any doubts, the centre party is advised to strengthen international cooperation to discuss cross-border challenges. What is at the heart of this is that there are directives that have embedded so much disagreement – and therefore a great ambiguity and a reality that we see in Norwegian working life today, and that we will also see in the future as long as this system works – that there are no instruments in place, because it can be interpreted in different ways all the time. Should not the Council of State soon say that these disagreements and differences of view result in the legislation now becoming Norwegian law being very difficult to operate because there are strongly conflicting interests in those who are going to practice it in this case, whether it be Lithuania, for example, or Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e390	The representative says that the Center Party is for stronger international cooperation. I can hardly imagine which other organisation involves just as strong a commitment as the EU actually represents, on a continent where we have great interests to care for. The EU is an important trading partner for us, and it would have great consequences if we signed up. I am not so concerned that there are political discussions and disagreements. What is important about the directive that we are discussing today, if we are to stick to today's debate, is that the directive provides us with more tools, more ways to combat crime, respect the rights of workers than it had before, for example. in the case of the collection of fees and periodic penalty payments. Once there was no way to do that at the moment the criminal actor left the country. Then Norway stood the checkmate again. With this directive, we now have the opportunity, through cooperation with the other countries, to be able to recover the fees and fees of those who left the country. It is good for Norway, it is good for the other European countries, and it is good for our common working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e397	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e405	The special feature of this debate is that very few argue on the basis of the actual situation in the labour market. Over the past 15 years, there have been very clear complaints that you should have a safe and serious working life, and more and more people experience that conditions are going in the opposite direction. This has recently been documented in the three national audit reports on work crime, on non-payment of taxes and charges and on social dumping in the context of public contracts. The fact that there is a discussion in the EU is of major importance. There is a debate on the content of the broadcasting directive – it has been going on for a long time – and the contradictions within the different EU countries are becoming clearer and clearer. At the same time, a 1996 broadcasting directive that is so weak that the Commissioner for such issues in the European Commission says that if there are no improvements here, it means that strong public flows will lead to major changes in the EU policy system. The opinion of the centre party is that we must have popularised control over the key issues of Norwegian working life. It is no good that we should give ourselves the opportunity to control this, by sending such cases to courts outside the Norwegian law. That's the problem. As SV said, it is important that we continue the good tradition we have had in the past and ensure that we can have the necessary instruments in Norway to ensure this. The main position of the centre party is that we should replace free movement with controlled movement, and that we can thus ensure that we get good conditions. Furthermore, the representative Wenstøb has said that he has a Nordic working life and a global labour market. Yes, but the central thing is that in order to ensure a fair working life and fair competition between companies, one has to have a nation state that gives the weakest one a protection, and that's what we're talking about here. One must have a protection that is under democratic popular control in Norway, and that is at the heart of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e418	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e434	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e443	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on the matter, and I would also like to start by thanking the representatives Lundtigen and Toppe for raising a very important issue by promoting the proposal for a representative that we are discussing today. Permanent employment is the basis for a good working life, it is the safety that can be enjoyed by individuals in the workplace, and it is the basis for organising themselves at work, which, in turn, is the basis for a level playing field in power and positive changes in working life. It is therefore necessary to discuss the relationship with the labour market. The forms of employment – and their premises – need to be debated regularly because we see a development in the world of work that is not fortunate and where the basics of fixed employment and the understanding of what it means are threatened. The proposal for concrete changes to the Working Environment Act has been promoted in order to precisely clarify the content of the law, and it is important to mention it. The purpose is to ensure that the intention of the law is followed. In the past, terms such as «trusted» and «tariff agreement» have been clearer terms. Now we see more and more that these concepts are being watered out and interpreted in the workplaces of the unrecognizable, in the disfavor of the workers. This was also clarified during the hearing on the case, where the Joint Undertaking shared experience of temporary hiring replacing permanent employees and that there is no common understanding of what is a collective agreement or what is a trustee. The employer's side does not support the proposal we have up to today, but wants more investigation and more knowledge. The striking thing is that everyone, regardless of the colour of the lot – government party, support party, opposition party, employee side, employer side – is quite clear on one thing, and that is that the law has to live up to its intention. Everyone agrees that unprofessionalism should be combated, and everyone expresses an agreement on the importance of fixed-term employment. Then I wish it was possible to get a step closer to what we seem to be doing today. I wish it was possible to take a step further than it looks according to the setting. It's not the first time this matter, this subject, is discussed by Stortinget, on the contrary. In the past, SV has made a proposal that a country-wide agreement should be the basis for rental. The Labour Party has made a similar proposal to what we are dealing with today. There are still concerns about the use of rentals, how the law is enforced, and the uncertainties that lie there today. Then it is important to remember that the policy objectives cannot be to describe what is problematic, but to want to do something about what seems to be the problems. That's why I have a very clear opinion, and that's going from problem description to problem solving in today's debate, and hopefully also in today's vote. Finally, I would like to mention proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e458	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e464	In this case, I can agree with the rapporteur that he has now explained. I just want to add one addendum to the thanks, and it is to the case rapporteur, who has done a good job with the matter. This matter is really about something very fundamental in our society, the fact that since the main agreement of 1935, through close cooperation between the social partners and the authorities, we have established some common understandings that are being challenged, in this case: what is a collective agreement? In other cases, what is fixed employment? We have walked around and thought that then you have a fixed job and a certain job size and agreed to pay. Nor is it any longer a truth that is not disputed. However, in this case, the term «tariff agreement». When one sees examples that some take advantage of the lack of legal precision in the law by means of an – I almost kept to say – so-called employer and only an employee and produce a document that is later referred to as a ‘tariff agreement’, which provides the basis for both renting and, in other cases, for other exceptions to the environmental protection law, and we see that the intention of the law is not respected, we must ensure that the law is clarified in line with the intention of the law. For the intention of hiring labour to stop work and that kind of thing is quite different from what has developed in parts of the industry in the manning industry. We have previously had a common understanding of terms such as – as I mentioned – permanent employees, collective agreements and trust choices, but it is therefore still being challenged. There are some players who challenge it, and unfortunately it is also a little deficient, I think, clear settlement with it in some employers' organisations. However, among many parts of the employer’s side and a collective trade union movement, it is clear that a person wants to stick to the perceptions we have previously had of the concept of ‘tariff agreement’. The social partners have also been very involved in this matter. Once again, we hear that the government will look into the matter and investigate and evaluate it. But we believe that development has now gone so far that it is time to make the necessary legislative changes. And let me make it clear that this is not the only clarification that is necessary in the Working Environment Act. I have mentioned the example of regular employment without pay between assignments as another term, perhaps simply the term ‘worker’ in itself. We need more changes to the Working Environment Act to maintain the seriousness of the work that we want, but it seems that it will not happen until after the government change to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e477	I also want to start by thanking the rapporteur for good cooperation, and then of course I want to make some comments on this matter. No one disagrees that fixed employment should be the general rule in Norwegian working life. This is also the reason why regular employment is the general rule in Norwegian working life – no one disagrees with it. It is not that renting or temporary jobs are the general rule in Norwegian working life. It is permanent employment that is the general rule in Norwegian working life. No one disagrees with the need to look at different forms of labour relations. No one disagrees. That's also why it's done. This will be researched to increase knowledge of different forms of association with the labour market. That is also why the majority – Right, Advance Party and Left – writes in the comments that: «we are meeting the results of such a research project and believe that any challenges related to different forms of labour relations need to be considered in conjunction with each other». It is also one of the reasons why we do not support this proposal today. I want to protest a little about this reality understanding that everything is getting worse in Norwegian working life. It's not like that. We have a very good working environment in Norway, and there are many reasons why it is. We have a good partnership, we have a good law, we have serious employers and good trade unions. All of this is linked to and contributing to the well-being of nine out of ten Nordics, and to the goodness of switching to Norway – all the positive things about the Norwegian model. It is not that renting is what characterises Norwegian working life. It is true that we see challenges with rentals in some industries – it is also addressed, it is being researched – but there has not been a rush of many more rentals now than it has been in the past. This is stable. The arguments put forward by the proposers are also recognised – this centralisation tool. Here one does not want to be able to decide things locally in the workplace, but it has to be centralized from Oslo – which is surprising that the Senterpartiet believes. The President-in-Office of the Council, Kirsti Bergstø, said that she would like to see a step further today together. But let there be no doubt: the proposers – SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre – do not want us to join together on these questions. They don't want consensus around these questions. They want to have a conflict around these questions. We also saw that in the debate we had about the enforcement directive right now, where there was a case – it was also in the class struggle a little ago – with this registration obligation. We say, "Yes, we're investigating this." We're not negative about that. But you still make a conflict about it. That's the same thing when we talk about all the issues of work-life crime and all the issues of social dumping. There is no desire from the left on consensus and consensus, and on finding good solutions together. It's just a desire to make a conflict, because they think it serves their parties. So when we explain in the comments why we are opposed to this proposal, we are accused of not taking seriously the issues that exist in this subject matter, when that is exactly what we are doing, because we believe that such proposals must be seen in conjunction with each other, and because we see that we need more knowledge about them. So don't say it's a desire for consensus, consensus, and you have to find good solutions together, because it's not. Here it is a desire for conflict. I would like more parties to vote with the majority today, but I am at least happy that the majority votes as the majority does.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e506	I would like to start by thanking the representatives for including an important proposal and an important topic. I think we all agree that fixed employment is the general rule, should be the general rule and is important. A society characterized by more temporaryity and rental, that kind of thing, is a less society than a society that manages to have permanent employment. For young people in particular, there is a challenge around Europe, where a person chooses to postpone family start-ups, is unable to obtain housing, etc. Fortunately, Norway is different, but it is important to keep busy ensuring that regular employment is the general rule. I have also read the setting with interest. We come from the Christian People's Party – to give an explanation of vote – not to support the proposal that exists. But at the same time, it is good that research is carried out in the field, because, as the previous speaker pointed out, knowledge is positive. It is important to follow developments, but we want more knowledge on the table before we make any changes, because as the majority writes in the notes, there are also some positive aspects of rental today. There is an important need for employers, whether they are hospitals that need skills immediately, or there are industrial enterprises that, in order to accept the job, must be able to have some flexibility in the number of employees. But it's important to follow closely. So it's also another challenge, and that's that one sees some unprofessional actors in the field. Maybe that's what I'm most concerned about. It is social dumping, and the rules are not followed well enough. It is important that, through the commitment to work-life crime, one manages to stop the unprofessional actors, so that the positive aspects of the manning industry, such as that unemployed students get a gateway to society, and then quickly get into work, such as results. by the NHO Service, is not undermined by the fact that unprofessional operators are allowed to shape the market. Finally, I would like to show that when we dealt with the temporary agency directive, we had a discussion about something of the same, and then the Christian People's Party proposed a guarantee payment, so that one did not have permanent employment without pay. That proposal then fell, and I see that there has been a slightly different position in relation to that proposal. But all the time to be concerned about the problem, I will give the representatives behind the proposal praise. However, we will not support the proposal now, but meet with knowledge, and I will follow the field carefully all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e519	I would like to join the rapporteur's briefing. The proposal of the Central Party is a follow-up to Document 8:32 L for 2015-2016 of 17 December 2015, where we proposed that the second paragraph of Section 14-12 be repealed. In the setting in the case, 210 L for 2015-2016 of 15 March 2016, the case was thoroughly explained by the Central Party. The situation today is completely different from when the law was passed, more than 10 years ago. A descriptive evidence of the fact that the then Council of State Erna Solberg wrote in the article «EEA enlargement and transitional arrangements» of 23 February 2004: ‘The government believes that there will hardly be a large influx of workers from new Member States to Norway.’ So we're in a completely new situation, which requires new attitudes and therefore new laws. There is no delimitation in the rental access, which negatively affects Norwegian working life, and especially in individual industries more than in construction. This unrestricted lease-in affects Norwegian working life negatively. Permanent unpaid employment between missions has also been debated in the context of the representative proposals 104 S for 2014-2015 and Innst. 368 S for 2014–2015, where we did not receive a majority, and where it is now free from the practice of the manning industry to offer permanent employment without pay between assignments. It should be a cross of thought for the Christian People's Party, at least. What is the matter in this case is the question of collective agreements. As the representative Dag Terje Andersen said, it has developed a practice in which a person can contact a lawyer and get a collective agreement, and that it is okay in this context. We're not going to have it like that. We have to have neat relationships. The centre party is in favour of a clear regulatory framework with regard to collective bargaining agreements. We are ready for strong, national organisations, which can thus ensure that there is a homonymity in the distribution of power between the employee and the employer. So the representative Heggelund can only settle for the fact that it has been the tradition of the Centre Party – and is our tradition – that in some areas a centralised solution is needed to get good conditions for everyone in Norway. I notice that those who argue against the proposal say very little about the fact of the matter. They say on the contrary that one needs such a system, not least for industrial businesses in the districts. I guess it's to have a little bit of fun with the Center Party that someone's trying out that variant. I can only assure you that we are concerned with proper conditions throughout the country, including in the districts, and not least in agriculture, where this is very widespread. It is absolutely necessary for attractive jobs to be provided also for Norwegian, skilled and skilled youth. This is really central. We are now in a situation of significant unemployment, and then it is not least important to have an orderly relationship. We know that the issue of D-numbers — i.e. the identification needed for those who live in Norway for less than six months — shows that the extent of the persons we are talking about here is very large. That's why it's very important to get an explanation of everything. Finally, the general rule of Norwegian working life is regular employment. It's almost like a spell. I want to draw up a little quote from a letter that Ketil Solvik-Olsen sent to the Control and Constitutional Committee on 13 December 2016. The Control Committee asked: ‘How much emphasis is placed on the capacity of contractors in the case of pre-qualification and subsequent tendering?’ [[self-employed and own machinery]] The answer from the Council of State was: ‘In the case of engine capacity requirements, the company’ — i.e. New Roads — ‘that no specific requirement was made in the prequalification’. It was machine capacity – and then it's fixed employment. There's the answer: «At this stage of acquisition, New Weiger requires a minimum of 10 pst. the contract shall be performed by its own staff.’;» It shows what the legislation is, what the state practices, what leads to an increasing need for manning companies, with the uncertainty and insecurity it creates across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e559	Over the last few years, there has been a lot of debate about the use of rentals and how it affects Norwegian employment. In particular, the construction industry has received a lot of attention, and the proposal for a representative is part of this debate. In concrete terms, the proposal is to amend the Working Environment Act. The law provides that undertakings bound by collective bargaining agreements may enter into an agreement with the trustees locally on fixed-term hiring-in by temporary agencies. I think that's a positive opportunity. The proposers wish to restrict this access to the agreement. As I understand this proposal, only establishments bound by a country-wide tariff agreement will be able to conclude such an agreement, and only if this country-wide tariff agreement opens up. The government is committed to ensuring a safe and serious working life, where permanent employment is the general rule. This is important both for individual workers and to ensure a high standard and quality of production of goods and services. At the same time, there is also a need for some flexibility in terms of temporary employment and hiring-in of labour. In today's situation, with significant conversion into Norwegian business, the need for flexibility is great. This shall not, however, be contrary to the general rule of permanent employment. We see that the use of rentals varies between industries. In general, rents are not large in the labour market. Between 1.5 and 2 pst. by all annual works are carried out by hired workers. This also includes rentals from foreign manning companies, but there has been a growth in the hiring of workers from manning companies in the construction industry in recent years, as confirmed by recent figures from the Manning Barometer to the NHO Service. Both employee and employer organisations have stated that fixed-employment enterprises should be the main model. At the same time, it is understandable that establishments need to complement crews in order to deal with tasks in a fluctuating scale market. However, it is not desirable to hire labour, for example: shall constitute the majority of the workforce. Extensive rentals may also lead to unequal conditions of competition between enterprises using permanent employees and enterprises using rentals. I have been committed to following closely this development and practice of hiring and hiring out labour and the use of other forms of connection. I have also been concerned that this needs to be handled in good dialogue with the social partners. I believe that there is now a need for closer dialogue with the parties to get a further overview of how rentals are used, not least in the most vulnerable industries. This could also contribute to an overall assessment of the understanding of the rules and any need for change. I have therefore started a work with the social partners now to review the relevant questions concerning the hiring of labour. On 31 January of this year I sent an invitation to the main organisations. In the first place, I have asked the parties to propose priority issues in the lease-in area that should be addressed. This work is also part of the government's revised strategy against the crime of working life, which we presented on Monday this week. I agree with the majority of the Committee that it is not appropriate to amend the second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act, as the representatives have proposed. The parties should now have the opportunity to point out the challenges themselves, and we may see what solutions we can propose.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e576	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e581	I'm just going to assure the Council of State that there's nothing in the proposal that there should be no flexibility when it comes to activity stops and that kind of thing when it comes to temporary workers and temporary workers. That is not what the proposal is about. The proposal is that it should not be misused, so we bring the parties into the relationship – not just the employee side, but the employee side and the employer side – to agree to rentals. This proposal has many sides. We already know that there are developing unfortunate practices around, there's no reason to investigate it any more. The need to clean up is clear, and it is really just to establish what is a collective agreement, and who are the partners. But also in this area, the government is going to wait and see and push and investigate. My question then is: wouldn't the Council of State be sure that access to rental was maintained, but that serious parties on the employer's and employee's side were authorised to approve it and in that way, quality assurance of the seriousness of the rental?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e589	The proposal is about the level at which this type of agreement can be concluded. My recommendation in my letter to the committee is that locals are allowed to enter into these kinds of agreements. I believe it is good that the person who wants to notice the consequences of a decision should also be allowed to conclude the agreement. So I think it's positive. But then, as the representative has been in, there are some developments that are challenging in Norwegian working life, and there is also a cross-political consensus that it is important to look at. When I've said that I want to follow evolution, it's because I respect the tripartite cooperation. When there is disagreement between the employer and the employee on what is the challenge, and what are possible solutions, I have to base both considerations. But now I have said that I have to look into this. That is why I have also asked the parties to make representations with a view to finding solutions to the problem, but at the same time it ensures what we all want, namely the necessary flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e596	As I have already stated, I think it is good that when the demand becomes intense enough from the opposition and from the political debate and from the employers' and employees' organisations that something needs to be done, the Council of State initiates an investigation. It is our experience that in the area of social dumping the government must be driven from opportunity to opportunity. But I will nevertheless ask the question when the Council of State stands here and says that it is good that local agreements are made: Yes, we can do that in line with national agreements, but does the Council of State think it is good if one person takes the title of trustee and on that basis writes a so-called collective agreement without it being adequate for those who are actually to be covered by the legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e601	«Worker» is defined in the Working Environment Act and «tariff contract» is defined in the Labour Dispute Act. The question here concerns the level at which contracts for the restricted use of rentals can be concluded. I think it is good that it is the local company that has the opportunity to do so, and I believe you should continue to do so. But at the same time, as many people have been involved today, it is also important to follow the forms of association in the labour market and to see their development and the consequences of the different forms. Let's do that, for example. through several research tasks. Then there is a work started with the parties to look at the use of rentals and especially in the industries where this is a challenge. The use of rentals is largely not a challenge for Norwegian working life. It is used to a very small extent. It's been stable for very many years. However, we see that there is a particular challenge in constructions with a high use of rentals from 2008 onwards, among others. as a result of high levels of labour immigration. Now we also see that the number of immigrants going down, more going home, and the use is quite stable. But that's what we're now going to sit down with the parties and look at. There won't be long research assignments, but now I'm asking them to make concrete recordings, and then we'll see how we're going to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e608	We have – and we are going to stand for – the line that in Norway we are going to have a very strict work environment law, and we are going to have very well-known powers to exempt from the law of organised labour. That's the arrangement we've had up to now, and that's the arrangement we're going to continue. What is the problem with the situation as it is now is that it is more favourable to the unorganised working life. So it's not stimulating the position of organized labour, and I wonder if the Council of State sees the dilemma that the unorganized, sometimes unprofessional, parts of business can now use today's formulation and that's why we need to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e613	I see some challenges with that. And that's exactly why I sent a letter on 31 January to all the main associations with contributions to how to solve exactly what is going on about renting. I see it's a challenge. But then the question is how to deal with the part of the lease-in business you don't want, without simultaneously destroying for the part of the lease-in business that I think everyone wants you to have. That is the balance that is important for us to be able to maintain. That's what I'm now inviting the parties to join in, and I'm absolutely sure we're going to come up with some good solutions there. The parties have stood far from each other until now, but I hope that we can see a movement, that we can find solutions that are desirable and practical for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e618	The case concerns Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act, and it does not apply to the first paragraph of Section 14-12, which concerns temporary employment, it is a completely different matter. The case concerns the second paragraph of Section 14-12, requirements for professional organisation. My question concerns: What requirements does the Council of State impose on a trade union according to the legal text currently in force – what requirements for activity must it have in that trade union? Second, the Council of State reports that the hired labour force is very small, 1,5-2 pst. of the total labour force in Norway. Can the Council of State define the concept of hired labour? And can the Council of State come with the source of those figures?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e627	There were a lot of questions here at once. Yes, it is true that the amount of temporary employment is 1.5-2 pst. It has been relatively stable over time. We've seen some increase in the last year, and the main increase is in education, health and care. The last quarter figures from the AKU show that it is a flare, and it is based on the AKU figures that show the development of temporary employment. What's part of the challenge with the AKU numbers is that you don't see what kind of law support is behind temporary employment. But based on what people say, it's 1.5-2 pst. We see it, among other things. from NHO Services reports. So it's been pretty stable. The law employs either permanent or temporary staff. The general rule shall be fixed employment. The government opened up to make it easier to hire temporarily, but also with the limitation of how long one could be temporarily employed without getting fixed-term employment. So you opened up something, yeah, but you also had a constraint in length.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e634	From the answer I would ask to get the source of 1.5-2 pst. in writing, especially when reference is made to the NHO Service. My next question is about permanent employment. I referred to the letter of the Solvik-Olsen State Council of 13 December 2016 to the Control Committee, which is the premise of this, from the New Vejer tendering procedures, which are the government's flagship, that «minimum 10 pst. the contract shall be performed by its own staff.’;» How does the Council of State say that this is in line with the fact that the majority of the company's employees are permanent?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e643	It is difficult for me to comment on the tender documents for New Roads. I haven't seen them. Government acquisition rules have now been tightened up, with several important changes for, among others: to prevent social dumping. Very familiar are New Roads among those who demand pay between assignments, which in that case would be a clear limitation. The representative Lundtigen asked me a question in his first line that I was not able to answer, as among other things. was about the definition of what is an employee. As I mentioned in my reply to the representative Dag Terje Andersen, it is defined in the law, just as the «tariff agreement» is defined in the Labour Dispute Act. I don't have the absolute definition completely present now, but it's defined in those laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e650	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e668	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e687	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to introduce a registration obligation for non-resident service providers in Norway’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e748	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e760	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e775	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e784	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] is amended as follows: the first sentence of Section 14-12 is replaced by the following: [[2]] In activities linked to a country-wide collective bargaining agreement, the employer and trustees representing together a majority of the category of employees to which the lease is subject may enter into a written agreement on fixed-term lease-in without prejudice to what is provided for in the first subparagraph when such lease-in is based in a country-wide collective bargaining agreement.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e817	Case No. 3 is the second time the law has been passed and concerns the law decision 52. There are no proposals for comments, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-16.ana.ud536e833	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
