ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e28	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e33	On behalf of the representative Kirsti Bergstø and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on a coordinated and offensive strategy for the further development of North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e38	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e54	On Friday 28 April, the Stortinge received a notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Solvency Horne, Bent Höie and Terje Søviknes will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We will then start with the first main question, which is from the representative of Torgeir Micaelsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e63	At the national meeting of the Labour Party almost 14 days ago, we announced that we believe Norway should aim to be the best in Europe on e-health by 2025, because the proper use of digital tools can improve patient safety, increase the employment of our great health workers and not least contribute to the fight against serious diseases. At the same time, however, we announced that there is a vision and a goal it is not possible to achieve without the level of ambition being exacerbated, because Norway has good chances of success, and several health regions have already done a great deal of good that now opens up greater interaction between patients and hospitals than before. But the regions have chosen different strategies. It seems to be a consensus that the patients in the West and North Norway have come out the best so far. There they have largely chosen to develop this digital core wall in hospitals under their own control, with their own employees. Here in the East you go the other way. Here, the country's largest health region has chosen to outsource the operation of these systems to a foreign company, and it was done last year. This provision and the agreement, which I understand is that the department of the Council of State Bent Höie has also been involved in at some point, is now being asked a lot of questions. Today, the NRK reports that 110 foreign IT workers may have had full access and extended rights to the computer system, which is also about patient data in Health South-East. This is – if you want to be the best in Europe on eHealth – very worrying information. My question to the Minister of Health is therefore: can the Minister of Health, as the top responsible, now guarantee patients in our largest health region that IT workers in Bulgaria, Malaysia or other countries are not able to access and view their patient information?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e74	First to the overall picture. It is very gratifying that the Labour Party too is now ambitious about Norway’s opportunities in the field of eHealth. When I took over as Minister of Health, I received three reports on the status at that time, and it was quite discouraging. Therefore, it has been important to ensure the basic prerequisites for using new and more modern eHealth solutions, such as investing in the basic infrastructure, such as putting in place a law that actually makes modern solutions legal, which was not legal before, and ensuring national governance through the establishment of an eHealth Directorate – three essential areas that made Norway hang behind in this development, and where we are now seeing a completely different development. With regard to the specific case in Health South-East, I have replied to questions relating to it earlier. The case in the NRK today deals with the transformation phase in which one is now involved, and there is the conflicting information provided by Health South-East, and in what appeared in the NRK case. I am therefore going to ask for a further detailed statement from Health South-East about the claims made in the case of the NRK. There is a clear pre-requisite in the case of the Health South-East Board that data relating to privacy and patient safety, the safety of patient information, should be ensured. The board of Health South-East is responsible for taking these kinds of decisions. The decision taken at my business meeting was related to a question of economic conditions around the contract and not the content of the contract itself or its implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e81	I hear the government is now warning them to look at the matter again, and it brings me to another dimension around the question of how we can be best in Europe. It's about having both political leaders and an office that has enough technological understanding to ask the right questions in time. And even if it is true that this is a contract work dedicated to the board in Health South-East, it is not good enough for the government only when it is questioned again by the media, to inform the Storting that it is now time to look at the matter again. What we need is increased technological and digital competence and understanding at a wide range of levels, including healthcare. I want to ask the question to the Minister of Health: how has he ensured that his political leadership and his top office, who take a position and get information on these matters on an ongoing basis, have enough technological competence to take care of the concerns we are looking for here?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e88	As far as political management is concerned, I'm not going to pass any judgment on our technological competence. I believe that any political leadership depends entirely on the fact that the specific professional competence in the various fields is primarily to be exercised by the civil service. As I said, we have made one fundamental change, and that is to set up our own eHealth Directorate to build up a national environment that has the highest competence in this area, both governance and management. At the same time, we have made reorganisations in the Ministry of Health directly and set up a separate department with a separate head of mission for this area, just to strengthen the Ministry of Health's own ability to control this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e95	It opens for follow-up questions – first to Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e100	First of all, I want to say that we never learn! So here we are talking about one of Europe's biggest ICT outsourcings. I asked the Minister of Health about this great exception, and after three weeks I finally got the answer – three weeks! He is very much for this exception – and other types of health care exceptions, he writes. And he refers several times to actions that need to be implemented before the business transfer of the ICT infrastructure in Health South-East takes place. Formulaions such as ‘actions must be implemented’, ‘further work’ and ‘additional measures’ tell of a work that has not been completed, a work that has simply not been done. It cannot be understood that safety measures and risk and vulnerability analyses have not been carried out. My question to the Minister of Health is simply: why has he not assured himself that all safety assessments have been carried out and approved before this major business transfer?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e108	Firstly, it is the Board of Health South-East that is responsible for carrying out such assessments. It is also those who are responsible for assessing whether this type of service is to be performed under their own control, by the Hospital Partner or by other private subcontractors. There is no political leadership towards Health South-East related to the choice of solution. They have their mission and need to use the resources of society at the disposal of health, in the best possible way, and where it is clear that priority is given to patient treatment, research and development and to provide a basis for good treatment further. Then it is that the answers – which have also been forwarded to the representative – to the questions asked are about the assurances given by Health South-East regarding the safety barriers to be built up and, where appropriate, the transfer of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e115	Olaug V. Bollestad - for the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e121	Journals and security have always been a problem, even when we had paper records that floated around between levels and departments. But it is a challenge for me to understand what has come up today, that foreign IT workers have gained more access than most of the IT consultants working in Health South-East. The IT consultants who have ethical guidelines to deal with are thus given less access than has been given in this tender. I wonder what the Council of State thinks about ethical basis when a will source ICT. What is the basis for ethical guidelines? We're different than nations. We treat IT information differently. When we don't have that basis, we're at risk for information to be diverted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e127	With regard to the specific information that appeared in the NRK case today, I have to ask to come back again and, if necessary, answer after I have received a detailed explanation from Health South-East about the situation that this case concerns, which is the very transformation phase in which we are now in – whether it is Health South-East statements today that are correct, or whether it is what the NRK claims that they can document. With regard to the permanent situation, Health South-East has assured me that those working in this company should not have the same type of access as those working in the Hospital Partner and working in the same conditions today have, that security and security assessments are to be carried out prior to the transfer, and that a number of security barriers should also be built if and when different services are to be provided from abroad, inter alia. encryption. There are conditions to build up precisely the type of barriers, and Norwegian law is to apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e134	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e139	This matter is much more serious than what has appeared so far in this debate. Foreign IT workers have access to patient information in Norway. Saka is nothing but a big scandal, and it's rocking the confidence of the entire Norwegian health system. I believe that the Council of State must cease to be in debt to Health South-East. He has to be responsible. The Council of State stood here in Stortingen one year ago and said that this project is not about the patient system or other systems where personal information is being processed. He said in Stortinget that there was an absolute requirement in the agreement that information security and privacy were maintained. I mean, the state council here has wanted the Storting, and that the state council can answer in this way what's happened now, I can't understand. I want to ask the Council of State in this matter, which is very serious, to come back to Stortinget with a complete explanation of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e146	I cannot draw the kind of bastant conclusions that the representative makes, in the light of the case in the NRC today. I need an in-depth statement, also from Health South-East, as it is quite contradictory information that is being provided today from Health South-East, and what appears in the NRK. Health South-East claims, among other things: that the access granted is a temporary access for a limited period for twelve HPE employees for training, that this access was granted via the supplier portal and is limited to a defined period, that this access was closed on 27 April, when the training was completed, and that there are also 16 HPE persons who have had temporary access to the monitoring infrastructure. This access was only used at the Hospital Partner’s premises under the control of the Hospital Partner. This access is also closed. This is the preliminary statement I have received from Health South-East, but I need a more detailed explanation, because the NRK claims that they have evidence of something that goes beyond this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e153	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e159	The ambition to be the best in e-health in 2025 is good, but right now we need to be the best in Europe in terms of digital vulnerability and security. It's about both privacy and data security, but it's also about object protection. The basic question that the Council of State has to ask Health South-East is whether it is possible to operate databases in Norway from abroad without anyone coming into contact with personal data — which experts strongly doubt. We have to get that information. The more principle of this is – we will review the Safety Act during the spring – whether health data should be subject to object protection. It is currently not possible to provide information technology workers outside the borders of Norway with safety clearance and it is not possible for Norway to exercise supervision. Then the Norwegian law is not all the world's much worth. The question to the Council of State is whether it will consider health data as part of the Safety Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e166	I fully agree with the representative that the first question he asks is a very central question in this matter and must also be fundamental to the work to be done in this area. As regards the issue of the Safety Act, it applies to Health South-East. Health South-East and Hospital Partners have carried out vulnerability and risk analyses that also affect conditions specifically related to the specific country, including conditions around local legislation. This concerns access to patient health information and infrastructure containing patient information, should be covered by the Safety Act. In that case, it would be a completely different discussion. In principle, health information for individual patients in Norway will not affect the State’s safety and will not therefore fall within the scope of the Safety Act as it stands today. But health south-east, as an enterprise, is covered by the Safety Act and makes these kinds of assessments, but then based on today's law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e175	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e180	It is a shocking matter that has come up, as we have been told today, about which the Minister of Health was informed a week ago, and which he still claims he does not have an overview of. We are not just talking about someone having had access from abroad – they have had access and have been able to extract information without it being possible to track it. And they've been able to give access to other people again, without being able to trace it. We almost have to assume that information about over one third of Norway's population has gone astray. Just to illustrate with a small example how serious this is: Let me take health information about abortion, which can come out, and what a threat it can be for women in a minority environment. Can one imagine other things — mental disorders, suicides, etc.? This has gone astray, out of the country. Norway is worst in Europe when it comes to security. And this is a relationship for which the Council of State has stood here in the Chamber and guaranteed security. How can the people of Norway have confidence in the Minister after this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e187	There are a number of claims in this article that have not been documented. I think it might also be a good idea for the representative to wait for a thorough statement on this matter. There are a number of the claims that are made here, which are not confirmed in the preliminary statement I have received from Health South-East, but which are conditions that we will go into. I also think the representative is wise to wait for an in-depth response, before he draws a great deal of conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e192	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e199	It is good that the Health Council stands here, because my question goes to him. On 1 May I got a great day in Odda. Many thousands were met to go under the slogan of maintaining the acute surgical offer at Odda Hospital, which has a impact field larger than the Westfold County. On the basis of a ROS analysis, Odda is of the highest severity in the case of major road accidents. There is a great risk of explosions and natural disasters with rock and snow, they have a lot of nature, and not least they live by a lot of tourism. Increasing extreme weather means that sometimes the air ambulance cannot land, it is impossible with both car and boat transport. Today Odda Hospital is able to handle approx. 80 pst. of the trauma patients and the acute surgery patients they receive. Then they transport 20 pst. to the trauma centre in Haukeland or to the hospital in Haugesund. My question to the Council of State is: what is behind the decision of the Council of State to shut down the emergency surgery in Odda, with the trauma function they have, to sort what they can take for themselves, and what they must and will carry on, while he intervenes and wants to keep this in Flekkefjord? What is the difference between the reasons in Flekkefjord and Odda, when the Council of State intervenes anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e210	We have now been in a situation where there has been a year-long conflict of closures related to many of the smaller hospitals in Norway. It is one of the things that one wanted to get rid of through the Stortings treatment of the National Health and Hospital Plan, where one has defined different types of hospitals. But one of the main conclusions of the government, to which the majority of the population also joined, is that the answer in Norway is no longer larger and fewer hospitals, but that one should preserve and further develop the smaller hospitals as well. Odd hospitals are today the smallest hospital in the country, with a recording area of about 11,000 patients. It is a hospital that has experienced several times just having the funeral ghost hanging over it. Health West’s recommendation, following a thorough investigation and assessment, is that Odda Hospital should be continued as an emergency hospital, in line with the leadership of the National Health and Hospital Plan. A further plan for its implementation shall also be drawn up. I want to make sure, of course, that the further work is also in line with the leadership given in the Stortingen regarding the National Health and Hospital Plan. However, this means that the continuing concern about the continued existence of Odda Hospital as an emergency hospital is now gone, and that Odda Hospital is to be continued as an emergency hospital, is to be taken into account in the development plans that Health West is now to work with, and that apply until 2035. Odda hospitals will then receive a level offer with it as one found at other hospitals last year in Norway, such as in Lærdal and in Nordfjord – hospitals that just function very well and that provide a good security for the local population.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e219	The people of Odda are concerned that the hospital is being preserved, but they are also concerned about what is in the hospital. Until today they have treated 80 pst. of those who have entered acutely, in their own hospital. Now it looks like there's a majority in this room to keep the emergency surgical offer and trauma function in Odda, which means that one should be able to separate those who are going to the trauma center, and those who are going to Haugesund, and then one should be able to deal with what you have competence for locally. What does the Council of State think now when we know that there is a majority in this room to preserve Odda hospitals? Will the Council of State come to the same decision and tell the people of Odda that we are interpolitically behind Odda hospitals, or will he recommend his group to actually oppose the preservation of Odda hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e226	There is now no doubt that the hospital in Odda will exist as an emergency hospital. It shall be continued as an emergency hospital with emergency functions in internal medicine; it shall be radiological services, laboratory services and planned surgery; it shall be anaesthetic 24/7 in a 24-hour watch and shall be an outpatient facility. One must not pretend that the change in Health West has now taken place involves a closure or a path towards the closure of Odda Hospital. It's directly wrong, it's the opposite that happens. There has been no greater certainty that Odda Hospital will continue as an emergency hospital than with what has happened through these decisions. Of course, when it comes to the Storting's handling of the case, I will wait and see what the committee comes up with, but I'm going to base today's governance model, which means that it's the health company and the health company meeting that determines the content of the individual hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e233	There will be follow-up questions – first Hans Fredrik Gruvan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e238	Last week, the Minister of Health decided that the development plan for the Southern Hospital should be drawn up on the basis that today’s emergency functions at Flekkefjord Hospital continue. This is a very good news for Flekkefjord Hospital and Sørlanden. The Christian People's Party is concerned that there is now peace around Flekkefjord Hospital, and that there is no room for further interpretations. We therefore expect the investigations that Health South-East ordered about Flekkefjord, which were to be completed during the spring of 2018 after the decision in Health South-East was rejected, can now be scrapped. Can the Council of State confirm that the commissioned investigations are now being abandoned, so that there can be peace around Flekkefjord Hospital, and that in the future we can all be safe on the continuation of today's acute surgery and trauma functions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e245	There is no reason to worry about whether today's offer at Flekkefjord Hospital should be continued, and the work on the development plan towards 2035 by Health South-East should also be taken into account. My decision in the business meeting separated from the decisions of the board of Health South-East at one point, and that was just that point. The process carried out at Sørlanden Hospital Flekkefjord was, in my opinion, not in line with the quality requirements laid down in the National Health and Hospital Plan. I believe it would be very unfortunate for the hospital in Flekkefjord to have to live with this uncertainty for one year – it could have led to challenges related to the hospital that I believe were wrong. It was right for the population to get a clarification on the role of Flekkefjord Hospital now – and that is the role they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e250	Tove Karoline Knutsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e256	As the Stortinge dealt with the National Health and Hospital Plan, there were clear, but at the same time in principle, indications of how to maintain an emergency surgical response, so that the Stortinge should not sit down and control the hospitals in detail. Then parameters such as distance and geography were introduced, and asked that this be used as a basis for custom models that provide an emergency surgical response. In Gravdal Hospital, Lofoten, you've done just that. You've created a Gravdal model, which is a solution that stays within what the Storing has ordered, and as we see, there are many similarities between Odda and Gravdal. My question is: Hasn't the Minister of Health seen Gravdal and presented these kinds of solutions when you have had dialogue with Odda?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e261	In the context of the National Health and Hospital Plan, it is quite right, as the representative says, that the government initially, but also by the Stortinget, stressed that geography, distance, climate should be emphasised in the local processes related to defining the level of preparedness within the different definitions of hospitals — in this context, emergency hospitals. It's kind of downgrading the content here will be in line with what you find in Nordfjord and Lærdal. But then it's precisely based on relationships with distance and geography you consider whether you need services and preparedness beyond that. That process has been carried out in Health Fonna and in Health West, and they have reached the conclusion they have made in the case of Odda Hospital, in line with the fact that local processes have led to other models, in Narvik, in Lofoten – and other hospitals that can now feel secure that they will continue as an emergency hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e266	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e273	In NOU 2015: 17 «First and foremost. A comprehensive system for the management of acute diseases and non-hospital injuries’ is referred to several studies indicating that the risk of dying after trauma is greater in sparsely populated areas than in densely populated areas. In the national trauma plan, which has recently been revised, the professional recommendations are that if there is 45 minutes transport time to a trauma centre, the patient should be transported to the nearest local hospital with trauma function. When no Odda hospitals are about to lose their emergency surgery, they also lose trauma function. Then it's between two and three hours to another hospital. My question is how the Council of State can defend the fact that people in Hardanger should not have the guarantee that people in Norway otherwise have, with the professional advice to have a local hospital with trauma function in the vicinity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e280	First of all, what's important in that kind of plan is to have a very clear understanding of what skills are available in the different hospitals. We have several emergency hospitals in Norway that are not part of a trauma team, but it has to do with the local conditions, distances and competences of hospitals, as I have explained earlier. Nor is it the case that everyone in Norway lives almost 45 minutes from a trauma hospital. And that's not the way the representative here reads, that you can put it up on that. It is also very clear in the NOU that the representative pointed out that it is the overall emergency medical chain that is crucial for the safety of the population. It starts long before the hospital. What is important is that good, predictable plans are made for this. It will also be done inside Hardanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e287	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e292	Both the Left and the Party of the Minister opted for the introduction of a national health plan in 2013, with the aim that, after the establishment of the enterprise model in 2002, the Stortinget should take back the superior governance of the specialist services. The health plan is now a reality, and the uncertainty that has prevailed around many local hospitals after eight years of red-green plurality is usually removed – great! Then, unfortunately, there is one important exception to the rule, that is Odda, with the decision to close the emergency surgery. One thing is the security that acute surgery represents for the local population, which many people have pointed to, but perhaps just as important is the role of the function in making the hospital attractive to other medical groups. It has been claimed, with great concern, that the decision is thus seen to be the beginning of a gradual bottling and closure of the hospital and still insecure. Does the Minister understand this argument, and what is his answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e299	I have a great deal of understanding of the turmoil and commitment that is in Odda, related to the changes that have been adopted at Odda Hospital. What has been important to me, and which I also feel the representative agrees with, is that that concern is no longer about whether the hospital should be laid down, as it has done many times before. The hospital shall continue as an emergency hospital. There are often a number of claims about what that kind of change will lead to. Then it is important for me to stress that the model chosen here is not a desktop model, it is a model that is well tested in the Norwegian healthcare system, precisely in hospitals that have found that they have found peace and predictability around their further operation, which has also provided security for recruitment. There are a number of hospitals in Norway operating within it and corresponding models, which are just ending up and which also have good recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e306	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e311	The representative of Bollestad has been to Odda on 1 May. I think an SV is about as happy to see a KrF in May 1st train as a Krf becomes to see an SV in the church – so it was fun. It can be mentioned that even Odda Right joined the 1st May train this year, correctly with blue posters, but it was the same protest against the party's own Health Minister from the Right People as from the others on the 1st May train. The signals received in the last few days from the Workers' Party indicate that there is a majority in the Grand Duchy to prevent the closure of the acute surgery. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Health, since he instead explained how he thinks the system should work, namely that it is the company that decides – it is nevertheless the Minister of Health who has approved Health West’s plans at the business meeting – I consider it a matter of course, but would like to have it confirmed that if a decision were to be taken in the Stortinget that points in a different direction, the Minister of Health will follow it up and make sure that it is put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e318	I am dealing with what is today's governance model, and we may be able to follow up if the majority of the population decides not to follow it in this case. Today's management model suggests that it is not the Stortinget that takes a decision on e.g.: the types of competence to be held in individual named hospitals. It will be a new practice, which, as far as I know, has never happened after the state assumed responsibility for the hospitals. It's something that each party has to think through the consequences of, if one violates that principle. It's always a good idea for a government council to follow up a decision on big business. It's always been like that, and it's always going to be like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e325	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e332	My question goes to councillor Höie. The government is pursuing a hospital policy with new interventions for emergency surgery that is not professionally anchored. In the national health and hospital plan, the ‘local hospital’ disappeared. The government thought this was not accurate enough. Thereafter, hospitals were to be defined as ‘regional hospitals’, ‘major emergency hospitals’, ‘acute hospitals’ or ‘hospital hospitals without emergency facilities’. The survey concluded that all emergency hospitals should be prepared for surgical evaluation and stabilisation and management of acute events. The question is what this means. In the national trauma plan, it has been established that in the event of injury and accident, long-distance patients are to be transported to local hospitals with trauma function. What a local hospital with trauma function must have of emergency preparedness is precisely defined in the national trauma plan. They must be prepared for surgeons, anesthesiologists and trauma operators. The term ‘surgical assessment and stabilisation’ is not defined, either in the morbidity plan or in the national trauma plan. It's a politically constructed word, with no professional realities. It is appropriate to conceal the debate, to give false security and to make people insecure – contrary to what was meant by the National Health and Hospital Plan. Of course, this cannot continue. State councils may be able to answer the Biggest question of what this means in practice. As one example, the Council of State has confirmed that Narvik hospitals should have emergency hospitals prepared for the surgical assessment and stabilisation and management of acute events, but it should not have surgeons for the 24-hour period. How is this professionally possible? I don't understand. We now have emergency hospitals that should not be able to accept acutely ill patients. My question is: How will the Council of State ensure the preparedness for surgical evaluation and stabilisation without the need for hospitals to have surgeons on guard?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e345	There are very few acute hospitals — perhaps just one — in Norway that can receive all emergency patients. The whole idea behind the National Health and Hospital Plan is that hospitals need to cooperate in networks, including emergency patients. It's nothing new. That's how it is today. Many emergency patients are being sent by the nearest hospital today, simply because the nearest hospital does not have the competence to handle that particular patient. The importance of this quality is that there are good plans and predictability for the types of competence and the role of the individual hospital in relation to various types of emergency incidents, and not least that the prehospital services have knowledge of it. The model underlying the definition of the national health and hospital plan as the minimum offer in an emergency hospital is from Nordfjord Hospital and Lærdal Hospital. The discussion of the contents of Nordfjord Hospital should not be unknown to a central party representative of the depository. We all remember the episode where the leader of the Central Party stood in North fjord and told the people that they didn't know what they were talking about. The model of the future local hospital that was developed and launched under the red-green government is the model that also forms the basis of the National Health and Hospital Plan, with which we now have many years of experience, including: from Nordfjord and Lærdal, but also from other different types of solutions in the case of a smaller emergency hospital. If a reason – as if the Centre Party is doing – is a much higher requirement to be allowed to be an emergency hospital, there will be very many of our smaller hospitals today that will not have the opportunity to be continued as an emergency hospital. This would lead to a centralisation of the hospital structure in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e355	Maybe there's someone else here who doesn't know what they're talking about. When it comes to trauma patients, it is not right that most people go past the local hospital. One can read in the National Trauma Plan that most are actually treated in a local hospital. I'd like to refer to a letter that the committee received from Torben Wisborg. He's a professor and leader of the National Traumatology Competence Service. It's dated March 28th. He writes: ‘In the closure of emergency preparedness in Norwegian hospitals, the distance and time to life-saving treatment will necessarily increase. [[...]] And on the other hand, ‘When introducing new concepts as assessment and stabilisation teams, it is important that they contain something that is actually useful for patients. An assessment and stabilisation team that is less competent and less competent than today’s emergency hospital is to trick patients and the population.’ [[...]] I would like to ask again: how should a certain surgical readiness for evaluation and stabilisation be ensured without the presence of surgeons on guard?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e374	Among other things, one can do it the same way that one does in North fjord and in Lærdal, where those who work there give an entirely different view, that this works very well. The management at Nordfjord Hospital says they haven't experienced the kind of episodes that many say will occur in the past twelve years. There is therefore a long experience with this model. At the hospitals in Nordfjord and Lärdal, a medical emergency team is established to take advantage of the overall competence of hospitals. This team is made up of spinal surgeons, internal doctors, anesthesiologists and general surgeons or orthopedians and may evict if there is a need to assess a patient also outside the hospital. At Lärdal Hospital there is an orthopaedic watch system associated with the planned surgery, and in Nordfjord it is linked to the outpatient clinic. Anaesthetics can implement stabilising measures and possibly also accompany transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e381	There will be follow-up questions – first Janne Sjelmo Nordås.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e387	Narvik can now become a hospital that does not accept acutely ill patients who need surgery. Taking care of acutely ill people is probably some of what most people relate to just having a hospital. How should Narvik be ensured for acute event assessment and stabilisation when the acute surgery is shut down and the surgeons are removed from the emergency department?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e392	In Narvik, I find that there has been a good cooperation between the hospital, the municipality, the University Hospital North Norway and later Health Nord to find a good model for the further development of Narvik Hospital. It is that there will be a gastro-surgical offer in addition to the usual opening time and beyond afternoon and evening. That means it will be possible to handle gastro-surgical patients, 90 pst. by the acute patients, within that time. There will also be an expansion of the orthopaedic offer, which has been important for the Narvik population, among others. to prevent older people with femoral fractures, for example, from being driven on the long road to Harstad in order to receive treatment. I feel that the model that you have come up with in Narvik is a good model, which is also within the requirements of the National Health and Hospital Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e399	Tove Karoline Knutsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e405	Moving from an existence as an opposition politician to a positionist can be a test for any politician, but the spouse of the shock that the Minister of Health has caused himself must be looked for a long time. Not only was he strongly opposed to any sensible use of ICT in the health sector when he was in opposition – which he admitted here in Stortinget, unlike what he said at the outset today – but he also said that national health and hospital plans should be a complete and exhaustive management tool, and even regional health companies or other schemes were not needed. All the doors would open, and was it against presumptuously someone who was dissatisfied, they could go to the Storting and ask to get the matter resolved. Today, Stortinget has tried to get the Minister of Health to solve the unresolved problems with some hospitals. We mentioned Odda. The size has dealt with the national health and hospital plan and has provided good leadership. Was not the plan as exhaustive and complete as the Minister of Health thought it would be?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e412	It may be a shocking experience to go from opposition to position, but when I look at the Workers' Party in opposition, I think it might be an even greater shocking experience to go from position to opposition. Especially does it have to be shocking to the memory sometimes. I think it is quite obvious how the National Health and Hospital Plan has worked in line with the way the parties also went in to ensure greater political governance. It was all parties outside the Workers' Party. We see that the very uncertainty that has been around a number of the smaller hospitals is now resolved. Some of them have been through processes. Most local processes have been good. There have been some exceptions linked to this, including: in Flekkefjord, and there have also been consequences. That decision is now the basis for the 2035 development plan. That means that the hospital map for Norway is drawn for the future, and I think that will bring peace and predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e419	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e424	I don't think anyone in this room disagrees that all hospitals can't do everything. We have to have some national functions, and we have to have some regional functions. Still, there's something I don't understand in this sequence. We say we should have an assessment and stabilisation competence in surgical patients, and we have specialists in Norwegian hospitals called surgeons, precisely because it's their specialty. How, then, can one explain that one must be prepared for assessment and stabilisation skills to be done by non-surgeons? I have also received signals from Narvik that, although there are surgeons at work, they are not allowed to take measures that they have the competence to do, after noon. 15th That's when the patient is to be transported. That's what the hospital is left with for duty. Then I ask, what does the Council of State think about this use of words about evaluation and stabilisation without a surgeon?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e431	Firstly, the term ‘surgeon’ is a simplification of what is today’s reality and the reality of the future. There is considerable specialisation in surgery. That means that any surgeon cannot do any surgical intervention or evaluation. Therefore, it is incredibly important that each hospital also has a very specific assessment of the type of emergency patients going to the hospital and the assessments to be made by the individual hospital. As far as Narvik is concerned, it is clear that there should be a gastro-surgical offer in addition to normal working hours, in the afternoon and evening, which would mean that the gastro-surgeons who are at work then could also be used in the assessment and treatment of emergency patients when appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e439	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e446	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. In a modern and complex society, it is essential that we be able to maintain a situation similar to that of the law and that we have common rights and obligations. Yesterday, in the morning of the NRK, we could hear that nightlife discrimination is widespread in Oslo, and that the municipality of Oslo has again revealed that there is discrimination in several of the city's outdoors. Typically, people with a minority background are denied access to outpatients, whether they are on the grounds that they operate with guest lists or that they are full. Discrimination, according to the control authority, is mainly based on skin color, although there may also be other examples of discrimination. According to the director of the Business Administration in Oslo, there is a great darkness. Over many years, reports from minority youth have come to light that there is discrimination on the ground, and that you are well aware of where you have limitations and it is difficult to get in. Discrimination in the open air shall not occur. It is illegal, and it is a serious discrimination that must be severely combated. In the past, the municipalities themselves were able to determine the severity of the reactions to various infringements, and it was therefore possible, as for Oslo Municipality, among other things, at former business bureau Hallstein Bjercke, to put in severe reactions in order to overcome this discrimination. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State have any initiatives, or what does the Council of State think can and must do in order to finally overcome the discrimination in the outdoor sector that we know is taking place?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e461	It is important that we have a strong and clear law that shows a ban on discrimination. We know that many people are being discriminated against, and the outdoor industry is one of the worst in terms of discrimination. The law is very clear that there is a ban on discrimination, and it has also been tightened up by the new anti-discrimination laws adopted by the Stortinget in 2013. The government has also sent to the Stortinget proposals for new equality and discrimination laws to strengthen the protection of discrimination in many areas, in particular discrimination on several grounds. It is not always useful with a good law if we do not also enforce the law, and today the law is such that discrimination does not have any consequences. And for the first time, the government has sent to treatment in Stortinget a proposal to change the whole enforcement system in the field of discrimination, where for the first time it will have consequences to discriminate, and a new, strengthened gender equality class can give up in the face of discrimination. For me, it is important that we have a law, it is important that it is enforced, and of course, it is also important when there is a law ban, that this is enforced. There are probably several cases that could have been taken to the courts to be tried.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e473	I thank you for the answer, but my follow-up question goes to the Minister of Health and Care. More than two years ago, a broad majority in the United Kingdom adopted a new system of controls for municipalities with the nightlife industry. We now have a national dot load system. The regulation laying down the peak loads applied to various infringements provides for a two-point discrimination. The withdrawal of the grant may only take place if a service provider has applied 12 dots during a two-year period. This means that the check-up must reveal six cases of discrimination before the grant can be suspended for one week. As I pointed out earlier, it is paradoxical that because of this legislation, a municipality that Oslo has had to soften its efforts to combat discrimination in the world as a result of the introduction of national legislation. Now this has been a period. My question is: is the Council of State willing to look at this again, so that municipalities have more room for action to intensify their work, to finally end a totally unacceptable situation with discrimination in the outdoor sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e484	Firstly, as the representative says, it was part of our larger municipalities that had already introduced different types of dot load. It was a system that worked well, but what we saw at the time was that there were very different practices in the municipalities when dealing with the alcohol law. Therefore, it was a broad desire, even from the industry itself, to have a national system that gave more equal treatment in municipalities, based on the dot load system. When a national scheme is introduced in which some municipalities already have a system, it will necessarily be necessary for some municipalities to adjust their original system, even if the dot loads that were introduced were also based on the experience of each municipality. With regard to the issue of discrimination, it is right that it has been inserted as a two-dot point. Nevertheless, there is a very big question of principle, because the purpose of the alcohol law is related to regulating the donation, while often it is politically tempting to use the sanctions in the alcohol law to take care of other social interests. There should be a limited one.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e491	There will be follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e496	On the basis of what the Minister of Health concluded, I would like to follow up with the Council of State Horne. It's obvious that we have a police force in Norway to fight crime. It may be tempting to use it for something else, as the Minister of Health got in. We have rules for the outdoor sector, we have rules for our working life, we have rules for the functioning of our housing market, and all of these are matters where people experience discrimination. But on the other hand, we see that the government and others are very active in combating extremism, combating exclusion, talking nice about it in all the arenas you have the opportunity to do it, and making action plans to do it. But one is still afraid to use it that in the everyday life of many young people is really perceived as extremely unfair. Does the Council see a certain conflict between what the Minister for Health concluded his answer and the job she has?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e505	For me, it is important that we have a good law that prevents discrimination, and that all groups, young and old alike, have a protection under the Discrimination Act, and I would say that the government has strengthened with the new common law on equality and discrimination. So it's not just having a law, it's got to follow up, and today it's not going to have any consequences if you're being discriminated against. We have a long period of procedure, and I want us to have an equality officer who is to be both a supervisor and a driver, who can be a watchman out there, and to take care of both children and young people who are being discriminated against. In the area for which I am responsible, it is important that people have information about their rights, that we have a good and clear law, that those who are discriminated against are taken care of, and that they get a quick clarification in or treatment of their cases. I believe that this will be strengthened by a new gender equality title, and it will also take care of the group that the representative addresses here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e514	Hege Haukeland Liadal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e521	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, who is responsible for discrimination. Youth with a migrant background drops off to the suburbs on the west edge, with certainty that they don't come in. This applies to Oslo. What has the Minister done specifically to see whether this is also a national challenge and a national problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e529	We know today that many people are subject to double discrimination. They are discriminated against because of their background and ethnicity, and they may also be discriminated against in the case of disability. If you have both, you're extra exposed to discrimination. That is why the government of the new common law on equality and discrimination has made it clear what is going on, and strengthened it. Then there must also be consequences for discrimination. This is an important task that I also believe the Equality Ombudsman must have. The gender equality ombudsman shall have both a strengthened driving role and a guidance and supervisory task, and this must be clear also in relation to the challenges in the outreach sector. We haven't done any national survey on it, but there's probably statistics that the Equality Ombudsman has.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e536	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e541	My question goes to the Minister of Health. I think it might be a bit of an overall debate when it is said that discrimination issues in the spirit industries are not suitable for the alcohol law, we need to have other legal bases to deal with. I think it's completely wrong. If one really sets out as a requirement – because it is a right to be granted – that there should be no discrimination here, then the sanctioning system is also best served by the same legislation as the authorisation is granted. So it's a fact that after the amendment to the law, it's more difficult to get involved in the industry that discriminates on the basis of skin color. So my question is, when it's going to be evaluated, will the Council of State look at whether the change that was made should change again, so that you can react to the kind of behavior that we've seen examples of?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e548	That's how we can react. Therefore, this ratio is also punctuated by the alcohol law. What's worth thinking about, however, is that discrimination is not just in the outdoor sector, but we politicians have an instrument that we have to deal with very few other industries, that we can take away from them the very basis of life, which is giving. The basis for this, I believe, should be essentially linked to the purpose of the alcohol law, namely to prevent overdrinking and improper sale and donation of alcohol. There must be the most severe reactions. If we choose to include many other social conditions in the alcohol law, then we have one industry that we have an extremely strong tool to do, which we can use for a lot, while to all the other industries in society, we do not have the same reactions, simply because they do not have the alcohol law. It's something that also a business-friendly party that the Christian People's Party should think through.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e555	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e560	My question goes to the Minister for Children. Child protection is about security, and it's about creating security for the most vulnerable children we have. One of the things that has created insecurity for child-rescue children, and which many have been involved in doing something about, is the tendering system, a tendering system that risks bringing children up from an environment they are familiar with and safe from, for example. the institution in which they are resident loses in a tendering procedure. Care is care – it is not a store. There was an important reason why the red-green government decided to stop the use of the tender in the national child protection system. One of the first state councillors Horne did was to repeal that decision and reintroduce the notice of the use of tenders. She wants to welcome commercial actors in child protection and does not want to give priority to non-profit-making or long-term agreements. We've seen a huge increase in purchases from commercial child protection companies in recent years, and we know that nearly 90 pst. by commercial child protection services are now provided by five large groups. So child protection is a lucrative industry for some large groups. So the Council of State has ordered a report from Vista Analysis, which came in 2016, and it has the striking name «The use of private actors in child protection – responsibility on the move?». I want to quote: ‘The day’s practice implies high profits for suppliers, more extensive services than necessary and increased costs for the municipalities and Bufetat for follow-up and control, etc.’. How much of the money the council grants to state child protection ends up profiting from commercial owners?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e579	Let me first begin by saying that to me it is not so important who operates the offer, but the quality that is given to the individual child, and that children and young people who need the help of child protection get the help they need, and an offer that is adapted to the individual. We have many skilled commercial players who provide services to the public. They provide good services, and they have done so for many years, even under the previous government. I do not see it as a problem that commercial earns money in providing services that the public needs, but it is important that we are sure that it is paid no more than what is necessary and that they deliver the quality that we order. Services provided by private operators shall satisfy exactly the same quality and requirement of competence and quality as the services provided by the State. I would like to stress that the contracts under which this government has operated were concluded under the previous government. We signed new contracts last year with private and non-profit actors on the same line as the previous government did. In recent years – also under the previous government – there are about. half State institutions and half private and non-profit actors. That's the same thing as today. I have no idea what dividends are being made, but I'm concerned that children have good offers when they need it at all times, and whether it's a government, a non-profit or a commercial actor, it hasn't been the main criterion. The most important thing is that it is quality that we have an offer that is adapted to the individual children and young people at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e590	Although the Council of State has received a report that states that the responsibility is on the wrong track and that there are unnecessary costs, she is not interested in finding out where the money is going. It's an interesting attitude of the Progress Party on the use of tax money. Now we've got an answer to that, so let me move to municipal child protection. So Councillor Horne has received a report from the Health Authority, which is dramatic. It notes that many child-restraint services resolve cases and that they are not able to respond properly to concerns messages. Money is not everything, the council has commented on that report, despite the fact that, when she was in opposition, she proposed a stepping-up plan for municipal child protection. When SV had government responsibilities in this area, we carried out an escalation, about 1000 posts were allocated through an ear-marked plan – the child protection promise – in those years. It was the biggest effort on municipal child protection in over 20 years of age. So under the councillor Horne, the child-restraint lift has stopped. A change of pay has been granted, despite the fact that the aim was to reach a total of 1,500 new jobs. How many new posts in municipal child protection has Horne provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e597	Let me add to the first question that we have ordered that report. It's a report that we're now going through, because it's also important to look at how state child protection is driven, especially against both state institutions and commercial institutions. So to the question. The government has increased the appropriations for municipal child protection by over 150 million. in recent years, and there has also been a strong commitment to some of the fundamental criticisms of child protection, namely the lack of competence. We see that the child-restraint pledge launched by the previous government, which we are now continuing to strengthen several other measures, is helping to reduce the length of proceedings by reducing the number of children in municipal child-responsors. It is also important to stress that municipalities have increased funds and that they have a statutory obligation to have sound child protection and to bet on child protection. Like the representative, I am concerned that there are too many differences in the municipalities related to betting on child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e604	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e610	Governments are talking about the competence package, but we're talking about people who don't have time to eat the food package. The problems have once again accumulated in the protection of children after today’s government stopped the Child Protection Lift rather than completing it. At Councillor Horne's post, it has been generously given to the country's economic elite, while child protection is being eaten off with small amounts of money. And we now hear that there is no control over whether money spent on child protection goes to vulnerable young people or to child protection barons – through the bidding process, which has been reintroduced into child protection, where we see that market forces are once again going raw. I wonder if the Council of State Horne is satisfied with the development, for which she herself is responsible, or whether she might hope for the government's SV again, so that there might be a new boost for the most vulnerable groups here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e618	Child protection is one of the most important areas in which we are working. The main work for the protection of children also takes place in a municipality, that the municipality has a good and safe child protection. The government has continued to invest in the municipal child protection system, as the previous government put it. We have put in place several jobs, which have also made there fewer children per case handler. I want to stress that the most important thing we can do for child protection is to prevent. We know that care takeover is expensive. For this reason, this government has focused on prevention: the municipalities that use more in health centres use less on child protection. It's to be able to get in early and help the families where they need it, and make your parents safe, so that you don't need a caretake. Then it is important as the reports that have come and as the Health Authority’s oversight shows that there is a lack of competence. There is also a lack of competence in the practice of the law. This is why the government also has a large-scale commitment to the competence of municipal child protection, which will benefit children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e627	Sonja Mangt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e632	Child-restraint needs safe adults in child-restraint who can work. Under the red-green government, we also tried to put child protection into the frame, which turned out not to work. Then came the Children's Protection Lift, and there we had a lot of ear-marked means. It is not being followed up. In the new law – which we are now dealing with – we see that several tasks will be transferred to the protection of children in municipalities, and the money will be included in the framework. I wonder what kind of new information the Council of State has that framework grants will increase the manning and competence of child protection in the future. I wonder if she can share it with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e639	In these years, the government has passed on the designation of the municipal child protection that the previous government started. It has also been important for us to ensure that municipalities pay more employees in the area of child protection. I would like to underline once that the municipalities have a separate responsibility for having child protection that is sound, that cooperates with other services, and that works prevention and with early efforts. It is also the aim of the reform of child protection presented by the government. The government wants to give municipalities greater responsibility for child protection, because we know that it is an incentive to work prevention, to see more services at one time and to get in early. I also want to stress – and it is very clear in the child protection reform presented to the Stortinget – that municipalities should be given greater responsibility, and that they must also be given greater financial responsibility. That's the transfer of money. I have faith in local democracy, that when local authorities get money over the frame, that money will go to the important work on child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e652	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e658	In the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, we are now dealing with a proposition: changes in the Law on the Protection of Children, a reform of child protection. Proposition provides a good summary of the challenges in Norwegian child protection: lack of foster homes, numerous foster home placements are broken, and many children are in foster home queues. In addition, there are large municipal differences and a lack of differentiated measures for the children who need it. The question is whether this proposition responds to the challenges of child protection today. How will the Council of State ensure that there will be fewer violations and that we will have more foster homes and more support for foster homes in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e665	The government has provided a foster home message that was dealt with in the Stortingen one year ago, where there were many good measures, and where there were also request decisions from the Stortingen that we are going to follow up, and that is a job we are working on. We know we need more foster homes. It's hard to recruit, and that's why I'm glad that the Christian People's Party has also been involved in increasing the budgets for the recruitment work up against foster homes. In addition, it is within the framework of the child protection reform that municipalities are given a statutory obligation to search for foster homes in networks and relatives, which we know are also good foster homes. Then I want to mention that we have just put down a sample that is now going to go through the entire foster home care and also look at the arrangements up against the families, because we know that there are many foster families who are taking on an important job, who are not getting the follow-up and guidance they need to have in order to be in the important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e674	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e679	Child protection needs stability. Stavanger Aftenblad told in January 2016 the story of the teenage girl ‘Ida’ who was forced to move to a child protection institution 130 miles north of his hometown. In 2015, a total of 478 children in Norway were moved to a child protection institution or a state foster home in a country other than that from which they come. The Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate told Stavanger Aftenblad on 20 December last that the Ministry of Children’s and Gender Equality has announced that high productivity and capacity utilisation of child protection institutions are more important than placing children in the vicinity of the home. My question is why the council does not intervene here and is working to give children a legal right to supply in the vicinity of the child's home when it is at the best of the child?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e688	It is important to ensure at all times that children and young people in need of an institution place are given the place that is best for this child. Then we must also be aware that it is approx. 1000 children living in institutions, and it will be impossible to have a specialised offer for each child in each region and each municipality. But it is important that both the municipalities and the state listen to the child and the youth – who was the failure of the Ida case – to find the offer that is there. I have been concerned that we should have an institutional offer that is a diversity and that, in the new child protection reform, municipalities now have a greater freedom of choice to choose the right institution. They don't have the opportunity to do that today; they often have to take the institution that's free. But we are committed to diversity and good quality in these institutions, and also to ensuring that children are involved in the choice of the institutions they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e697	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e703	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy: When large expansion projects have been launched into Asian shipyards, we have heard that this is due to the fact that Norwegian shipyards were not competitive. Nevertheless, we have repeatedly seen that the projects come to the Norwegian cap with a price tag that is far above the tender price. Economic overruns, faults that need to be repaired and significant delays in start-up production lead to extra costs. Through our tax system, a very large part of this is deducted from the taxes of oil companies. It is therefore important that we look at how this can be prevented. Norwegian shipyards have marked themselves as reliable suppliers at both price and quality. High standard of work and high level of safety ensure this. But it has also been reflected in the tender prices provided by these offices. The construction of Totals Martin Linge platform was awarded the Samsung yard in Korea in 2012. Last week it became clear that the project was in trouble. Both cost exceedances and delays were notified – 10.4 billion. kr over the budget and more than one year delay. On 1 May the sad message also came that 6 people were killed and over 20 were injured in an accident at work on this project. In the Workers' Party, we have seen the need to allow the authorities to do something to prevent such project failures. It is the responsibility of the companies to choose suppliers, but when the risk share of the community is as large as it is, the authorities should have a finger on the steering wheel. We have therefore put forward proposals to investigate how, through closer follow-up to development projects, governments can ensure that contract strategies and project implementation contribute to the achievement of our overall objectives in the field of petroleum policy. We have also noticed that the HMS standard in e.g. Korea is very different from Norway. While we had a death rate in employment in 2013 of 1.8 per hundred thousand years, Korea had 12.5. We therefore made proposals to determine whether the regulation on HMS in the petroleum industry could also be fully or partially applied in the construction of installations for Norwegian base. In view of the development of the Martin Linge project, with regard both to exceedances, delays and the tragic accident, what are the thoughts of the Council of State on what can be done to avoid this kind of undesirable development in the construction of projects into Norwegian Socket?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e714	Firstly, I will also express that it was a terrible message to get that we have had a major accident at the Samsung yard with tragic outcomes for workers there, and there is reason to let our thoughts go to those who are now left without their loved ones. It is true that we have had a period back from 2010, under the previous government, where very many major projects related to the Norwegian oil and gas industry went to the yard in Asia. This trend has seen a significant change in recent years, and an increasing share of the project goes to Norwegian shipyards, the Norwegian supplier industry. I see this as an expression that oil and gas companies both see the whole of their acquisitions and also include delays and possible excess costs in their overall risk assessments when awarding contracts. A good deal of work has also been done in the Norwegian supplier industry together with the oil companies in the last two years, following the oil price drop, which contributes to a more competitive Norwegian supplier industry than before. There have been cost reductions, standardisation and contractual arrangements between the parties have been addressed. This has helped us this winter, for example. have seen that the Norwegian share of new contracts awarded has been very large. This is good news for the Norwegian supplier industry. Then I would like to stress that in the case of projects that are outsourced to other countries, it is the authorities in the respective countries that are responsible for the regulation and follow-up of the HMS work, as in Norway, that the Norwegian authorities are responsible for the follow-up of the labour law and the HMS work of Norwegian suppliers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e725	I thank you for your answer. It is true that a good deal of work has been done in the industry, and I hope that the oil companies have taken over the results we have seen, with exceedances and delays on previous projects that have gone to foreign yards. I don't think we're out of danger. Therefore, I would very much like to see us put in place a proper code and an opportunity to go closer to the oil companies in terms of the project follow-up. Just as we do in terms of extraction and as far down as the drainage of the individual fields on the Norwegian base, we need to be able to be sure that the companies have control over the development projects. That's why we've said we want to find out. The same applies to HMS. We can, through development and operational plans, impose conditions that there will be a good follow-up of HMS during the construction period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e736	It is quite right that the authorities have followed up the oil and gas activities on Norwegian soil through the legislation we have managed over 50 years, which has been gradually developed. With regard to the division of labour here, it is important to keep it clear and clear: it is the companies that are responsible for their acquisitions and as builders they must be it to the suppliers they choose, whether foreign or Norwegian. On the part of the authorities, we are clear that the companies have to carry out an activity that is in line with the HMS requirements we are making – which are among the most stringent in the world – for the activity on Norwegian pedestal. Petroleum supervision has a role in the deployment phase related to following up projects and ensuring that they are built in a way that allows them to be approved for activities on a Norwegian base when they come into service and are to be put into service. For this reason, the Petroleum Control Authority has followed up, for example: the development of Martin Linge, to which reference was made in the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e745	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e751	I don't really understand that the Council of States is answering the question here. He comes up with some general considerations and general ideas about the development of the industry, but will not answer anything that is the serious issue that was raised. We see that the exceedances have increased, the delays have been longer and the accidents – last but not least now on 1 May – are more serious. I believe it has now reached a critical level and that this cannot continue. I hope the Council of State can answer if you don't see this, that development has now gone too far, that there is a need to take action, and that there is a need for such a basis as the Workers' Party has asked. It would be interesting to hear the views of the Council of State on whether or not he sees any scenario at all. Does it continue with major accidents and longer delays? Should one continue with the same inactivity? Or will one in any scenario imagine that it might be possible to take some grip and put such a warrant in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e758	I would like to stress that most of the development projects on the Norwegian base are carried out on a level, time and diet, and are good projects that are very socially useful and provide revenue to the public. The development of large oil and gas projects is complicated. These projects are one of the most complicated things you can imagine – pure engineering! Sometimes challenges arise. The Workers' Party is concerned here with a whole new model which will, if necessary, contribute to the involvement of the authorities and decide on the strategy to be adopted by the different companies for their development projects. There's going to be a mix of roles that I don't think we're serving in the Norwegian oil and gas resource management. It is such that he has to share responsibility between the companies as builders and the authorities that can impose general requirements on the oil and gas activities on the Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e767	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're moving on to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e781	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e786	The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Gunvor Eldegard to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Health and Welfare, who is directly responsible. Question 6, from the representative of Mr Kjerkol to the Minister for Health and Welfare, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e799	‘’It cannot be on the money. It costs what it costs," said Siv Jensen in 2013. Given the government's policy over the last four years, there is reason to argue that the elderly have had to give way to tax cuts for those who have the most of them. State-funded care for the elderly is attempted in six municipalities, the legal right to hospitalisation met massive countermeasures from trade unions, the KS warned against changing the investment grant. There are many examples. Is the Council of State and the party leader satisfied with the answers she now gives to the elderly of the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e806	Since this government took over in 2013, we have provided better services and higher income for the elderly. The government has reduced taxes by 21 billion. kr, which has also benefited the elderly. Persons with a main pension income have received an average relief of NOK 3000. Pensioners at all levels of income on average have been relieved. Many pensioners also have high net wealth and benefit from the relief of property taxes. At the same time, a specific tax deduction ensures that pensioners at the minimum pension level do not pay taxes on pension income at all. We believe that pensioners should retain more of their own pension. Pensioners have built Norway through hard work for many years. Therefore, the government has also reduced the unreasonable curtailment of the pension to married and cohabiting pensioners. This means that on average, pensioners have got $8,000 more to walk with this year. Overall, the government’s policy provides a significant boost to pensioners’ income. Then the representative takes Gahr Støre wrong when he says that the care of the elderly has been given way to the government's tax relief. Under this government, the large amount of money has been used to strengthen well-being, including for the elderly. There were major deficiencies in the care of the elderly after eight red-green years. We're on the right track to fix that. I would like to remind the representative Gahr Støre of the Workers' Party's own concessions after eight years with the Health Minister of the Workers' Party. This period was started with a recognition from the Workers' Party that they had failed to provide care for the elderly. In the last four years, however, the Workers' Party has been working against the government's proposals to ensure the capacity and quality of care for the elderly. Parents do not have time for the Workers' Party's passive attitude in the care of the elderly. With the Advance Party and the Right in government, we now see a change of pace in the care of the elderly. The appropriations for care services have increased by 1.5 billion. kr. The state assumes greater responsibility for the development of hospitals. The state takes half the bill. This has led the municipalities to expand more. We have arranged for the renewal and construction of over 9 000 care facilities. We have provided grants for more than 3,000 new day-care sites for people with dementia, which allow more elderly people to experience lifelong lifelong learning and lifelong satisfaction in their everyday lives, while at the same time postponing the need for a sick home. We're legislating the right to hospitalization. We have reduced the proportion of people who involuntarily live in double rooms. We have launched a pilot project on state funding for the care of the elderly. Municipalities report high learning outcomes by participating in the experiment. They feel that health and care services, administration and politicians work together more and better than before. It could help to improve quality. Now the government is starting work on an older reform – live your whole life. We have to dry to think again also in the care of the elderly. We can't erase the differences from a desk in Oslo. That's why we're going out to talk to those who have the shoes on. It's in the municipalities the differences arise, but it's also where the good solutions exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e846	I quite agree that it is in the municipalities the knowledge is and the shoe prints. It has therefore been interesting that the Congress of the Progressive Party has been that the State should take over the financing of the care of the elderly. The attempt was not particularly interested in the municipalities – many withdrew from it, and it has been standing as a rather wasted lift, if you can say so, for the care of the elderly in the municipalities. The government started a year ago with the so-called state funding of the elderly in six municipalities. A large number had before subtracting from the experiment, among others. because you thought you'd lose money on participating. So a question in the follow-up on care for the elderly is: How have the remaining municipalities been followed up by the government during this year? Can the Council of State explain the status of the pilot project so far? And is this a project she can imagine going on with and possibly expanding after the reception it has received in Kommune-Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e855	I actually responded to this in my previous answer, namely that the experience gained by the municipalities involved in the pilot project so far is very positive – better cooperation, which provides a basis for better quality of care in the municipalities that are part of this. So now the experiment isn't over, but I mean, as I said, we have to dry up thinking new. We are going to face formidable challenges in the care of the elderly because many more are getting older in the years to come. Then we have to be not only concerned with the number of places, but also with the quality of it. That is why we are also helping to improve the quality of care provided. What we see The Workers' Party is doing, which is much more alarming, is actively entering into municipal policy to re-municipalize the nursing home. It reduces diversity. It reduces the freedom of choice. And the term ‘welfare profitors’ has begun to be used for private health and care providers, which contribute to greater diversity and quality of care services. I believe that the Workers' Party is taking a major step in the negative direction of improving the quality of care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e862	In 2015, the Labour Party presented from the opposition a rather thoughtful approach to better quality in care for the elderly, how we can measure our efforts against our elderly on quality and get away from the fact that it only runs on money volume. It is quite consistent with what this government is now saying it will do – and now it is going to listen to the municipalities. I think it is striking that after four years in the government offices and with a few weeks left by the session the government should listen out and gain experience from the municipalities to see what can be done on quality. I want to ask the Council of State: when it comes to the construction of new hospitals, is the Council of State satisfied with the pace of it, what has really happened as a result of the government's financial arrangement? There are numbers that indicate that it hasn't exactly given rise. Does the Council of State mean, then, that you have made the arrangements you have chosen from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e871	First of all, it's not like the government has only now begun to listen to the municipalities. One of the first things we did, and it was the Minister of Health who took the initiative, was to engage in dialogue with the KS in order to identify the actual needs of the municipality of Norway. During the red-green government, it was not possible to get an overview of what was the actual needs when it came to nursing homes. The municipalities were not allowed to keep waiting lists. Now we have taken active action to make sure that we know where the needs are, and it is through that monitoring of the need that we can also plan for a much more extensive development. And in parallel with that being mapped out, we've strengthened our efforts, increased state funding and gained speed in the construction of new hospitals. So there's a shift in the construction of new hospitals in relation to the red-green government, and I think it's based on the recognition the Workers' Party had after eight years in the government offices, that they had failed the care of the elderly. This government doesn't. We have prepared the groundwork, and we are now setting up another reform to strengthen the quality of care for the elderly in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e883	This question, from Gunvor Eldegard to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Health and Welfare who is directing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e888	«The government has repeatedly voted against proposals that will improve the content of care for the elderly. We are particularly concerned about the offer of demented products. The majority has adopted an obligation to have day-to-day activities in all municipalities, but not enough money is granted. Those affected by the disease and their relatives will be injured if the offer is not severely escalated. Why has the Council of State chosen to ignore the actual figures, the needs of those affected and the consequences for them and their closest?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e895	We've taken a lot of steps to provide better services to the elderly in general and to people with dementia and their relatives in particular. We are fully committed to increasing the competence of municipal health and care services. We have significantly strengthened the investment grant for lucky day care facilities. We have created our own plan to improve the service provision for people with dementia – Demen Plan 2020. For the first time, such a plan has been developed in collaboration with people who have dementia and their relatives. Through Demenplan 2020, the government is targeting increased capacity, competence and quality in the supply of people with dementia, in line with the needs of users and relatives. The development of day-to-day activities for people with dementia is an important initiative in Demen Plan 2020. Activity offers can contribute to good and meaningful experiences for the individual and the relief of relatives, who are often in difficult situations. The government has announced that we will propose a change to the Health and Care Services Act to establish an obligation for municipalities to offer day-time activities to residents with dementia, applicable from 1 January 2020. In order to facilitate day-time activities in municipalities, a separate grant scheme has been established for all municipalities to apply for. It is estimated that there is a need for 9,200 seats, while by the end of 2016 there were 2,984 seats in service. In 2017, the government has arranged for about 750 more day-time activities for people with dementia in 2017. Unfortunately, the grant has been used to a lesser extent than foreseen. I believe that the municipalities now have strong financial incentives to expand an activity offer for people with dementia. Studies show that this can delay the use of more expensive services and relieve and prevent health damage to relatives, as well as improve the quality of life for users. It is also a good support system the state has, but unfortunately we still have challenges to get the municipalities to use the money allocated for this purpose, earmarked. I would now particularly encourage the municipalities to use the government grant that government has granted to build up the offer before the announced obligation enters into force in 2020. In this way, we will just create a better service for people with dementia and their relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e909	Thanks for the answer. We are certain that the Stortinget has agreed that municipalities should be obliged to establish day-to-day activities for people with dementia, and it should be in place by 2020. But then there will actually be a need for about 5,400 more home-building sites with dementia in the period from 2018 to 2020, and there is a good deal left to reach this goal. Nevertheless, the government chose to reduce the funds for the provision of day-to-day activities in 2017. In this year's budget, as the Council of State said, there are up to 750 more seats. It's too small, and the expansion will go too slow. At this rate – can the Council of State ensure demente and their dependants that the municipalities are able to fulfil their obligations by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e916	The background for the subsidy was that the money was not used. It is a challenge if we give priority to spending large amounts in the state budget on the care of the elderly who are not used by the municipalities. Then there is a poor disposal, and therefore it is more important to spend the money that is not used, on other bets, for example. enhancing competence in the field of service. But I use every opportunity to encourage the municipalities to apply for these funds. Unfortunately, we still see that there is too little activity in municipalities in expanding daily activities and using the good state support system that is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e923	This means that the Council of State may not believe that by 2020 everyone will have an offer in their municipality. Another area, cultural expression, song and dance, has been shown to have a very positive effect on people with dementia. Songs together contribute to joy and well-being, and it stimulates language skills and anchors good memory from previous years. The doctoral thesis of Tone Kvamme concludes that music therapy can have a major positive impact on dementia with symptoms of depression and anxiety. Doctor and specialist Audun Myskja has focused in her doctorate on the use of music in the care of the elderly. He has, among other things, engaged in an exciting project at Bergen Røde Kors Sykhomem, where music has been used in sitting situations. This shows very good experience with regard to how this appeals to patients and prevents anxiety and such things. Despite that, today's government suggested that we take away the cultural walking stick. Luckily, he's not being drawn away, but I want the Council of State to ensure that the cultural spaser stick is still an offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e930	I believe that a good solution has been found for the scheme related to the Cultural Spaserstick, but it is very important that the representative does not put similarities between Myskja's research on music therapy and the Cultural Spaserstick. The cultural walking stick is about making cultural offerings. It's important, and it's good for the quality of life. Music therapy is about using music integrated in the treatment and care of people with dementia in a professional way. For this reason, this government has chosen to strengthen its funding for music therapy as a continuing training for employees in the sector. In addition to the cultural experience, which is important for quality of life, to which the Cultural Spaserstick contributes, this is about using music in a professional way, for example. care of patients, and it requires something quite different. That is why this government has chosen to strengthen music therapy as an education to improve its supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e939	‘The decision to establish a gene bank in Hardangerfjorden came after a long draw on an own regulation on farming activity in the fjord and from the need to ensure the stock of wild salmon fish in Hardangerfjorden. In a short time, the genetic bank project has a large and broad commitment to preserving the remains of unique populations for future generations. What will the government do to ensure that the planned recovery bank comes into place and that the collection work can be carried out?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e946	Let me first say that I greatly appreciate the work done locally for the salmon fish stocks in Hardanger. The type of local involvement is very important in the management of the anadromous salmonids. As regards the envisaged re-banking of salmonid fish stocks from Hardanger, it was mentioned in the 2017 budget proposal. New cost estimates were made in 2016 to show that the return bank would cost 66 million. NOK, which is a cost increase of more than 50 pst. compared to previous estimates. Because the price had increased so much, the government decided not to build the bank. When the budget was examined by the Storting, no money was allocated for the purpose either. On 4 April this year, the Stortinget examined a proposal for a representative to take care of endangered populations of wild and marine trout in Hardanger. At the time of the examination, there was a proposal from a minority in the Energy and Environment Committee to ask the government to ensure the completion of the work of establishing a re-bank for salmonids from Hardanger. That proposal did not receive a majority vote in the Stortinget vote. In 2015 and 2016, material from the salmonid fish stocks from Hardanger was collected that could be relevant to a gene bank. The collected material will be kept at Ims in Rogaland until further notice. Salmon fish stocks in Hardanger will continue to be covered by the rest of the work being done to preserve the wild species in Norway. In this work, we are implementing strict regulations in the fishing industry. We also spend a lot of resources fighting the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris and liming in acidified watercourses. The main impacts on wild salmon populations today are salmonids and escaped farmed fish. Actions and instruments in this field are the responsibility of the Minister for Fisheries, and we have close dialogue on these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e962	What the Council of State says is well known from the debate, both at the time of the discussion of the State budget and at the time of the discussion of the draft representative. But it's still a big and good local commitment and a willingness to create a gene bank. What is currently precarious is that if there is no more funding for the project, one will not be able to collect anymore, but will have to complete the collection. Then there will be no way back. Can the Council of State confirm that the government has taken a complete and final decision on this matter, so that there is no hope of continuing the collection with a view to establishing a re-banking?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e967	So, as I've seen, the situation was that the huge increase in costs did not allow us to find room for the restitution in the budget. Since the budget agreement, where no funds were allocated to a gene bank, we have been pressurised to obtain a temporary solution with the storage of the collected material. It gives us a breathing room to consider the next step, but no conclusion is drawn in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e972	It was good to hear that one has made a temporary solution, but the point is that if one does not decide soon, it will be difficult to continue because one cannot continue the collection. Then the work will also be in vain. One might argue with an increase in costs, but there is a lot of money in this country. When we see what one can achieve with this project, there are probably few other measures that would have helped preserve the wild fish in Hardanger. What kind of other corresponding measures does the Council of State see going on if one is not going to continue to have a re-banking in Hardangerfjorden?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e977	I now focus on implementing the temporary solution that we have found for the material collected in 2015 and 2016. If no permanent re-banking is established, the material will have disappeared for later. But that does not mean that we do not have a number of other measures to manage the responsibility of Norway for the Atlantic wild species. The salmon fish population in Hardanger is covered by the rest of the work we are doing: strict regulations in fishing, which I have been involved in, the control of salmon parasites, liming and not least the new ‘traffic light system’ for the farming industry, which will reduce the impact on wild salmon populations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e985	‘The Working Party has promoted a proposal for a representative to set up a grant scheme for activity projects for people with memory failure and dementia. A good example of such a project, which shows how volunteering can contribute to activity and life happiness, is Hamkam's Memory Ball project. Soccer interest is used here as a starting point for association and mutilation. Will the Council of State support our proposal to launch more such projects?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e992	The government will strengthen the offer of people with dementia. We aim to make people with dementia experience living in an active community with others, and to facilitate more both physical and social activity adapted to the individual. I am pleased that the Labour Party shares this objective. In the work on Demenplan 2020, users and relatives told us that day care is important for having a good life with dementia. The Government will promote a legislative proposal that establishes an obligation for municipalities to offer a daily activity offer to residents with dementia, applicable from 1 January 2020. In 2012, a earmarked grant scheme was set up to stimulate municipalities to build up that kind of day-to-day activity offer. Projects of the type called for by the Workers' Party could be carried out under this grant scheme. These include: grants for projects that have tested different models and different content of the activity offer. Other schemes provide grants for the development and testing of environmental therapeutic methods, such as: use of song and music in the treatment offer. The grant has been used to a lesser extent than intended and desired. However, studies suggest that municipalities now have strong incentives to build up a daily service. In comparison with the notified obligation to offer such an offer, municipalities should have sufficient incentives to expand the daily activity offer to residents with dementia by 2020. Rather than establishing new grant schemes for the same purpose, the government wants municipalities to use the existing schemes. Through the ‘lifelong’ reform, we will also assess measures and instruments to ensure that municipalities learn more quickly from each other and make changes based on experiences of what works, including: to stimulate increased activity and content of life for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1005	Thanks for the answer. It is good that the objectives set by the Storting for dementia care are followed up, and that there is a system. There are some concerns related to it, including: that it covers only a minor part of the total costs of the municipalities for both establishment and operation. In addition, we see that construction of new sites is slow. It is also a challenge that today's system only targets home dwellers with dementia. We see that there is a need for easily accessible money that can stimulate actions and activities that we know work within, for example. both culture and physical activity — not only for residents but not least for people living in nursing homes and nursing homes. The question is whether the Council of State sees that such a scheme as we propose would have been important in the work of municipalities to fill new day centres and day services with content.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1012	One of the challenges in this area is to make the municipalities want to establish an offer that is clearly good for the users, for their relatives and also for the municipalities. We have different grant schemes. We have grant schemes for day-time activities for residents, and then we have projects aimed at nursing homes. Municipalities initially have good financial incentives, especially in the case of residents with dementia, in addition to state grant schemes, by actually establishing offers. So I also think there is a need simply to work more systematically with the municipalities in terms of seeing which offers actually give good effect, and learning from each other. That is exactly what must also be done through the reform of Life throughout life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1019	When we see that schemes are not fully used according to the objective, it is possible to ask more questions, including: whether the arrangements are successful enough and whether they meet the needs. I showed in my first question about the project that HamKam has set up together with the National Association for Public Health. HamKam himself says that they hope to be able to operate this as a lasting measure, but that the project funds they have received from the National Association have been triggering. We see that football clubs and other volunteers from all over the world can be important partners in dementia care. I believe that our proposal will be able to provide municipalities and counties with a good tool to stimulate and trigger that kind of voluntary effort. Does the Council of States see that facilitating cooperation with volunteers can be important in order to achieve the objectives we have set for dementia care?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1028	I am also very positive that both the National Association, the Extra Foundation and others offer money for good projects. It's a very good addition to the money allocated to the Health Directorate, which they manage, and which the municipalities can apply for. We also often see that there is money that makes projects other than what the government grant scheme does. This is often seen, in particular by voluntary and non-profit actors, as more accessible money, such as it is. Less evidence is required on the basis of which they can apply directly, while very much of the money allocated to the State budget has to go through the applicant municipality. I have also asked what the representative raises, which is a very good question: Is the grant scheme we have today difficult to use? It is a question I have often asked when I have been to the municipalities, and the answer I get from the municipalities that use the scheme is no, it is not. If we had got the impression that it was not available, of course, I would have been open to make changes to the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1039	‘As of 2017, the Government has proposed to change the criteria for current investment grants only to projects with net growth in the health care facilities of the lucky day. This has been adopted before the entry into force of the Government’s amendment to the legislation on the introduction of waiting lists, which will provide a better overview of the needs of the sector. How does the Council of State defend such a major conversion of the investment grant when the numerical basis is uncertain and the reluctance is so great both in the professional and local communities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1046	The Government proposed in the 2017 government budget a conversion of the investment grant from 2021 to only sites that provide net growth. This led Stortinget to the budgetary procedure before Christmas. In the last three years, the government has prioritised a higher rate and a higher framework for investment grants than previous governments have done, and in these years, there has been a high level of activity on the part of municipalities. Many inappropriate sites have been replaced and refurbished through the action plan for the care of the elderly and through the investment grant to the care centres of the lucky day. However, there has been a problem that we have not had enough knowledge of the needs in the future, of the plans of the municipalities and of the state of existing buildings. The government, in cooperation with the KS, has therefore initiated a series of investigations to gain new and up-to-date knowledge, and we now have a better knowledge base to make decisions than before. The studies carried out are likely to require several sites in the coming years. We need to take this into account through the tool we have available. Therefore, the government proposed to reschedule the scheme from 2021, which has also been decided by the Storting. Although the municipalities have been able to apply for funds for renovation and replacement since 1997, a transitional arrangement has been adopted for the years 2017 to 2020. Investment grants for the renovation and replacement of existing building stock may also be applied for during this period. However, at the end of the transitional period, the government considers it most important that the national instruments stimulate the construction of more sites, in line with the fact that the needs are also increasing to a very large extent. From 2021 onwards, municipalities must use the normal framework for upgrading and maintenance, which they receive through the income system. The government listens to the local authorities' input, assesses the needs and follows the situation beyond 2017 carefully. At the same time, we must recognise that the subsidy must be used to meet the needs of users. This must mean that we have to get more places of care for lucky days, and that is also what the investment grant is to stimulate. The municipalities now have a transitional period, but from 2021 onward, the State’s instruments must also be directed towards the real increase in the needs of municipalities in the years to come. And the country's older people, those who get older in Norway in the years to come, don't have time for the Labour Party's waiting-and-see attitude in older policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1059	The researchers have slightly different answers to what we really need, we who are now getting old. We probably need a much greater variety of offers than the government adds. I would like to remind you that a while ago Kristiansand was assigned to the best municipality of older people among the five largest cities in the country. It is a municipality that spends less of its care money on health care facilities, but much more on other types of good care. So it's important to think about diversity. From the introduction of the investment grant in 2008 and until 2015, 7700 new and refurbished sites were in fact ready-to-use. It's very important to note. So the investment grant went a little slow. If I'm going to be honest, and if we're going to use some good headcount, I guess you could say that you can say hello back to Erna Solberg's time as a municipal minister. But there was another thing that happened then. So in the situation in the municipalities, there were only 1,690 new annual works of care, while 22,000 new ones came on the red-green watch. Can the Council of State tell how many new annual works that have come in care and care per year on his watch?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1066	When it comes to the last question, I have to take it into account, but I think that the last KOSTRA figures for 2016 correspond to something in excess of 2,000 more just in the last year. We also see that the municipalities have significantly improved their local economy during this government and not least prioritize the care and care sector, both on the investment side and in the recruitment of several, more annual works. Then I fully agree with the representative that there is a need for more diversity. I also fully agree with those who say that several older people are going to live at home anymore – I am very happy about that – not least because of care technology. But I strongly warn against a notion that when we get so many more older and live so much longer, it will lead to a reduction in the need for happiness and care. No, there's going to be a great need for an increase in the number of day care places in the years to come. Although growth is going to be smaller, it's going to be a significant growth if we think about diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1073	That's where we actually agree. We need more places. But we also need people working in the sector, and we need a lot of other solutions. Unfortunately, I am afraid that the Council of State and this government are not looking at the other solutions. The figures given to me by the Ministry of Health and Welfare and by the Central Statistical Office indicate that there are around 1 400 new annual works on the Health Minister's watch. If there are more, it's good, but it's still far below the annual growth that we had on the red-green watch. So we have received state funding for the care of the elderly, a conversion of the investment grant – measures that have received the smooth layer from the Council of State’s own party traps – cut the daily activity grant and the removal of the cultural spa. Then I think, isn't it a little small and a small failure statement that the Council of State at five o'clock in twelve – two minutes in twelve – suddenly doesn't have up an older reform that will have this content to which he has so far said no? I think that's weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1080	It's completely wrong. The reform Live your whole life, which is based on experience from, among other things, My home municipality, Stavanger, which is run by the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, shows exactly what opportunities lie there to give more content to the days. The basis for that reform is much of what has been carried out until now. It is that we have introduced a legal right to the care and care of lucky people, requiring municipalities to keep waiting lists – against the votes of the Workers' Party. We have also introduced a municipal health service law that demands competence – against the votes of the Workers' Party. We make stricter demands for the municipality to expand several places, which the Workers' Party is opposed to. In addition, a number of measures have been taken to improve quality — raising skills, the introduction of municipal quality registers and the introduction of national quality indicators in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1094	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1102	‘The government has spent a disproportionate amount of time, resources and valuable competence on proposing, investigating and implementing systems that do not give older people a better offer. It may seem that the government has mainly spent its time on desktop reforms. Only now do we hear the Council of State talk about him listening to the municipalities through the input of a reform that has not yet heard the start-up shot. Does the government council mean he conducts good old age policies when he is constantly going across professional councils, municipalities' perceptions and the wishes of the elderly?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1109	The government has taken a lot of steps that will provide better services to the elderly. We have strengthened the financial instruments for developing skills and are making a major effort to increase the competence of municipal health and care services. We train several leaders and make clearer demands on management. We have significantly strengthened the investment grant for lucky day care facilities. We've created our own dementia plan, developed in close collaboration with people who have dementia, and their closest. We are working on introducing a health care standard for hospitals, which is under test. We demand a medical review for all residents of the hospital. We have a right to hospital or equivalent housing and reduced the proportion of those who, against their will, are placed in double rooms. This government has focused on increasing capacity, competence and quality, and it has been absolutely necessary to put these changes in place before we start a quality reform in the services of the elderly. Many older people experience great differences in health, mastery, well-being and security, and we know that the quality of services varies between municipalities and within municipalities. In many places, late help and poor services lead to aggravation of diseases and plagues, and old age becomes heavy and difficult to master for the elderly and not least for relatives. We have therefore been working on a reform aimed at helping older people to master their whole lives, at preventing relatives from struggling, and at allowing employees to use their skills. We need to find the tools that work in practice, and make sure that they are put into use throughout the country, and we are gripping the areas where, unfortunately, most of the time it fails: food, activity and community, health care and having services that are connected. ‘Life for the rest of your life’ is therefore a reform that comes about in cooperation with those who need the services, those who provide the services and those who are responsible for the services. We have recognised that we cannot erase quality differences and just plan a desk in the capital. That's why we're going out into the country and we're going to listen to those who wear the shoe. This is how the patient’s and relatives’ health and care services are to become a reality, through a quality reform for the elderly. I am very happy to hear that the Workers' Party very much agrees with this reform. It is a good promise that the government will continue to have broad support for the implementation of the reform in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1120	What is good about both the response of the Council of State and the political debate on care for the elderly is that there seems to be agreement on a couple of issues. A large number of these proposals, to which the Council of State refers, have full cross-political support, which is based on plans from the previous period and which have received unanimous support here in the Stortinget. That's very good. The second thing that appears to have been discovered by both the Workers' Party and the Right over the years is how systematically there is a difference between the quality of municipalities that initially have quite similar prerequisites for providing good care for the elderly, and that there does not seem to be any one-to-one response in the case of, for example: resource input versus experienced quality. That is why we called for something to be done with this two years ago, but we acknowledged that, on the part of Stortinget, we cannot start work on a major age-old reform. That's what the government has to do. Therefore, there is reason to ask again why, at the end of this period, a work is started that is in line with what the Workers' Party is thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1129	The reason why it came at that point is because it's a right time. As I said in my reply, and as I have also answered several other representatives of the Workers' Party today, much of the foundation for this reform has been laid earlier in this period of government. It's e.g. Only now that we have a quality register for municipal health and care services in place. It is a work that we had to start when we entered the government offices, and I think the representative is aware of how much time and work it requires to establish the type of quality register for a sector that has not had it before. We have established national quality indicators. But it is not least about time – a time when we have trained enough leaders in the sector, so that they have the necessary change management skills. And with the pace we now have when we train leaders in this sector, the time of implementation will be a very good time, because then the municipalities have many people who have been through leadership education and are ready to accept this kind of reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1138	It was very good in that answer, but it's completely new to me that it's these leadership development programs, which are otherwise very good, that have stopped the government from working for better old age health in the last four years. I also believe that if you look back at the time-use of the Right Party government, it went, for example. to a large amount of legal work through which, as a nursing patient on his or her older days, he or she would be entitled to hospitalization. The problem was that you already had a right to a place of residence, and the entire legal work was severely criticised in a comprehensive consultation round. In addition, when a lot of time, money and resources have been spent on investigating different forms of government administration of care for the elderly, which hardly a single municipality has been interested in being involved, much time has also been spent — with all due respect — on things that have not been very patient-oriented or better for Norwegian care for the elderly. I'm stuck with it. Does the Council of State believe that time use has been correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1147	Yes, the time has been right, and it has been reasonable. It may seem surprising to the representative that this is a point, for example. to have allowed the system of training of managers in the sector to function for a few years before coming up with such a reform. But these are some of the experiences that we have, among other things. from the reforms undertaken by the Workers' Party towards the municipalities, e.g. The cooperation reform, which was a reform for which the municipalities were not well prepared, and for which many municipalities have had to struggle with the effects of long-term, simply because it was too little time to enable the municipalities to accept the reform and implement the expectations that the reform created. That error does not want this government to repeat, and that is among other things. one of the reasons why this reform came at the right time and will be implemented, as we see it, in the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1155	‘As the Norwegian Association of Nurses refers to, there is a great shortage of nurses, and we are at risk of missing 30,000 nurses within 20 years. At the same time, the number of applicants for education has risen by 2.7 per cent, and there are a total of 3,566 more applicants than in 2016, according to Coordinated Recording. Nevertheless, the Right-Fremskritsparte government proposed no further study places in the State budget for 2017. How, then, will the Council of State ensure adequate care for the elderly?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1162	Access to adequate and competent personnel is a prerequisite for good and safe health and care services. As Minister of Knowledge, I work closely with the Minister of Health and Care to get this done. Future personnel and competences challenges in health and care services — including in the case of nurses — cannot be met only with individual measures, but must be met with several measures at the same time. This involves educational capacity, implementation, recruitment, innovation, division of tasks, organisation and a number of other factors. These are central themes both in the primary health message, Report. St. 26 for 2014-2015, Primary Health Service of the Future, and in National Health and Hospital Plan, Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The notifications also mention changing and increasing staff and competence needs in the case of nurses and promote responses to needs. Good management, skills-enhancing measures and opportunities for continuing training are important for recruiting and maintaining nurses in municipal health and care services. The government is committed to this in order to get more people to choose such jobs, and this is promised in these big messages. I would also like to stress that it is very important that municipalities follow up their responsibility to organise good practice. It provides many advantages for municipalities to receive and train nurse students in practice. Through relevant project tasks, students are prepared for their future profession, employees in the municipal sector are updated and stimulated for professional reflection and are given access to wider professional environments at the educational institutions. This also increases the possibility of developing professional and research cooperation and innovation. Overall, this can contribute to increased competence and quality in municipal health and care services. Positive experience from practical studies could also contribute to the recruitment of labour by allowing municipalities to motivate nursing students to apply for a job with them when they have completed their education. In this year's state budget, the government has put off about $12 billion. to actions under the Competence Plan 2020, which is the Government’s recruitment, competence and professional development plan for municipal health and care services up to 2020. Competence commitment 2020 covers more than 50 actions in the 2017 budget year, broken down by six strategies. We have increased the appropriations for the further training of employees in the municipal care services. This also includes increased funding for national leadership training for primary health services, so that from the autumn of 2016 there were 160 managers who started this study. We need leaders who know where the shoe prints, who know how to demand employees with the right skills, and who organize the work well. In the case of admission to nurse training, which is part of this recruitment work, it is not there that there is less education. The survey has increased since 2010, and if you look at the figures, for example: from 2010 to 2016, they have gone from 4,885 to 5,422. The number of persons who have completed this training has also increased, by about 20 pst. from 2010 – from 3,179 to 3,784 in 2016. In other words, it's going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1175	Here we were told about many good measures taken to improve the quality of nursing as a subject, what we can do in the municipalities, and what can be done in our educational institutions, etc. But what I asked you was how we're going to increase the number of people who actually work as nurses, in addition to those we have today. I don't think the council responded to that. We need more nurses. We need not only better quality, but also more nurses. Like some other areas where there is a greater need for skills in the labour market, for more people to take up vocational education, there have been no more places to study. There have been some places of study in ICT, where we need massively many more places of study. Nor has anything from the government been presented there – very few places compared to the need. Why won't the government set up more places to study?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1180	The government is to set up and have done more study places. In the health field, for example: in the field of health technology, to which we have given money. But the biggest discussion with the Workers' Party about study places has been that the Workers' Party at least seems to have wanted to use it as a kind of countercyclical policy. I think that has been a bad idea and a bad policy, because it is mainly new jobs you need. As far as the question is concerned, my point is that if you look at the numbers, it hasn't been a negative development. Rather, there are both several nurses being admitted to the studies, i.e. students, and several candidates, with an increase of 20 pst. from 2010 to today. It is also true that the recruitment challenges of the future, as I explained, cannot only be solved by increasing the number of places of study. And finally, of course, every year when we put together the state budget, we assess the need for more places of study – and we will do so this year as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1187	Why the Workers' Party is promoting proposals for more places of study, obviously the Council of State Røe Isaksen has better answers than we do, he believes – that it is about countercyclical policies. It's about a need. The Council of State may, of course, ask the Confederation of Nurses or ICT Norway whether this is a counter-cyclical policy for them. No, it doesn't. It is about the fact that there are vacant jobs that need to be filled by professionals. That's why we have to increase the number of places of study as well. That's the primary reason. In addition, there is, in fact, a very good response when there is such a high unemployment rate among people under 30 years of age, and once again, the nurse’s study is among the 10 most popular studies in Norway. You would easily be able to fill out many places of study with highly competent students. It's true that it's increasing, but it's not close to the need. So the question remains unanswered: why doesn't the government do more to satisfy the need we have in the future, by training enough nurses?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1192	I did not believe that the increase in study places in itself is a counter-cyclical policy. My impression after meeting this several times during this ageing period is that the Workers' Party was at least earlier, when the unemployment was on the way up – now it's going down – very concerned about it as a counter-cyclical measure. Now leave it, because now it's the nurses we're talking about. The simple and complicated answer is that the government has spent most of its resources on other recruitment measures that are important in the healthcare system and on municipal health and care services. It's important to us that when we look at the numbers, it goes in the right direction – there are more nurses. So the question is, why haven't we presented it before? No, it is because we have had other priorities that have also been important in health and care, in health and knowledge, but in future budgets we assess every year – also because we know that there is a great need – whether we need more places of study, both within ICT and within the nursing study.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1203	‘The new care scheme will be an improvement for many, but some will be considerably more difficult. Parents of anti-developmental youths over 18 years of age, who have previously been entitled to care when the youth has become seriously or critically ill, are now losing this right. This applies to few families, but they are hit hard. It appears to be an incomprehensible change. How will the Council of State ensure that these families do not receive even more burdens as a result of this tightening?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1210	I am pleased that the representative agrees that the government's proposal for a new pension scheme will be an improvement for most people. There was also a great deal of agreement here on the Stortinget a few weeks ago when a new scheme was adopted. Today, the scheme is characterised by a complex regulatory framework with many demanding conditions of judgement and exceptions. It makes it difficult to understand the nature and challenges of dealing with administrative matters. In a new arrangement, therefore, we wanted to simplify legislation, while wanting to extend the system so that we could include more parents and their sick children. One of the measures was to combine two different provisions, one with a 12-year age limit, and the other with an 18-year age limit. We thought it was right that the parents should receive care allowance as long as the child is considered a child under the Swedish Social Security Act, and therefore proposed a general upper age limit of 18 years. It is a significant extension. When children reach the age of 18, they are regarded as adults and are granted independent rights in the social security system as adults. This applies to disabled persons as to health care. When a person reaches the age of 18, he/she will be able to receive his/her own living benefits from the State, such as: disability insurance, which shall ensure that the person can meet his or her necessary needs. Furthermore, aid may be granted to long-term sick persons with special needs for supervision and care so that they can establish private care. This applies even if a person lives at home with parents after 18 years of age. We therefore proposed to remove today’s rule of exception that care should be given to parents of home-dwelling mental retardants over 18 years of age in those periods where they have a very serious illness. I would like to point out that it is a primary municipal responsibility to provide the necessary health and care services to families with large care obligations. The representative’s group will be chronically disabled and will have long-term needs, even after the age of 18. These families will have plenty of time to plan and establish cooperation with the municipal relief and service services, including on how to deal with acute situations. I trust that the municipalities and hospitals, in cooperation with the relatives, can handle this. I would also like to point out that we are now including permanently ill children in the care scheme. These are today only in subtle exceptional cases. It is a major extension and will benefit many families with people with developmental disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1225	This is a small group, but there are families who already have it very tough. Many of these children – because maybe that's what you have to call them even if they're 18 years old – can't stand to understand. They're very dependent on someone who actually understands them. Then it's not just to conjure up people who can handle it. Who will follow these children when they reach the age of 18, if their parents lose their pension rights in the law? Will it then only be up to each municipality to take care of it? Doesn't the Council of State see that this tightening is unfortunate and will affect these families, and not least the users, who are in a completely different category than other sick 18-year-olds who can talk their own way, while this is young people who are totally dependent on close relatives who can contribute to an extra difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1232	In the future, care allowance, as at present, will provide a temporary guarantee of income for working parents to care for their sick children. In addition to that, we have aid and the municipal welfare service. It is a municipal responsibility today to provide good and sound services to its citizens. Social welfare benefits are mentioned. In addition, municipalities may also have other arrangements, where they and their families make arrangements around the families. There may be other needs for those over 18 who live at home than for those who live in institutions. People living in institutions can also get help from others. At the same time, it will be very often that it may be good for children over the age of 18 to have their family with them. I trust that the municipalities, together with their parents and hospitals, will be able to find good solutions for the families involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1239	I'm not sure if I share that trust when you see how the system actually works today. It works very randomly, and these are very vulnerable families. In addition, aid is a social benefit that the family receives until the child reaches the age of 18. That's when the aid fails. Care allowance, or what was previously called care pay, is very arbitrary from municipality to municipality, so there is no guarantee in that way either. I understand that there has been a need for simplification. I recognise that there has been an improvement in the care scheme, but the question is whether the Council of State will follow this development closely and see if these families get an extra burden and an extra problem when their young people might be hospitalized and unable to understand. Will the Council of State follow this closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1246	I notice that the representative does not leave the municipality much trust. I choose to trust that municipalities will find good solutions with their families. But to the specific question of the Council of State will follow this up: Yes, it is obvious that we have to follow up on it. We are now implementing a major reform within the care scheme, where we include more than twice as many users — an estimated 9,000 more users than is currently available. We double the budget and make significant simplifications and improvements, including by reducing the disease requirement. That we're going to follow up on the scheme is obvious. It is important that we also make sure that the reform does not have unintended consequences. Of course, the change that the representative makes will be one of the things that you'll have to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1256	‘The representatives of the Government of the parties have several times assured that the Government will arrange for payment information from Nav to be sent in the mail to those who need it. We are still informed that this has not been completed. Why has the Council of State not fulfilled these promises?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1263	Yes, on several occasions I have answered both orally and in writing to questions from Stortinget about Nav's practice regarding the monthly payment notices to the pensioners. In my replies, I have stressed that all decisions and new information that are to be considered as important messages under the eManagement Regulation should continue to be sent in writing to people who are not digital users or who have reserved themselves against receiving digital mail. However, monthly payment messages which do not contain new information compared to the previous month’s payment message are not considered to be an important message requiring the message to be sent as a mail to those who have reserved or are not digital users. However, the Employment and Welfare Act will always send a message if the performance changes beyond regulations and changes in rates and will continue to send the annual task to users. If users have reserved for digital mail, they will receive the annual task and such notices of changes in the mail. Those who do not have a PC, electronic identification or self-registration skills can contact NAV Kontaktsenter and get these payment details read out. In specific cases, users may still need to document income information. In such cases, the user may also request the printing of the payment message. As I replied to the representative Erlend Wiborg on 29 March this year, the supervisor at NAV Kontaktsenter together with the caller will assess whether there is a need for a printout in the individual case. Such needs will, for example: be whether the user needs documentation for a loan request or to complain about possible mispayments. I have asked the Working and Welfare Department to act flexibly towards those who contact NAV Kontaktsenter. This has been assured by the Director of Labour and Welfare that they will be, and I have no indication that it will not be followed in practice. The experience so far is that there are relatively few who are now asking for this information to be provided in writing. There were relatively many requests when this was new, but now the enquiries are back on some normal level, i.e. how it was before the change was made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1273	Thanks for the answer. It wasn't much new in the answer the Council of State now gave. I expect that when the said representative Wiborg writes in his reading that the Progress Party is clear that Nav has to show flexibility to its users asking for printing their pensions – there are actually many who need regular letters in the mail to feel secure that they get the pension they need – it means that if you want to receive a letter in the post each month as a pensioner, you can get it. If not, please provide incorrect information in the letters sent by the representative Wiborg. Then there is a question for Hauglie: Will the Council of State contribute to a uniform view between the representatives of the Progress Party in the United Kingdom who are responsible for this, and the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1278	As I have said, both in the previous answer and in the previous answer, I have been concerned that Nav should show flexibility especially initially, when this is new and perceived as new among many of Nav's users. As I have also said, Nav will continue to send written information when the information changes. When it is the same information month after month, it will not be sent out in writing. This is when you can contact NAV Kontaktsenter and get it read out. If you have to have it in writing because you have to apply for a loan or something else, you can also get it printed out. After I have been informed by the directorate, Nav does not have systems where printing can be offered on an ongoing basis to individuals. Either that doesn't apply to anyone, or it applies to everyone. That means that a change, so that you can get continuous prints anyway, will mean that everyone has to get it. In that case, the computer systems will have to be reprocessed and at least 30 million will have to be allocated. kr to fix it. That is why I have been busy getting the information when it is new, but when it is the same information month after month, you have to contact Nav to get it read out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1287	Then the systems are more important than humans, I understand. But I don't quite understand what the Council of State is doing in the delimitation for when you can get this performance on paper. The majority said that ‘the importance of ensuring adequate information on performance and payments is underlined’. Now the Labour Party was not in that majority, but the majority, among others. The State Council's own party, wrote it in a note. But now it is the Council of State that defines that what is important information and the basis for obtaining the benefit in writing is a loan request, but the individual's security of getting it is set aside. The Council of State believes that the Council of State has a better understanding of what a pensioner needs than, for example, what a pensioner needs. the pensioners' associations, which think this is completely wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1292	As I said in my first answer, we now see that the number of contacts to NAV Kontaktsenter is about the same level as it was before doing this. So much might also indicate that now that this has become more known and you have got more information about what's going on and not what's going on, it's calmed down a lot of pensioners. What is to be regarded as an important message is defined in the eManagement Regulation § 9 — it concerns individual decisions and prior notices under the Administrative Act, other communications relevant to his legal position, and communications which, for other reasons, are of particular importance to ensure that he receives. The social security benefits we are discussing now are the social security benefits where the same information is sent out month after month, where there are no changes in what it says. In addition, information should be provided when there is new information, obviously, there is other information, and it needs to be notified, or for example. the annual task, of which many will also be involved. But when there's no change in the information, you usually don't want to send it out. You can get this via NAV Kontaktsenter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1304	‘On behalf of a filmmaker, a Danish law firm has issued claims to Norwegian consumers who suspects have seen films via file-sharing pages. The Consumer Council believes that the claim appears baseless, and asks people to ignore both letters and demands. The company has sued for obtaining the identity of about 12 000 IP addresses from various Internet service providers, to which the court has the right to do so under copyright law. Does the Council of State mean that it will be useful?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1311	The rules to prevent illegal downloading and sharing of copyrighted material on the Internet were introduced in the copyright law in 2013. The background was that illegal downloading has brought on those who create and practice art, significant financial losses. The law introduces strict conditions for the provision of subscription information as well as the introduction of security mechanisms to ensure that these matters are properly dealt with. It is for the courts to assess, after a balance of interests, whether the Internet service providers should be required to provide the identity of a subscriber. The starting point is that the subscription can be linked to an IP address that has been used for illegal copyright download, usually film. In order for the identity to be disclosed, the court must find that the grounds of extradition outweigh the grounds of professional secrecy. In the assessment, the right shall balance the subscriber’s interest against the rightholder’s access to that information, taking into account the gravity, scale and adverse effects of the intervention. In addition, Nkom, the national communication authority, in advance of the decision of the court, shall decide whether to exempt the provider from the obligation of professional secrecy. So there are strict conditions that have been added to the courts to assess. The specific matter to which the representative Rotevatn refers is still under consideration in the legal system, and therefore I do not find it natural to comment on that matter as long as it is not finally settled. However, the Supreme Court has recently, in another case, assessed the issue of the provision of subscription information. At the Supreme Court hearing on 26 April, the identity of eight IP addresses that could be linked to file sharing of a single film was not disclosed to the rightholder. The reason for this was that the extent of the violation and violations did not satisfy the law's extradition requirements. Therefore, I believe that the decision of the Supreme Court shows that the law balances the different interests in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1323	I'm familiar with the court-martialed ordeal to which the Council of State refers, and I'm happy for him. I also understand that the Council of State refuses to comment on a specific case that is still pending in the judiciary. At the same time, this is nothing new. There have been a number of examples of cases in recent years in which different lawyers have been given the right to submit claims, and there are thousands who have received these claims. Many of the requirements are designed in a way that saves consumers and doubts about their rights. As the Council of State said, one of the purposes of the opening that was given in copyright law is that one should go after it could call the big fish, i.e. people who run commercial file sharing on a large scale, etc. But what's quite obvious is that one here is going after a lot of people who are obviously not in the category of big fish. Doesn't the Council of State have a view as to whether it is a practice of the laws that it believes are justifiable?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1330	Yes, I do, and I believe that we also pay attention to the new copyright law that is now being dealt with in Stortinget. I look forward to having a debate and discussion before the summer just what the representative Rotevatn has to say, that it is the big ones, who systematically and clearly intend to do so, the law is supposed to hit – not the small ones, where there may also be some who don't know what they are actually doing. I believe that the list should be very high in order to implement such drastic measures as we hear here. Therefore, I believe that the decision of the Supreme Court shows that the law is able to balance it in a good way, and the ruling that has now come from the Supreme Court will therefore also contribute to the formation of case law in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1335	I'm happy with the last answer. Now I think the Council of State is clear and – in my view – clear in the right direction. Not least, it's an important point to bring here that there's a lot of people who don't always know that they're doing something illegal. But I want to follow a last track, which also identifies the thing I'm taking from here. It's that they demand this from Denmark and not from Norway. One thing that is significant about it is that in copyright law, a person is required to notify the data protection authorities before going to the collection of IP addresses – in our case, it is the Data Protection Authority. That requirement shall ensure that Norwegian authorities are able to exercise the necessary oversight over actors processing sensitive personal information, which is an absolute IP address. This requirement still exists when correcting this type of requirement from a country other than Norway. The question then arises: How will the Council of State prevent — or try to prevent — the circumvention of important personal data requirements in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1344	The representative Rotevatn asks a very relevant question, which I don't think is the last time we're witnessing. We cannot have it so that everyone living within Norway's borders will be able to deal with our strict personal law, while those from abroad should be able to circumvent it. That is why I am going to take a closer look at the issue and the matter that is being raised. Now I'm waiting for this case and for a possible verdict to become valid, but this is clearly a problem that I'm sure we're going to see more of, and which we from the political side therefore have to go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1352	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: «The singers at the Norwegian Opera & Ballet are concerned about the future of management seeking short-term contracts for future song soloists. In 2016, the song soloists entered into an agreement not to increase the number of permanent employees due to them. the economic situation. The argument is now being used for artistic reasons. What is the opinion of the Council of State that the Norwegian Opera & Ballet wants more use of temporary posts in Norway’s largest music and stage art institution?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1361	The Norwegian Opera & Ballet will present opera, ballet and concerts of the highest artistic quality. I understand that the high demand for artistic quality and the need for flexibility in programming make this issue raised in an institution like the Opera. In a performance environment that the Opera represents, we expect every setup and performance to be of the highest quality. The issue of fixed and temporary employment is matters regulated in the collective bargaining agreement, and is therefore a matter between the parties locally in the Opera. The Ministry assumes, both as owner and provider of grants, that the Opera operates in accordance with applicable laws, regulations and administrative provisions, including the laws and regulations applicable to employment. I have full confidence in the board of directors and the management of the Opera and that as a responsible employer they deal properly with the issue of temporary employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1370	I hear indications that the Council of State has confidence that the board of directors will hold a collective agreement and agreements between the parties. But there is reason to point out that the signals the management has expressed are not in line with the special agreement that exists today. Access to temporary employment is precisely due to the number of permanent jobs. The consequence of breaking this is that the Working Environment Act will then apply. Does the Minister of Culture see and understand the seriousness of the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1377	Of course, I register and follow carefully that there is some concern at the Norwegian Opera & Ballet. I have full confidence in the board and the management's work in recruiting new leaders who can help to ensure that there is still a high-quality opera and ballet and a wide audience. Then I hope the representative Liadal understands that as the responsible state council, I cannot go into individual matters relating to matters regulated in collective agreements, even individual matters that are a matter between the parties locally. We are concerned by the Ministry of Culture that the Norwegian Opera & Ballet is following the laws and regulations that exist, and we also have confidence in the Board's ability to put the strategy and direction forward for the institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1386	There's a reason to ask the question again. Does the Council of State consider that there is a premise to be able to take advantage of annual target positions in the contract to which you relate today, i.e. a minimum of 15 permanent posts in order to be able to take advantage of annual target positions at all? Does the Council of State realize that this is a breach of today's agreement and that the option is to employ everyone in permanent posts? That'll mean a lot more than 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1391	I have to repeat my answer. It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to ensure the proper organisation of the business, to align the Share Act. The Ministry, or I as Minister, neither will nor will provide leadership for the internal organisation of the Opera. We do not deal with individual matters relating to matters regulated in the collective agreement, and this is a matter that is up to the parties locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1399	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘The Ministry of Culture has for many years communicated that they will make proposals to change the law governing the retirement of ballet dancers and opera singers at the Norwegian Opera & Ballet [[Opportunity Act]] What is the progress in the Ministry of Culture’s work on the new Act on Operation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1408	The economic situation of the Norwegian Opera & Ballet is very difficult. This is largely due to the financial burdens imposed by the Act of Operation. Sustainable pension schemes need to be developed in the Opera. It requires the termination of the present Operational Penalty. The Ministry of Culture has worked for a long time on a proposal to amend the Act on Operation. It's a complicated work that takes time. On Wednesday last week, the management of the Opera and the employee organisations were briefed on the main lines of the proposal that the Ministry is working on. The Ministry wishes to replace the present Act on Operational Retirement by a system which ensures that the artistic performers receive multi-annual aid for conversion when they reach the age limit for compulsory retirement. The details of such a new arrangement should, as far as possible, be agreed locally between the parties. I hope to have a good dialogue in the work with the Opera management and employee organisations on what we see as absolutely necessary changes in a pension scheme that is not sustainable for the Opera economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1419	Thanks for the answer. What surprises me a little bit is that the government has also set up another sample, which looks at the pension for all those who have special pension arrangements. What amazes me is that you have not been able to bring the law of surgery and those who have special agreements in connection with it into the same work. So you choose to treat opera singers and ballet dancers separately. What is the reason why this has not been seen in conjunction with all the others who are now under assessment in relation to special pension agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1426	That's because – as I also said in my answer – this is a work that takes a long time. It is a good time since this work was started. The government believes that there is a very necessary work going on, because we cannot defend the maintenance of a specific pension scheme for the artistic staff at the Opera that involves a retirement age that is actually 31, 20 and 16 years below the working environment law today sets the upper age limit, namely 72 years. The proposal is about facilitating artists to move to another job after a career in the Opera, instead of receiving a retirement life at the age limit. We're talking about the special age limit of 41 for dancers, 52 for song soloists and 56 for cross singers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1433	I am fully aware that the pension costs of the Norwegian Opera & Ballet have been and are a demanding matter. At the same time, however, it is also about caring for those who have actually chosen to do this as their life’s work — and entered into this under the pension scheme that has existed until now. In his first reply, the Minister of Culture referred to a meeting with the management of the Opera and the employee organisations. Can she say a little about what this transition period is all about? And how long does one want such a transitional period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1440	We have had some meetings with the people involved – we have worked for some time on this proposal – and we have invited the parties to come up with their views on the matter before we finish the hearing note. We aim to send out the hearing note if not too long. That's where we'll get back to the details. But it's true that we have to make a replacement, as a conversion grant, when they reach the age limit for compulsory retirement, when we phase out the pension scheme as it is today. I understand that it creates uncertainty. That is why I think it is absolutely necessary that, once we have started this work – which was a long time ago – we continue it, in dialogue with the parties, and that this is something that we can clarify, so that there will not be too much time of uncertainty for those affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1450	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice and Defence the following questions: ‘In the decades following the cold days of the war, the assessment of the need for rapidly accessible shelters has changed, and much of the existing capacity will take some time to clarify. But in today's situation of terror and alternative warfare, the threat to the civilian population could be about attacks with toxic gases, viruses, radioactive radiation, and more, and the attacks could come quickly and without warning. To what extent does the Council of State consider urban areas such as Oslo and others to have a good and appropriate preparedness for shelter?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1459	In Report. See, inter alia, point 39 of the 2003–2004 Guidelines.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Residence spaces shall continue to be part of the protection that society should be able to provide for its citizens. Existing shelters shall be maintained. Civil defence shall conduct the surveillance of detention rooms in order to ensure that they comply with an adequate standard.’;» Refuge spaces are permanent shelters intended to protect the population from damage, primarily in the event of armed conflict. A modern society needs civil protection measures. Existing shelters must therefore be maintained and maintained. It is enshrined in the Civil Protection Act of 2010, including: the following three protective measures are identified: alerting the population, evacuation of the civilian population in war or when war threatens, and public and private shelters for the protection of the civilian population. These measures are deemed necessary in the event of an armed conflict. These measures provide a good protection for the civilian population, given adequate alert time. There is also no alternative to replace the existing measures while providing an equivalent degree of protection. Although the protective measures are primarily for armed conflict, that is, war, crises and situations may arise where one can imagine the need for this kind of protective measure. Unlike armed conflict, any terrorist attack using toxic gases, viruses, radioactive radiation, etc. they are unlikely to be notified in advance. The vast majority of shelters are used daily for other activities such as storage and the like with defined requirements for preparation time. Accumulation rooms will therefore be difficult to operate in the event of unannounced events. A peacetime terrorist attack requires immediate protection of the population. In these situations, the civilian population is also vulnerable because we have seen, in experience, that these types of threat actors can direct attacks directly against civilian targets. NATO underlines that civil protection, crisis management and robust societal critical functions are a prerequisite for each country and thus the overall preparedness and defence of the alliance. NATO has adopted a number of fundamental expectations for the Member States. In all crises, countries shall ensure the maintenance of functioning national crisis management, the management of many injuries and movements of people, safe food, water and energy supply and secure communications and transport systems. The Government has therefore established a programme for the further development of total defence and society’s resilience. A more challenging security policy situation means that those who want to secure society need better tools in the toolbox.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1474	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There may be a lot of reasoning about the transitions between a traditional armed conflict and what we will see of states like this. use terror as its form of war in the future, and other terrorist organisations. So that discussion is extensive, but I want to limit myself now – we have quite a short time – to what is the status of the law, to which the Council of State also refers. The draft investigation by the Directorate of Civil Protection in 2016 concluded that: ‘In practice, shelters have not been managed as a long-term safeguard measure. New shelters have not been built and the existing ones have an undetermined status.» It also states that there is a need for an emergency response force in order to deploy the facilities, and it does not exist, and it also states that the private sector responsible for most of the shelters is rarely aware of this responsibility and what it entails. So the situation described is pretty dramatic in this concept investigation. I would like to ask the Council of State if he agrees that the situation is serious as regards the status of the shelters.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1486	Today, Norway has 25 000 shelters with a capacity of about 2.5 million people. These are broken down by approx. 300000 places in public shelter and approx. 2.2 million seats in private shelters. It is true that after changes to the law in 1998, there is no longer any requirement for all new buildings over a certain size to have shelters. It changed at the end of the 1990s. So, of course, the security situation you're looking at, and the changes that have happened around us, suggest that you might need to have a new review of the conditions of Norwegian shelter, but once again it's important for me to stress that in that threat picture, when we talk about that kind of terrorist act, shelter isn't the most suitable instrument, but it's important that we have a good offer on the shelter side anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1491	I thank you for the additional reply as well. There are many things that can be said about possible situations up against a terrorist incident, where the role of the shelters can be updated, and I mentioned states that are using terror. I think we can see many alternative forms of warfare in the future, where the relevance of shelters can be increased. What's the situation today is that 80 pst. of the shelters of 2.5 million people mentioned by the Council of State are handled by private individuals. It is stated in this concept investigation that they are rarely aware of their responsibility to equip them, maintain them and prepare them, etc. We see it, for example. Here in Oslo, where Stortinget Station, National Theatre Station, Greenland Station are the main shelters in the center. The question is, how are we going to make sure that they are equipped to attack with gas, with viruses, with nuclear weapons and to receive large parts of the population in the shortest possible time? It's not a point to say that it's going to take a long time to prepare them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1496	It appears from the current regulation of 1995 that the owner and user of the shelter shall keep the room in order and be responsible for preparing it for use in the event of emergency. Checks in the period 2008 to 2012 revealed a lack of maintenance in several shelters, but – and it is important to underline – it also showed that spaces used actively in peacetime are in good condition. So it's a composite picture. In recent years, there have been quite a lot of private activity to shut down shelters, but I can assure the representative that the DSB at Civil Protection, which administers the system, has established a strict practice. Therefore, few shelters have been closed down, but it is, of course, necessary to look at the conditions of some of the shelters, precisely because the security situation has changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1506	It doesn't look like the representative has arrived, but we'll wait a bit. As the representative has now arrived, we are going to the question, from the representative Lene Wagslid to Minister of Justice and Defence Per-Willy Amundsen. The President shall draw attention to the duty of representatives to be present when the question is to be asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1513	I'm so sorry, President. It shall not be repeated. ‘On the Notodden, there are exciting plans for the establishment of transitional dwellings for the purpose of repatriation after settlement. Transitional residence in Telemark is high on the priority list in the capacity plan, cf. Report. [[2014-2015]] St. 12 Development plan for the capacity of criminal services. In the 2017 budget, the Judicial Committee has written a positive note on the Notodden model and the good work being done. What is the status of establishing more transitional dwellings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1522	The government is working to increase settlement capacity in Norway and has done so throughout the government period. Transitional dwellings are prisons with a lower level of safety. They are a specific rehabilitation measure for prisoners in need of penetrating or social training, planning for release, networking, etc. which cannot be offered through criminal proceedings in ordinary prisons. Accomodation in a transitional residence is combined with recreation, where prisoners in the daytime have employment in the form of either work or education outside the community. Criminal services today have eight transitional housing units distributed around the country. Report. St. 12 for 2014-2015, the development plan for capacity in criminal care provided projections showing a long-term need for increased capacity equivalent to 1000 new posts by 2040 and that 550 of these must be established by 2020. Quality assurance draft selection studies have been carried out for the Eastern region including Telemark and for the Agder counties. There is a primary need to expand capacity with high security. In 2015, money was allocated to establish 41 new closed prisons and one own youth unit of up to four places. Money has been granted for expansion at Ullersmo prison and at Inner Eastfold prison department Eidsberg, with 96 and 85 seats respectively. This is necessary to replace parts of Oslo prison that need to be laid down. These places will be completed in June 2017. Money has been allocated in 2016 and 2017 for the design of new prisons in Agder with a total of 300 places. The government will continue its efforts to expand Norwegian prison capacity in order to avoid the recurrence of settlement queues and to provide a sufficient number of custody facilities for the police. We need to look at the need for prison places in a national perspective and on the basis of professional assessments. In this context, several transitional dwellings will also be assessed, but as mentioned, there is therefore a need to increase the capacity of high-security spaces. The Government will therefore return to the priority of actions, allocation needs and progress in the annual budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1535	I thank you for your answer. At Notodden and in Telemark, we have been working for a long time to develop a model for transition buildings. The Minister of Justice and Security is probably also familiar with the Notodden model and that there is a lot of excitement in the Notodden when it comes to the efforts of businesses and the municipality, which could mean a lot to the commitment that has been made to reconciliation and is going back to society. I understand that the Minister for Justice and Security cannot comment on matters in concrete terms, but the Minister for Justice and Security believes that the work done, for example. on the Notodden, will there be a good basis and an important starting point for the framework for the establishment of transitional buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1542	The Notodden model, to which the representative, Mrs Vagslid, refers, is absolutely worth looking at, as the Committee in its form has also pointed out. I believe this is something we should be able to assess in the further work. In the further development of criminal services, the Ministry shall assess different cooperation models, different organisational solutions, the precise objective of which is to provide the best possible opportunity for repatriation through good and possible criminal enforcement. As mentioned above, the government will return to priorities for action, allocation needs and progress. Of course, we will also look at this model in that context and come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1549	Thanks for the answer. I found it very positive that the Minister of Justice and Defence said they wanted to assess this. As I said in my question, Telemark is listed in the capacity plan, and there are certainly different, good locations for new transitional buildings. But for the Labour Party, it's very important that we make sure that one gets less criminal when one comes out of prison than when one comes into prison. As you can see, there is a need for more transitional buildings. The Minister of Justice and Defence says he wants to come back to the Storting with this. Does the Minister for Justice and Security have a time perspective on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1556	It is clear that this will also be affected in the ordinary budgets. I share the Vågslid's view that it is an important, priority measure to facilitate repatriation to society. There's also something the government has prioritised and taken seriously. We have several measures to contribute to this. That's $12 million. in the current budget for 2017 to establish three new units for the treatment of drug problems in prison. The system is to provide prison drug treatment and good transitions to further treatment after release. The government has also provided 10 million. For example, in the United Kingdom, the number of prisoners in prisons is higher than the number of prisoners in prisons, and the government has provided funding to extend drug law enforcement programmes and is now a nationwide offer. At all, this is something that the government has taken seriously, and on which we show the effectiveness of measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1561	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-03.ana.ud198e1575	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
