ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e28	The called alternate of the South-Trundellag County, Ferhat Güven, now takes the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e47	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and Per-Willy Amundsen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e56	Before the 2013 elections, the Minister of Defence, on behalf of the Right, announced a massive increase in country military capabilities. However, the Council of State has come no longer in four years than the continued investigation of the land-use plan. The right promised more efficiency and increased cooperation between police and defence, but started not to present a common threat assessment, as the Storting had agreed. That the cooperation between the police and the defense did not work well enough is serious, and it is documented by the National Audit Office. It may have been difficult for the Minister of Defence to cooperate closely with both the former Council of State, Anundsen and the current Council of State, Amundsen – I see it. But then a strong prime minister is needed. And the executive power here has been too weak. There are many forms of political discharge. You can blame your predecessors -- it's a lot of use. You can blame the economy, or the worst of all, on the case handler. I am surprised that the Council of State, in this serious matter of object protection, chooses to push a case handler in front of it on the question of what should be public. For in the letter to the Stortinget on 25 April, the Council of State claims that it has been drawn up at the level of case handlers and not anchored in the department management. A State Council is responsible for its department – sentence. I want to ask the Minister of Defense about her own promises of openness. Where did it go? The National Audit Office has clearly criticised the Ministry of Defence’s decision to keep the summary of the Object Protection Report secret. In the decision on secrecy – did the Council of State have support from the Prime Minister? Did she make the decision herself? Or was it done by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e69	Here it was very much at once, and I'll try to sort as well as I can. Firstly, during this government period, the government has carried out a significant uplift in the defence economy. A systematic underfunding was necessary after very many years. It was in the years when the Workers' Party was in government. The centre party has expressed itself that they thought it was not so important to bet on the defence at the time. Of course, this promise benefits all departments of defence, but it is also an important part of strengthening cooperation with the civil sector. And as Huitfeldt's representative well knows, the cooperation between the defence and the civil sector is now a separate chapter in the long-term plan, precisely where we say that the defence capabilities should be even more dimensioned than before also for support to civil society. The cooperation between the police and the defence is much better than it has been in the past. It's being practiced and trained together. We have liaisons with each other, and plans are being developed together. It's at all a good cooperation, as it feels at all levels. So to the last of several issues related to object protection. Here we've had a discussion in the main hall that I think was good, about the question of who is the information traveler, and who has the authority to assess grading. In-depth professional judgements are made on the issue, including: based on what we know about threat actors, intelligence and anything else that can be crucial for assessing the graduation issue. Of course, it was also done in this case. I have made a thorough presentation in the Stortnings open hearing, and I also explained this in Stortinget when the Stortinget debated the question of grading. I have not at any time pushed case handlers in front of me, but just explained the process that is in all such cases, that there is dialogue at case handler level. It was supposed to be missing, too! It's always done, and it's always going to do that. Of course, it is I, as the Council of State, who have the highest responsibility in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e84	Now we got a show on what's the problem here. The Council of State owes it to its predecessors, but does not take responsibility for its own guard. It was a clear promise from Prime Minister Solberg to take greater responsibility for preparedness. She was going to set up an emergency element in the Prime Minister's office to force cooperation between police and defence. The Council of State continues to point back to the problem, and in the future to resolve it, but the responsibility for this matter lies with the Minister of Defence himself. I didn't ask many questions, I asked one. I did not get an answer to that. That is why I want to repeat it: the decision to keep secret – did the Council of State support the Prime Minister, did she take the decision herself, or was the decision made by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e91	Firstly, over this period of ageing, the government has both made use of significant resources and made a significant effort to improve both police and defence cooperation and social security. We have put forward a long-term plan that underlines this. We have made significant increases in appropriations for this. We have reduced the alert time for helicopters by one hour, just to be able to provide support both to the police and to the special forces. We have established a common counter-terrorist centre, a common cyber coordination centre. There is no need to force – as the representative says – cooperation between police and defence, because the government has stressed that this is such an important part of our preparedness that we do this better and better. We have made new aid instructions. We have improved and simplified the work of asking for assistance. I believe that this work is now in good hands, although there will always be challenges to tackle and solve. It is not the office that determines. It was a professional assessment that eventually made our decision politically that it was necessary to further grade the summary in the report.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e98	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Jorod Asphjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e103	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Justice and Security. We all know the history of resources that did not match July 22nd, and the need for better interaction to strengthen the work of culture, attitude and police leadership. Six years later, we're still not in target. The Research Manager of the SINTEF Security Department, Stian Antonsen, said to Dagbladet last June that research done after 22 July shows that interaction between departments and agencies is not working. My question to the Council of State is as follows: Is the Council of State satisfied with the work done to improve the interaction between departments and departments in this period of government, and is the Council of State open to the provision of a growing communication on the work of culture and management, as a contribution to improving preparedness in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e112	I feel, like the Minister of Defence, that we have very good cooperation – across police and defence. I find it difficult to recognize myself in the description that I perceive the opposition is trying to give. On the contrary – both at political level and down in organisations – good cooperation. One practices together, one finds good solutions together, and that has not been lacking in political decisions where police and defence also cooperate very well. So I know that you don't always agree with all the assessments that are made, but then you have appropriate mechanisms to solve it in a good way. I feel that is happening, and that the description you're trying to give in public space is simply not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e119	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e124	My follow-up goes to the Minister of Defence. It's because I think it's incomprehensible, the secret to which the Ministry of Defence has committed itself, but I respect that that kind of decision should be left to the government. But it's a very serious debt that comes from the National Audit Office on the state of object protection. My question is, we know that the Homeland Protection itself is a berebel both in our defense and in our preparedness, and there is uncertainty in the Ministry of Defence about how many Homeland soldiers we have. What we know is that the leader of Homeland knows this very well. A few days ago, I was in the South. There they could tell that only in Agder and Rogaland reduce one from 6,300 Homeland soldiers to 3,500, and in Agder reduces one from 2,500 to 400. Does it bother the Minister of Defense when we know the state of object protection, as the Riksrevision has documented?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e132	Firstly, no decision has been taken on the disposal of HV forces yet. There is a process in progress in the Defense to find the optimal strength structure to solve all the problems. I have explained in detail in the open hearing how I believe the preparedness work is being carried out today, and that includes, of course, HV at the highest level. So that said, HV's strength structure has been stable over the last five years, that is, even before we took over, and the reality is that now that we're adapting the number of HV soldiers to the actual filling rate, we're going to be at about the same level as we are doing today. That's the real number. But then there will be some adjustments within that figure to dispose of HV forces where the need is greatest, and it's a defence professional assessment made by the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e137	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e142	The National Audit Office's report does not seem to make any particular impression on the government. The core of that report is so strong that it is the strongest criticism you can give. Some of the discussion is that the defence has to point out the necessary civil key objects. The center party believes that more objects have to be identified within energy and modern data communications. More people are needed at a time when the emergency situation requires it in all areas. The current strength target of Home Protection is 45,000, with 42 000 in the HV regions and 3 000 in the effort forces. The strengths are there – the ability to meet what the Riksrevision points out, and what is the new emergency situation. My question is: Will the government follow up the Riksaudition's very serious report by increasing today's number of soldiers in HV areas and the strength of today's 45 000 soldiers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e149	Of course, the National Audit Office's report has made an impression on the government. That is why we have also implemented a number of measures both before the Riksrevision made its report, and after the 2015 Insurance Report. The HV size alone is not based on object protection. It's also based on the military problems. And we have different ways of securing objects, as we explained in the open hearing. The strength target is one number and one way to assess this. Another way to assess is whether the forces are funded, whether they are practicing and training. When Per Olaf Lundtägen's party was in government, in 2009, none of the area forces were trained – none. It was a serious situation. We've overrun the 62 pst target. exercise in the territorial structure, two years in advance. In addition, we increase the HV's budget by 16 pst. – 191 million. kr – in order to maintain equipment, practice, training and activity. That's what determines whether you can operate the object protection that HV and other parts of the Defense do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e156	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e161	The security of society is the primary task of politicians. Norway failed on 22 July. Norway cannot afford to fail again. The National Audit Office’s report shows that neither the police nor the defence together nor individually will be able to exercise adequate protection of important objects when a threat situation so warrants. It is very serious, and we can be happy that such an attack has not been attempted. This summary of the report will therefore be kept secret by the Minister of Defence. She has chosen to keep it secret. She doesn't want people at home to read this, understand this and understand this. Per-Kristian Foss, who has been a long-standing Right Representative and is now a National Auditor, says that the Council of State is trying to protect the Ministry and the Defence against criticism – that's why she chooses to keep this a secret. To quote him from DN: ‘The leadership of the Ministry of Defence and Defence use the Security Act to protect themselves from criticism.’ My question is, why does the State Council abuse the Security Act in order to protect itself from criticism?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e173	Of course, I totally disagree with the premise that the Security Act is being used to hide criticism. Rather, on the contrary, this has been discussed openly since the Riksrevision presented its report on 18 October last year. The size has all available information, all classified and unupgraded reports, and there is also an up-to-date summary that has been the basis for the public debate and the more than 600 media releases that have been there. That's a lot. Of course, it is not possible for a government to keep critical information secret for its own sake, but it is possible – and it is also required by the Security Act – to protect classified information that can harm the security of the state in various ways. Object safety is one side of the Safety Act. Information security is another aspect of the Safety Act. I believe that the representative Knut Arild Hareide in the newspaper today also describes this in a good and sensible way, namely that it is those who are sitting on the intelligence information that has been designated to do the assessments of what is being graduated and what is not graduated. I disagree completely with Abid Q. Raja's way of presenting the situation for preparedness, but I have explained that in the open hearing, and I have also explained that in other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e182	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e187	It's a very serious case that would have got much bigger headlines if it had had something a little more sexy an object protection. Because it is about the government not having done their job of ensuring security. Prime Minister Solberg said in the hearing that the reason why Stortinget did not get information about the weak object protection was that the government did not know how bad it was, because the Police Directorate reported to the Ministry of Justice that everything was in order in the field of justice. But an important dimension that is also hard to understand is that the Ministry of Defence is responsible for a good part of the objects. All sectoral ministries are responsible for the designation and classification of objects within their area of responsibility and the Ministry of Defence is responsible for a significant part. Why did the Ministry of Defence not better inform the Prime Minister and the Stortinget that one under its responsibility was not on the way to comply with the regulation on object protection in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e196	This has been the subject of several discussions in the government — natural enough because it is an important part of the preparedness process. It's a little difficult to explain the entire object security regime in one minute, but today it's like the defense is responsible for the military objects. All military objects have a form of basic protection. They are typically inside bases, behind fences, behind fuses, etc. For new projects, the basic assurance is incorporated as part of the design. Then it's like we're assisting the police in providing object security where the police are asking for it, and that's the case in approx. 20 pst. of the cases of the objects pointed out by the police. There they have asked in advance for assistance from the Defence. In addition, both civil and military key objects can be secured by military forces, but on the civil side, it is thus primarily the police who are responsible for their forces, and then the Defense comes and assists if, for example, something. should last for a long time or if the police experience that they do not have sufficient security forces to cope with a complex situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e201	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e207	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. The Progress Party decided at its national meeting to go in to criminalise the ritual circumcision of male children. It's made strong reactions, and I want to quote some of them. Ervin Kohn, head of the Mosaic religious community, said that if the decision were to be implemented, it would mean ‘prohibiting Jewish religious practices’. The U.D. of Israel regrets the decision and states that such a ban would make it difficult to live as a Jew in Norway. The leader of one of Europe's largest Jewish organisations goes even further and clearly calls the decision anti-Semitically. This clearly shows that the decisions of the Progress Party have neither respect for, knowledge nor understanding of freedom of belief. For a Jew, it's not an alternative not to circumcise his boy; for Jews are circumcision, because it's a central religious precept. At the same time, it is about identity formation, cultural affiliation and the freedom to practice their religion for an vulnerable minority. The Minister of Justice has previously expressed a lack of understanding of what faith means for people. In the last period, he took the initiative and proposed a ban on pampering religious symbols in public space — the ban on hijab or gaudy, larger crosses. At the time, the law department in what is now his own department assessed that this ban would be a problem in terms of human rights and that it could be contrary to religious freedom. That is why I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: Does he want to go along with what the Progress Party decided at its national meeting, namely to prosecute the ritual circumcision of boys?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e224	I think it's important to assume, first of all, that it's not my constitutional responsibility that we're discussing here. But I should like to say a little bit about the background to the policy of the Progress Party and what was adopted at the Country Meeting of the Progress Party. The Progress Party has had a different assessment from that of the government – and I stress that this is not government policy. These are the assessments of the Progress Party, and I support that assessment, which is about not imposing child intervention – that is what we are really talking about – which is conditional on religious belief, and which is not health-related at all. Then there must be no doubt that the Progress Party supports the Jews, has always supported the cause of the Jews and has been foremost in supporting Israel. It is still the policy of the Progress Party, but we have a different assessment when it comes to the intersection and what is actually an intervention in a child's sexual organ. Here one must respect that one can have opinions other than those expressed by the Christian People's Party. Yes, it is to a large extent right that the undersigned, as a party politician, have often participated in discussions about the use of religious symbols, in particular hijab, nikab and the like. But from there to say that those proposals have been contrary to human rights – we have actually received the opposite example, since the European Court of Human Rights judgment shows that it is actually possible to regulate that kind of practice. The party of progress has never been in doubt, and has been very clear that the use of nikab and hijab should be limited, and that religious symbols do not necessarily have a natural place in all rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e235	I thank you for the answer, although I have to say that I think it was a little confusing. As far as I know Judaism, and when I look at the statements that have come both from Israel and not least from the Mosaic religious community, the Minister of Justice actually forces Jews to leave Norway. That is why I think the matter is very serious. And it's not just a Christian People's Party that interprets it this way. Very well known, no other Western country or Western government party is going in to ban the ritual circumcision of male children. That is why I wonder how the Minister of Justice thinks that such a criminal order should be implemented in practice. How should it be investigated? How does he want to punish parents? Should they be prosecuted if they carry out the interception abroad? Wouldn't it just be a more dangerous intersection if it were implemented? That is the question of whether he believes that the Torah will change, or that the Jews will change their practice – that is what he wants to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e242	Let me first point out that the Minister of Justice has not intended to do anything with regard to the decision taken at the national meeting of the Progress Party. It is not the government's policy, nor is it the majority in the Grand Duchy. But let me stress the following: it is the policy of the Progress Party, and the Progress Party has been in favour of it at its national meeting. I have to say about the kind of arguments that the representative makes regarding the control of interference in a healthy sex organ, that the exact same arguments could be put forward when it comes to something called "circumcision," but that I call an abnormal intervention in the female sex organ, i.e. sexual mutilation. The exact same arguments could be used against it, and that should probably be the basis for reflection. The assessment of the Progress Party at the national meeting was that it is not natural to perform surgical interventions in a healthy gender organ.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e249	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Hans Fredrik Gruvan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e254	The Progress Party has recently taken more steps towards what can be seen as a more stringent line towards religious communities, by providing for more surveillance and economic strangulation. The decision of the Progress Party to prosecute the ritual circumcision of male children is perceived by many who are yet another step towards more control and surveillance. One of the reasons put forward as an argument for this Decision has been the provisions of the Children’s Convention, according to the head of the Health and Welfare Committee, Kari Kjønaas Kjos. Does the Minister of Justice agree with Mr Kjos that the ritual circumcision of boys according to Jewish tradition is contrary to the Children's Convention?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e261	I ask the representative to understand that it is difficult for me here and now to assess whether a single decision is within or outside of a convention. In that case, it must require a slightly longer investigation. But it may be true. I don't want to answer that right now. I think it is important to draw an understanding that political parties are making decisions at their national meetings, and that provides the basis for an important debate, which I think is absolutely necessary, on how far to respect the intervention of religion in the lives of young children, and thus also to set lasting marks that must be borne for the rest of your life. I think this is a timely debate. I think that's a reason for taking that discussion. But at the same time, it is important for me, as Minister of Justice, to stress that this is not the government's policy of this big period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e268	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e273	At first I think this case reflects three things. One is that the Progress Party is not a party that seeks to reunite politics to embrace many, they are seeking conflict. Secondly, I think that what the Council of State has now said means that what is adopted at the National Council of the Progress Party does not become a real policy. And then the Progress Party voted a few months ago for this to be Norwegian policy. All the representatives of the Progress Party voted in favour. Now the party has turned around and will not only limit it from the public service offer, but they will have a ban. We have previously had proposals that the Progress Party is unable to implement, but now the Progress Party is in government, and they must conduct responsible and enforceable policies. And just hypothetically, how does the Minister of Justice see that he is going to follow such a ban?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e278	This really shouldn't be very difficult. The Progress Party programme, which is the case for this majority period, was voted on in 2013. That's what applies to this big group, that's what applies to the policies of the Progress Party. What was adopted at the national meeting of the Progress Party is the programme of the Progress Party for the next major period. It provides guidance for what we go to elections in this autumn – what we as big-time candidates, each in this room, will go to elections on September 11, 2017. It is the programme adopted at the national meeting of the Progress Party. And this is certainly the representative quite well aware of. So it's not that this is about the Progress Party wanting to develop conflict in any way. On the contrary – I think it is bold that a political party is actually able and dares to raise a problem that most people tend to close their eyes to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e283	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e289	There's enough contempt for knowledge when the council compares male gender mutilation to female gender mutilation, which is barbarism. Comparing it with male circumcision is really a blow in the face of all the women who are exposed to this barbarity. When it comes to the main question, about male cross-section, I'm going to try to focus on it. To inform the Council of State, more than one third of the men in the world are circumcised. The NRK can report that in the United States is about 80 pst. men circumcised, irrespective of religion and ethnicity. In fact, American authorities want such a practice to be welcomed. The World Health Organisation recommends this form, especially in developing countries. It also reduces the incidence of sexually transmitted diseases – chlamydia by 82 pst, HIV by 60 pst. For Muslims, only to have mentioned it for the Advance Party, this is not necessary. It is not an obligation to be circumcised. For Jews, on the other hand, there is an obligation, eight days after birth, known as the British Mila, and Jews have said that this ban is being imposed, they will be forced to leave Norway. My question to the Council of State is: Why will the Progress Party force Jews out of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e296	This is going to be a strange argument. First, yes, I agree that the severity is very high, and that in no way can you compare the intervention we're talking about on a boy, with what's the sex mutilation of girls, which is undoubtedly a kind of practice that has to be stopped by all legal means. But what I did was not to compare the severity of the two. What I said, on the contrary, is that when you argue for the problems of proving, the problem of prosecution, you can use the exact same arguments. Then you talk about health control – the kind of issues that there has not been any willingness of the representative’s own party to introduce – to reveal, as I believe, a very important measure. But based on that we're comparing the severity of the two different ones, that's of course completely wrong. So it's not like the Progress Party has any issues with Judaism with regard to Israel. We stand behind the Jews.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e303	Let's go to the next main question. Try hard to fight Vedum. No, I think it's Marit Arnstad who's taking that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e308	Thank you for that, President. My question goes to the Minister of Defence. The government's long-term defence plan has aroused a lot of debate and frustration in parts of the defence. In the Army, the investments are postponed as a total increase as late as in 2015 was considered absolutely necessary. Homeland is being reduced by 7,000 soldiers. The protection of the marine environment is being laid down. And the Navy defense corvettes are abolished. In the long-term plan, the government uses large sums of money to build up capacity one place in order to build up the corresponding capacity somewhere else, without giving an increase in total fighting power. The closure of Andøya is an example of government breaking down both operational capacity and a community that has adapted to the needs of the Defence. The credibility of the long-term plan depends on the accuracy of the figures presented. The long-term plan states the following about the government's recommended closure of Andøya Aviation Station and the accumulation of activities at Evenes: ‘In total, an investment need of approximately 3.5 billion has been calculated. crowns for the collection of activities at Evenes.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e320	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e325	In Andøyposten, 21 April, the Ministry of Defence says that the cost is now 4.2 billion. kr. Can the Council of State clarify what is right? Is the total investment need 3.5 billion? kr or 4,2 brd. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e331	First of all, to the premise of the questioner: there is nothing in this long-term plan that is going in the direction of building down the defense. On the contrary, this government is building up the Defence – that is, the Army, and that is the Home Office – with historical increases in the budget and also large investments that we have ahead of us. With regard to the question of Andøya, the representative probably came to the conclusion that yesterday there was also news of additional funds for the conversion from the government. It's important to be able to transform the Andeya community. The majority of the population decided that we should have the power and have the bases for both forward-run combat aircraft operations and maritime patrol aircraft on Evenes. It's to ensure both the bases and the capacities in a good way. We are now conducting a concept investigation at Evenes, where a large degree of reuse forms the basis for the concepts under consideration. So in our opinion, there's nothing new in the number material that comes out, which means that this is going to be e.g. significantly different from that of the long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e339	The Council of State would like to try to answer the question. That's how the government has told the Stortinget that it will cost 3.5 billion. kr. The Ministry of Defence publicly confirms in the press that it will now cost 4.2 billion. kr, and Defence Building, a subsidiary of the Ministry, have also indicated in meeting Trom County Council that it can reach over 4.2 billion. NOK – that it can cost up to 5 billion. kr. The size had a unanimous remark in the setting of the long-term plan where one says: ‘If there are significant changes to the decision-making basis, the Committee takes the view that the government will return to the Grand Duchy in the context of the revised national budget in spring 2017 with an update.’;» First, the Council of State may state the correct figure and the Council of State may confirm that it will provide updated cost estimates for the Storting in the submission of revised expenditure if that is the case that costs have gone from EUR 3,5 billion. DKK to SEK 4.2 billion. kr. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e350	As we explained in the long-term plan, the issues of price on Evenes, and on Andøya for that purpose, are divided into several different segments. One is the base itself. The second is the question of air protection and protection. The third is personnel costs, and the fourth is operating costs. In the current calculations, there's nothing to suggest that the number that we took into account in the long-term plan has changed. It also means that there is no need for a review in the context of the revision. Then the assumption was that there would have been significant changes. As always on this type of major project, the government will of course come back to Stortinget if there is a need for updates, and we will also regularly update on large projects, such as: the development of Ørland.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e355	It opens for follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Force Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e360	We notice that the Council of State is not going to use numbers now. It's a familiar tactic when you have bad numbers to come with. In her own proposition to the Storting, it says: ‘In total, an investment need of approximately 3.5 billion has been calculated. crowns for the collection of activities at Evenes.» It's a quote from the government's proposition. Now six months have passed since that decision was taken in Stortinget. In the six months – when there is an interview with the Ministry of Defence now, the people of the Ministry of Defence say that now the total cost is 4.2 billion. NOK – the cost has increased by 25 million. DKK per week, over 100 million. kr per month, but the Council of State can't be clear and clear about what the figure is now. Then my question to the Council of State is, what's the number in three weeks, four months, one year? Can the Council of State guarantee that that figure was taken into account by the government, $3.5 billion? kr, is that the right number? Or is it the wrong number?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e374	Here it was also relatively much. I now have in two rounds black Battle force Vedum's party trap that there is therefore nothing in the number material we have per day that suggests that there are significant changes. This means that the figures in the long-term plan are still there. Now we're doing the concept selection investigation. It shall be completed during this year. It shall be based on external quality assurance, which is common to the type of large project, once it has been completed. It is, as I also had in my previous answer, of course, that if there were any changes, the government will come back to the Storting about it. We have e.g. See that, in the case of Ørland and the expansion adopted under the previous government, some of the costs have increased, for example: in relation to hedges, the hedging concepts are different, they have increased in view of the cost of the contractor. These are things that would have happened no matter where you had laid the base – whether it had been Ørland or Bodø.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e384	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e389	I also have a question about the follow-up of the long-term plan. One of the decisions that was made, which was not in the government's original proposal, was to continue the Coast Guard Command. It's a very important force, especially in the north, and there's been a lot of international participation. The size decided was to assess whether this capacity could be linked to other departments, including the Special Forces of the Defence. My question is, Is this work going on? When do we get this case to Stortinget? There is a great deal of interest in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e396	This is a work that has begun in the department. We are now drawing up the mandate to look at, as the representative says, the organisational link and also, for example, the organisation. consider things like localization and other things that belong naturally to this. I also think it is worth reminding that in the discussion about you, for example. shall submit to the Special Forces of the Defence Forces or, more precisely, to the Marine Hunter Command in this context, which has been discussed, account shall also be taken of the conditions associated with connecting so-called conventional departments with specialised power units. It has both advantages and disadvantages, which will then be assessed as a result. We'll get back to Stortinget when these assessments are done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e403	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e408	When we hear the signals that there may be relatively large exceedances – the Council of State also points out that it was also in so far as the location of a new fighter base on Ørland – and with so much uncertainty surrounding that project, it might have been natural to consider whether to postpone the process around Andeya. There is also uncertainty about air shields, which I think should also be able to cover Heggelia and the areas of inner Bardu, and not just Evenes. Could it have been an opportunity? Because with so much uncertainty as with the figures referred to here today, it indicates – for the time being – that there may be greater exceedances gradually, and then it may be possible that a breath in the ground would be okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e413	Now I have answered that question in several rounds. There is nothing in the figures we have today that indicates that there are significant changes, nor is it appropriate, as the representative says, ‘large exceedances’ or that there is uncertainty about air protection. Air protection is an essential part of securing a base. We can no longer operate bases that can only work in peacetime, but cannot be protected in a crisis situation. That's why we're just doing this power collection and building up air protection on Evenes, just the same way we do on Ørland, in order to protect the base. On the issue of cost increases in Ørland, we have explained them in several rounds to the Stortinget. This is due to conditions that are not related to the base choice itself, which would have occurred wherever the base was, but which are thus increased infrastructure costs, entrepreneurship costs, and not least because of a change in the safety policy situation, depending on changing the safety concept for the aircraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e420	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e425	This was a good-day-man-ax-chaff experience about Andeya. In the long-term plan, it's 3.5 billion. kr, which is the cost, and that is the total cost from there. The defense in the press, in Andøyposten, has gone out and said this is going to increase to 4.2 billion. kr. Then the minister says here that there is no knowledge she has gained. Does Andøyposten know more about the costs associated with Andøya than the Minister of Defence knows?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e430	The answer to the last question is that I don't think so. This is also not a good-day-man-axe drill. I've now got the same question four or five times. I've answered the same four or five times. But of course, the answer is not what the representative wants. There's nothing in the numbers that we have, which indicates that the calculations in the long-term plan are no longer valid. In my opinion, it's also important to remember that the background to doing this force collection, that we put the maritime patrol planes where we also decided, in the previous long-term plan, to put the advanced operating base for F-35, is that we should have a better chance to operate. We need better protection, and we need to be able to protect both the base and the capacity even in a crisis situation. Then it's important to gather power because it's very expensive to secure, and it's important that we spend the money and resources to be able to operate the planes we have. It is a crucial part of Norway's defence capabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e435	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e440	The question goes to the Minister of Justice. The data protection is under pressure from many sources. Technology developments increase the pressure both through great potential for the compilation of personal data we voluntarily provide, and through the collection of personal data without the knowledge or approval of the data subject. At the same time, the last decade's fight against terrorism has legitimised major private interference to citizens, and there are many examples of the fact that privacy is being weakened by gradual steps in the name of good intentions. Two weeks ago, we were able to read in the VG that the Minister of Justice had been in London to learn more about how the United Kingdom is monitoring its own people — one of the western countries that has gone the farthest in introducing interventional monitoring rules, and which, in the view of the Left, is a very bad example of follow-up. However, the Minister of Justice says that he will introduce mandatory storage of all Norwegian IP addresses for six months, and that he does not understand why anyone needs to hide the IP address. In practice, this means that the Minister of Justice goes in to store which websites all Norwegians visit for six months, including many others. It is in the Left's view a naive approach, as it is very simple for people who actually intend to do something criminal, to hide their tracks, while the privacy of ordinary citizens becomes dramatically weakened by such storage of IP addresses. I would like to site the representative Hoksrud, in Dagbladet on 4 May: "I very much disagree with Amundsen. This is about what society you want and what access to information you want the state to have, and for those who are concerned about the state being small, as FrP is, it is very worrying that someone wants to open up that kind of storage." ‘Some’ is, in this context, the Minister of Justice of the Progress Party. The question to the government council is therefore: why does he want to be inspired by the United Kingdom, one of the worst in the class when it comes to privacy, instead of listening to the wise objections from the Hoksrud party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e459	Now, I think my visit to London wasn't just in the way the representative refers to, but in general regarding cybersecurity, ICT crime and how to secure itself against it. It is correct that I have arranged for us to introduce an extended storage time for IP addresses. It has also adopted the National Assembly of the Progress Party, and we have a proposal for a representative to be discussed in the Storting on this very issue. When I've mentioned it, it's because Kripos and the "Dark Room" operation, several of those who work in the fight against child abuse, say that this is the tool, the tool, that the police need in their toolbox in order to take many who commit child abuse. When I then assess the relationship – that this is an effective tool to protect the weakest of the weakest in our society, namely the children – versus the fact that it is a very small intervention when we talk about privacy, it is not difficult to choose the children. That's what the Progress Party national meeting did this weekend, and it'll be important in the work further to stop child abuse, which I think as a society we have to take the goal of fighting. It's one of the most important games. If we can't protect the kids from abuse, we can just pack together, because then we don't do our job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e468	Thanks for the answer, which gave more emphasis to polemics than reality, because you're really not answering what's really the essence of this. Of course, I agree that we should protect our kids from abuse, listen to me. To believe that storing and giving access to the Internet and IP addresses of all common people will be able to defuse those who really have dishonest purposes – whether they are child abuse or against everyone – against the abuse it is against ordinary people and their use of the Internet, which is not illegal, that kind of question must have been reflected over and well answered by a Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e473	The President will recall that the statements are addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e478	I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e483	I can explain it, and I actually think it's important, because here there are many misunderstandings about what we're really talking about. The IP address is the phone number of your routers, your mobile phone when browsing the Internet, your iPad or to your computer at home. That's what we're talking about. It's nothing more intrusive than that. It's not about storing people's habits online, like Google and Facebook are already doing, and people don't seem to have that much trouble with. It's not about saving which pages you click on, it's not about intervening and saving data, metadata, at all. Only the address of the router, of the PC, must be stored. You're already doing it today. However, it is a question of extending the storage time so that when you have an indication of – a lack of reason to suspect – people who engage in child abuse, you should be able to connect the Internet address to a person. The problem today is that you are not able to do it properly, and that many offenders are therefore freed against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e490	There will be follow-up questions – first Ketil Kjeseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e495	Health information is legally classified as ‘sensitive personal data’, cf. Section 2 of the Act on Personal Information and Sorted as such under the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Council of State. In NOW 2015:13 on digital vulnerability, the challenges related to outsourcing and internationalisation are duly addressed. Health South-East RHF has entered into a contract with HP Enterprise, an American company, on allegedly ICT operations worth up to 7 billion. kr for the following years. HP is known for having hardware stored on boats floating outside the law of the country, and software in cloud computing, which is also poorly regulated both in each country and internationally. With sensitive personal data floating between them, there is a short way to a digital anarchy. So my question is, what does the Council of State do to ensure that sensitive personal data is not compromised?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e504	As the representative may be aware, we are now working on a major communication on ICT security to be presented before the summer, where we, among other things, are. looks at these kinds of issues. There is absolute reason to raise this issue. We also see it in other contexts in those cases where long supply chains are available to suppliers in other countries. We saw in the Broadnet case – what some call the "Emergency" case – that having long supply chains can be a safety issue. So I'm open to that issue, and I think we need to have some thorough discussions here about where those boundaries are going, how on the one hand we should be able to maintain good competition that provides efficiency and good services. But on the other hand, we depend on having safe, good, secure systems that protect Norwegian interests, but at the same time also protect the privacy of the individual citizen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e511	Jorod Asphjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e516	New technologies provide better conditions for preventing, investigating and resolving crime. At the same time, we know that this technological development often challenges important data protection considerations and that there may be a conflict between the need for new police methods and the need for privacy and legal certainty. Our job as elected representatives is to ensure balance, that privacy is always included in the assessment when we develop legislation to contribute to better prevention, crime prevention and increased social security. The Working Party considers that there is a need for a comprehensive review of the interests of data protection and that it can be ensured in the justice sector. My question to the Minister of Justice is therefore whether he agrees with the need for such a review and whether he will take the initiative before Stortinget takes a vacation in June 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e525	I have no problem seeing the problem raised by the representative. Yes, we have challenges, for example: in the crime scene. We see that crime is moving from the analogue to the digital space. Ordinary, traditional crime goes down, while the new criminal arena is the digital space. It gives us some challenges, it requires that we have better methods. The same thing applies to Defense, we see the same challenges there. And we're looking at it in a number of areas of society. So yes, it's clear that it's important that we have a principle approach to privacy, that we know where to draw these boundaries. I fully agree with the assessment that many people have, namely that you get straight into a situation where we just gradually move on, and then we don't see the way until we're very far, and then maybe we haven't quite seen the effect of what we've actually adopted. I think it's important that we have a comprehensive review and draw up these boundaries – on the one hand, that we maintain privacy in a good way, but at the same time we have effective instruments that we need in a society where the digital sphere is as present in our lives as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e533	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e538	I think the Minister of Justice has good judgment. It is extremely important that we constantly weigh privacy considerations on the proposals that are coming. For my own part and for the Minister of Justice, we opposed the Data Storage Directive because it was too intrusive. It was the storage of massive data. The question we're talking about now is completely different. At the time, in 2011, the Chief Data Protection Officer, Bjørn Erik Thon, said that this was a proposal he could support, namely to store the IP address for six months. It's because it's not about content, time and place, etc. It is not completely comparable, but no one wants anonymous cash cards anymore. You want a subscription attached to your phone number. The signs shall be attached to a person. Similarly, it is quite natural that IP addresses are also linked to a subscription. It can help against international crime, and as the Minister of Justice points out, when it comes to child abuse, it is very important. My question is really just to get the Minister of Justice to signal positivity: when can there be a proposal if the Stortinget now adopts the proposal of the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e549	I have already indicated in a letter to the Stortinget that I am in favour of that proposal for a representative. We're going to do what we can to be able to work fast. The police have asked for this tool for a long time. I don't see any reason why we're going to spend too long on it, but of course there are some investigations that need to be carried out, also for the sake of just privacy. It is difficult to imagine a proposition put before the Storting this year if the representative proposal for the representative of Ropstad is adopted in Stortinget before the summer. I see no reason for us to spend more time than necessary, but we have to do some thorough investigations. I would like to stress that it is also important to point out, as the representative Ropstad does – I share his opinions – that it is not a matter of the state storing these IP addresses. They are already stored on the server of the Internet service provider for up to 21 days. It's about exactly the same thing, just that you extend that storage time so that you have the opportunity to link a criminal act to a person.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e556	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e561	I'm not going to draw it too far, but I find it fascinating that Per Willy Amundsen strongly argues that it is necessary to monitor his IP address in order to protect children from abuse. I think the thing about assuming that people are innocent until the opposite is proven is what is promoted by Terje Breivik. But now let it go. Rather, let's look at what I think is too easily done by the government when it comes to storing information. Over the past week, we have been given an overview and clarity of the fact that there has been significant person-sensitive information on the way from Health South-East. There's nothing that belongs to the Council of State, but it shows how incredibly important it is to take care of sensitive information, and not to be naive in that it can be spread. That's why I ask, where is there an absolute limit to the state council for what kind of storage of sensitive information about people that the state should be able to accept?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e568	I think it's important to stress that none of us want a monitoring state. None of us want the state to sit and understand everything you had to do in your life. That's not what we're talking about either – that's not what it's about at all. It's about storing IP addresses on the server of the Internet service provider, which are done today for up to 21 days, and that you can extend it to maybe six months, for example. It is only a matter of direct indication of serious crime, such as crime. child abuse, of which there are too many cases, and of which we have to fight, goes in, asks for the address of the Internet service provider, gets it out, can link it to a person — and thus also prosecute and release children who may be subjected to sexual assault. That's what we're talking about. We're not talking about storing information, we're not talking about storing metadata, we're not talking about intervening in people's lives. I would also be opposed to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e575	Geir Inge Lien - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e580	In a democratic society, there must be very high thresholds for collecting and storing information about an unlimited number of people who are not suspected of having committed crime. In this case, not least privacy is central. Privacy is an important part of the legal framework. So we just have to store the information that is necessary. My question to the State Council is: The party to the State Council, the Progress Party, was strongly opposed to the introduction of the Data Storage Directive in Norway, among others. because it would result in the storage of IP addresses for six months. Can the Council of State do something for what kind of new elements have emerged since then?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e587	The Data Storage Directive was something quite different from what we are talking about here. It's very important for me to stress it. The Data Storage Directive and the legal preparations made – insofar as decided not to be implemented by the Storting – resulted in the storage of metadata. It's something completely different. Here we talk about storing phone numbers for your computer with the Internet service provider, not with the state. And that's not data, there's connections between the server and the individual computer. The reason why this is necessary is that IP addresses are constantly changing. They do that for technical reasons. You don't have the same constant IP address. It prevents the detection of serious crime, abuse of children. And that's a little bit intrusive. Then I think that as a society we have to be able to make that balance, and then we do it to the best of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e594	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e599	I have a question for the so far most modest State Council of Question Time, and it's about the railway reform. That is the following: the government’s original plan was to tender the first train sections in the competitive phase of trains on 3 February 2017. In December 2016, this was not achieved. That was the first warning that the government would fail in its outsourcing project. Last week the government announced that the competitive base of the companies that have been designated by the department but have not been published would now be published in spring, but are now exposed to the harvest. Consequently, the distribution of the basis of competition for the southern package of traffic is subject to a minimum of six months. The tender will not be awarded before summer 2018 and traffic starts are planned in June 2019. This means that there will be no obligation to tender on Sørlandsbanen, Jærbanen and Arendalsbanen until after the fall in September. Other sections of track have yet to be launched. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have consistently opposed this most controversial part of the rail reform, namely the partying of the NSB and the competitive outsourcing of passenger traffic. Can the State Council confirm in Stortinget that if there were to be a majority government of SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre after the election, we can stop the competitive outsourcing of NSB's passenger traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e609	What another government will do, I won't consider, but I don't think it would be smart, anyway. But what's important here is that SV should take a look at what's actually happening with the Norwegian railway now. Now it's a big bet, which means we're getting record numbers in terms of the number of passengers. The railway has a better reputation now than when SV crashed. It's only used in 7 billion years. kr more on the railway than SV was able to achieve when they were driving. The most important thing that happens is actually to improve the infrastructure, so that people can start trusting in the railway, that things work, that the switches of track are in order, and that the overhead line is in order. In comparison, in 2010, when the Railway Agency presented a report saying that the railway could collapse with what happened then, the response from the then Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa was that this is serious, but that one cannot promise more money. Looking at the appropriations allocated to the Railway Agency in the following years for maintenance, there was a decrease from 2010 to 2011, a new decrease to 2012, a new decrease to 2013. So despite the warnings about collapse, the response from the red-green ones was to cut in maintenance. It wasn't very responsible. Therefore, the most important thing we do now is to increase the appropriations and actually prioritize maintenance in those appropriations. The second thing we have done is to improve the organisation and make the responsibility more clear. By 3 May at the latest, we had a sign that the property of the railway was collected in one place, where both ROM Property and Bane NOR – or the former property of the railway works – entered the same administration. One sees it possible to save a triple billion on the annual in follow-up and maintenance. That's the other one. The third part is competition. It is to ensure that those who are most suitable for providing services – whether it is driving a train or operating maintenance – do so. There is no SV unknown, it was opened for competition on goods under SV. We also want to continue what was done at Gjøvikbanen, which SV also lived well with, but I see that SV now has a different position than they had when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e624	I tried to look very well and believe that I perceived a yes at the front of the first two sentences, and that it is possible for us to stop the competition. Otherwise, I think it's all right to remember that if the Council of State had got what he wanted, the railway operation would have been more than halved compared to what the Stortinget has decided, and that SV throughout this period has had higher appropriations for railway than the Council of State has proposed and been on, and has constantly invested more on the railway. The point is this: if it is a yes, right-wing politician Linda C. Hofstad Helleland stated in a legendary interview in World Gang in September 2014 that her goal was to squish so much toothpaste out of the tube that the Workers' Party did not put it back. Is the Council of State now bitter because a Right Party government does not succeed in implementing the railway launch before the election and therefore does not have the toothpaste squandered entirely out of the tube?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e631	I think it's a little bit weird input of SV. The goal is to get the best possible railway, and I think everyone who follows the results on the railway so far, is to say, you know what? There is no need to go back to red-green policy in this area, for there is more bet, there is better organisation, more train sets are ordered now, there are several departures from Oslo S, and the trains are more on track. Why in all days would a wish be the results that SV could refer to? The question originally raised by the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is really the same – reworded – as this: Will a government be able to govern as it pleases? That SV at all goes to elections and thinks they won't be able to influence anything if they get government power, but ask today's government if there's any possibility for it – well, our approach to sitting in government is that we should actually rule. That's why we've started a number of processes that the previous government let lie, just because we think we can control, and we show that we can control. That the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is unsure whether he can do anything if he comes into government, does not surprise me when I look at the results they achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e638	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e643	We in SV thank you for the answer. In the government's eagerness to prevent NSB from obtaining competitive advantage in supply, the government has deprived the NSB of the ownership of the train equipment. It may be a little difficult for people to understand why it should be so that competitors can choose between own material or the country's material, while the NSB does not have a choice. This means that the NSB is flipped. Why has it been so important for the government to cut the NSB? Hasn't the point been to create competition on equal terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e650	Yes, and the representative from SV is completely wrong. I think it's a little strange to meet SV – and to the extent that the red-green parties – for repeated debates on the rail reform with criticism from the red-greens about the rail reform, when they obviously discuss a completely different reform from what we're doing. One has to try to deal with what the government actually decides. Then you can agree or disagree with it. I see many reasons to agree with what the government does, simply because it makes sense. It's about creating a better railway. The infrastructure is now better than when SV ran. During the eight years SV crashed, the railway infrastructure fell annually. Now you maintain it so that it gets better every year. Most people should be happy about that. This means, among other things: that CargoNet can say: now we finally get a rise in the volume of goods on the railway, because the customers trust us. While the decline was quite great during SV's reign. We have accumulated some ownership that had previously spread. It also applies to the train sets, but the NSB will be treated equally with all others. The NSB shall have no disadvantages in this competition. We're going to make sure they compete on equal terms, as opposed to what SV now claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e657	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e662	The councils probably think my question is strange too, as most of the questions that are asked to the government seem to be. The Council of State just said that the NSB should not have any competitive disadvantage in the market that the Council of State is now in the process of creating. He is concerned that the NSB should be able to compete with private companies in order to be allowed to offer an offer to travellers. It is therefore essential that the framework conditions of the NSB are clarified and that they know the conditions under which they will compete. Since last autumn, there has been a debate on the pension obligations and pension entitlements of NSB employees. It has not been clarified. So my question to the Council of State is, has the Council of State now been clarified and given the NSB clarification of what assumptions they are going to compete with, and what pension obligations do they actually have? And if he hasn't, when can the NSB get such a clarification?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e669	That clarification comes very, very quickly, simply because we're presenting a document to Stortinget in a very short time. The claim about wing clipping was asked questions about SV. Then it's quite natural that I indicated that no, they don't get any disadvantages in this competition. On the contrary, I believe that NSB’s knowledge of the Norwegian market means that they have a competitive advantage compared to others. But it's a little strange to hear red-green politicians repeatedly raise this issue, as if competition is something completely new in the transport sector, when one has in red-green rungs competition on the bus, one has it on speedboat, one has it on ferries, one has it on aircraft, and one even had it on the Gjøvik track under red-green government, one actually opened up to competition on freight transport under red-green government. Does it mean, when the Workers' Party is so critical of competition for passenger transport, that they are against competition anywhere else? What's so very different about trains? I want the best possible offer to the travellers and a good company that runs it. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e678	Janne Sjelmo Nordås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e683	The railway reform has now led to several managers, increased red tape, increased use of consultants, increased costs and been a huge time thief. In retrospect, the Council of State does not see that it would have been better to spend the money on e.g. maintenance on the railway instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e689	Well, and if you look at the accounts, we've actually doubled the maintenance effort on the railway compared to when the Senter party ran this country. For eight years, the Central Party ruled the Ministry of Transport, and for eight years, the railway expired. Now we've been running for almost four years, and we've increased maintenance so much that the maturity now decreases. When the Senterpartie took over the government offices in 2005, the total maturity on the railway was 9,5 billion. kr. In the budget submitted by Stoltenberg and the Center Party in 2014, the overall maintenance allowance would be €18.4 billion. kr, approx. - Almost a double. So we have nothing to be ashamed of in that area. Looking at the use of consultants in the Railway Agency, it was twice as high in the years 2011–2013 as it has been in the years 2014–2016. So we've halved the consulting as well. In the previous eight years, a single reform was not carried out on the railway, despite being told that the railway could collapse. Under our government, we have carried out a reform, while at the same time reducing the use of consultants, while at the same time increasing maintenance, and at the same time expanding new sections. It shows that it is possible to do things differently from what the previous government did, and with good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e698	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e703	My question goes to the Minister of Justice and Security. After 22 July, we received an undefiled report from the 22nd of July with recommendations to implement several actions it thought Norway needed to get better preparedness, including some critical response resources, so that we would be better equipped in the future. Well, the future is here now. It's been six years since 2011. Something has become better, but a lot remains, for example. the major response investments remain to be requested by the 22 July Commission. In particular, the Commission highlighted three points when it spoke of critical response resources in which Norway should invest. None of them are in place so far. Emergency centre. The government has talked a lot about Alna, and that they could not build there, but had to find another plot. They've spent almost four years finding another blank. The status is that the government has not put in place any emergency services, but is arguing with landowners. It has been legal food, and it is still not clear when we can expect an emergency room to be in place. Helicopters. The bill will not be paid by this government. Investments are staggered year after year. ICT in the police. The Commission said a lot about the need to do something with, among other things: The ICT systems of the police. More money is needed to make the necessary investments. This isn't done. The summary is status: not delivered and not followed up. My question to the Minister is as follows: When will the Emergency Response Centre be finished? When will the helicopters be in place? And when will the necessary investment come to ICT in the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e724	I find it strange to hear the attempt of the Workers' Party to describe the preparedness in Norway. There are a lot of false representations that really amaze me, but there's also a direct error of the story you're basing on. Let's take the example of the emergency center. The previous government didn't do home homework. You really couldn't see the difference between the gross and the net. So you're essentially adding too little area. With Alna, who was their alternative, a created noise problem and beyond could have a number of factors – an inappropriate place to set up a national emergency centre. So we had to roll back and start over. I can report that we are on track with regard to the establishment of the National Emergency Response Centre. We'll get it in place, we'll deliver on time, and we'll also deliver on content. It is also clear, if you followed the news yesterday, that in the context of the revised national budget, we are committed to buying not two, but three helicopters with transport capacity for the police. In many ways, this is a revolution, a completely different situation, in order to deliver good preparedness for the country. Thus, in terms of police infrastructure, ICT infrastructure, significant investments have been made. It is a continuous work, which this government has taken up, which was not satisfied and considered important during the previous government, and which has expired. What the previous government didn't do in its period, in its eight years, is deliver this government, and we've never had a better preparedness than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e733	Now the blue-blue government has been sitting for four years. One of my questions was as follows: When can we expect an emergency centre to be in place? Now four years have passed, and this government should take responsibility for that. It's also taken four years to put these helicopters in place. Nor does the Council of State respond when we can expect an investment plan where it is set up. As far as the last question is concerned, you promise investment in ICT. When can we expect money to be made available to do this with regard to the requirements and needs that the police are calling for? None of these three questions answered the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e738	ICT investment is ongoing. We've spent a significant number of millions on this over this period of government, and more will come after all the sunmarks. There is a high priority, and we are combining what has been a separate eye in the ICT of the police, namely that different systems and systems have not spoken to each other on a national basis. This government is doing something about it. But when you have ICT systems that have their origins back to the 1980s, actually at the end of the 1970s, it goes without saying that we have a great job to do. But we're in the process, we're delivering on it, and it's given priority. This also applies to all the other measures to which the representative refers. We had to start over because the previous government didn't do their homework at the emergency center. Helicopters shall be in place by 2019 at the latest.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e745	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e750	It's a little long to blame for those who've been before. We have received a demonstration of this from the Minister of Defence today, and now also from the Minister of Justice and Defence. But what the Riksrevision says about the lack of cooperation in the field of object protection is clear. Here the government has to take responsibility. I understand that the ministries want to exempt some public information for the sake of national security, but if the changes are made to hide criticism, it is very serious. My question is: does the Minister of Justice and Security agree with the Minister of Defence's decision to keep the summary of the Riksrevision report secret, and has the Prime Minister been involved in the assessment of this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e757	Once again, I experience that you have a demonstration in the production of a situation that is becoming extremely wrong. You talk about secrecy, you talk about it as if it's a political assessment to omit information from the public, and that it's been put into practice. This Chamber has adopted a Security Act and, through it, expects the Government to deal with it. The government has done the same. The professional assessments made by the Ministry of Defence are precisely professional assessments that suggest that it would be detrimental to the security of the state if more detail, as we talked about here, were to reach the media. It's a professional assessment. It's about security, and there's no political assessment at all. I think most people see that you would like to have released rounds like this. It does not help to inform the matter of creating an impression of a conscious political secret. That's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e764	The National Auditor has a different version of the case than the Minister of Justice here explains. But my question is quite specific. This is ‘a professional assessment’. So you push the decision away. But it is the politicians who are ultimately responsible for the decisions in their own department. I asked the Minister for Justice and Security a clear question: Does he agree with the Minister for Defence's decision not to publish this summary?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e769	So there are information sites that make these assessments. That is clearly stated in the Security Act. It is quite natural for me, as Minister of Justice, to deal with the professional assessments made in the Ministry of Defence. That's what this is about. It is not at all a question of keeping information secret of political desires. There's no need to do that at all. The public debate and the uprising that the opposition has managed to make on this matter should show that there is no interest in it. What you do is you create the impression that something is more serious than it really is. The reason why documents have been graduated is the security of the state. Then I would really like the opposition to be a little more responsive and a little bit more understanding to actually make those assessments, that there is a reason for that, and that it is about security.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e775	Geir Inge Lien - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e780	Recently discovered the Riksvision in a report is largely missing when it comes to object protection procedures. The former state council pointed out that the POD's reporting on the condition of object protection had been incorrect. My question to the Council of State is: What concrete action has the Council of State taken or will it take to prevent us from getting back into the same situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e785	As I have explained in an open consultation with the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and which has also emerged in many rounds of public vocabulary, I have been very clear that today – in 2017 – the situation is different from the one that the Riksrevision report used, which dates back to 2015. We have come a lot further to put in place a plank for object protection. We have also gone further in the ongoing work of creating permanent basic protection. But it's also an economic issue where we gradually and steadily improve the situation. But we will never end up there – and I believe that both the undersigned and the Minister of Defence have been clear – that we are putting the end point and saying: now we are finished with the object-proof, now the readiness is good enough. It's a continuous work. It's going on all the time, but the situation is different today than it was in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e790	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're moving on to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e804	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 11, from the representative Freddy de Ruiter to the Minister of Knowledge, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 12 and 13 from the representatives of Ruth Grung and Else-May Botten, respectively, to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Health and Care on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has left. Question 14, from Hege Haukeland Liadal to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e823	‘In Eastfold, the SSB figures in March show that there are now 7,700 children growing up in poverty. That's an increase of 14.1 pst. of the children in the county, with a national average of 10 pst. There's an increase of 500 children. From 2013 to 2017, the nursery price, the electricity charge, the level of tolls and the prices of petrol and diesel have increased, which particularly affects those with the lowest income, while the 50 richest so far have averaged over SEK 20 million each in tax cuts. Differences between people are increasing. Why does the Council of State think this is fair?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e830	Since this government took over in 2013, a number of measures to combat child poverty have been introduced. Increased participation in the labour market is the main means of preventing long-term low income and increasing income in the low income groups. In Eastfold, there is a higher proportion of children living in non-professional households than the national average. The government has stepped up its efforts in the 2017 budget to get more people working. The number of children in low-income families is increasing mainly as a result of a high level of immigration-driven population growth. More than half of children in the low-income group have a migrant background. Eastfold has a higher proportion of children with a migrant background than on a national basis. Many immigrants have low skills, weak basic skills or difficulties in obtaining recognition of their skills in the Norwegian labour market. Therefore, the government prioritises labour rights in the introduction programme and Norwegian training. A fast track is established into the labour market for refugees with requested skills. The government wants more young people to get into work and activity more quickly, and launches a youth effort to increase the follow-up of young unemployed people. From 1 January of this year, an activity obligation has been introduced for social assistance recipients under 30 years of age. The lack of secondary education increases the risk of falling out of work at an early age. The government emphasises early efforts and measures to increase the implementation of higher education. The primary education of high school students is targeted at pupils from families with a weak economy. A new two-year training course has been introduced by Nav. The Government introduces a lifelong right to secondary education. The provision of training for adults with poor basic skills has been reinforced. The government has put forward a strategy against child poverty. The strategy includes 64 measures to reduce the negative impact of growing up in low-income families and targeted prevention measures. That's the first strategy of its kind. We're going to take an extra responsibility to secure the social security network for children in poor families. Children shall not be loaded for the situation of their parents. The government has introduced more reasonable childcare facilities for families with low income and free core time in kindergarten for all children of low income families from their three years of age. The free part-time space test on the SFO has been extended. The National Disability Grant Scheme has been significantly strengthened. More children and young people get to take part in leisure activities and get holiday experiences. The government has put forward a proposal for child protection reform. Family protection services are strengthened. Health and school health services are strengthened. The follow-up grant scheme for children of mentally ill and children of drug users has been strengthened. We have put forward a national strategy for housing-social work. Housing aid has been increased for families with children and other large households, and the framework for housing grants has been increased. Overall, government policies make a significant effort towards those with the lowest income. We need to ensure a better everyday life for children and young people growing up in poor families.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e859	It's nice to hear about all the measures, but we see that it's not going the right way. I also record that the Council of State mentions the immigrant families, but then it should be noted that the SSB says that even in families with no immigrant background, there are increasing numbers of poor children. Child poverty is not very much about social distress or lack of the necessary consumer goods, but it is a lot about exclusion and exclusion when you experience not being able to participate in what others can participate in. The Progress Party and the Right have cut the social benefits into chronically ill, disabled and disabled people. Does the Minister of Finance think that these parents will be better able to take care of their children when they get such cuts, while Norway's 50 richest runs off with millions of dollars each in tax cuts with greetings The Advance Party and the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e868	Again, the faulty claims made by the Workers' Party regarding tax policy come to this government. It is true that the largest amount of money spent by the government on tax reductions has gone to ordinary households. An average family has received NOK 8 000 in tax bills during these years, so it is wrong when the Workers' Party claims on repeated occasions that we have spent the large amount of money giving tax reliefs to the rich. That's just not right. We have spent the large amount of money, most of the space for action during this period, on things other than tax reduction — to strengthen health services, care services, education, transport and local economy. I refer to what I said in my first answer: Many of the measures that the government has provided, such as action against child poverty, are good measures that have been appreciated and that are about reducing exclusion and exclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e873	The biggest cuts in taxes have not gone to ordinary people. It's gone to Norway's richest. That's the way it is. To the municipal economy: In the Minister of Finance's own survey of the municipal economy, we read that 10 out of 18 municipalities in Eastfold are growing in 2017 during the country's growth, i.e. that the majority is less economically able to perform their tasks on behalf of the population – Marker kommune 1,6 pst. growth, Hobøl municipality 1,7 pst. growth, Rakkestad municipality 1,7 pst. growth, Rygge municipality 2 pst. growth, to mention some of the low-performing Eastfold municipalities. How does the Minister of Finance think that these municipalities will be better able to help families with children out of poverty when the government initially provides a budget for 10 out of 18 Eastfold municipalities? Does the Minister of Finance think this is fair distribution against the tax cuts of those in Norway with the most private assets?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e882	Now the representative of Lauvås has to decide what he is to criticize. In the introduction to this issue, the representative repeatedly repeated that there has been growth in the economy also to the Østfold municipalities, but less growth than elsewhere. So overall, the local economy has strengthened every year during this government. We see from the accounts for the municipalities that things are going well now. Several municipalities are settled with significant profits. In spite of this, many Labour Party-driven municipalities see that they have a good profit, a liberal economy, yet they choose to impose increased taxes on property. Maybe you can't say that's basic social.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e890	My question goes to the Minister of Finance: ‘If the party programme of the Progress Party was implemented, Norwegian municipalities would lose over 20 billion. SEK in income each year. It would have dramatic consequences for people in North Norway. Why will the Council of State, which is also the party leader of the Advance Party, cut off in school and care for the elderly to give billions of dollars in tax cuts to the richest of the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e899	Municipalities have several different tax incomes. Reductions in the level of taxation usually compensate municipalities. I would therefore like to believe that this is the property tax that Mr Juvik refers to. The representative Juvik manufactures it to remove the property tax as a tax bill to the rich. I think that is wrong. The property tax affects ordinary people – families with young children, the elderly and the young. We've seen a lot of examples of that in the last few months. The government wants people to keep more of their own income. That's why we've reduced taxes by about 21 billion. kr. Wide tax credits make it more profitable to work and create new jobs in Norway. But the big money has gone to secure the well-being of this government. Let's do that, for example. by strengthening the income of municipalities. The free income of municipalities has increased on average by 2.4 pst. since the government joined in 2013. It has facilitated a strengthening of the service provision throughout the country, including in North Norway. The government has in no way cut senior care and school, as the representative claims. On the contrary, we have raised the elderly and strengthened school education. A rise in early school effort is one of the government's important priorities. In the current year's budget, 1.3 billion is granted. kr to several teachers from 1 to 4. steps. All students should be able to expect to meet teachers with depression in the subject in which they teach. Compared to 2013, we have more than tripled the investment in further training of teachers, to 1.3 billion. krones. In 2017, 6,000 teachers were offered further training. Under this government we also see a change of pace in the care of the elderly. The appropriations for care services have increased by 1.5 billion. kr during this period. Now the state takes a greater responsibility for the development of nursing homes, the state now takes half of the bill. This has led the municipalities to expand more. We have arranged for the renewal and construction of more than 10,000 care facilities. Overall, we strengthen care for the elderly, at a time when there are more elderly people, and where the need for care services will increase. The government has prioritised the big money to ensure the well-being of most people. At the same time, we are strengthening the local economy and reducing taxes and charges for people and businesses. So that's how we take Norway safely through the long-term transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e914	In spite of the list of the Finance Minister, the proposal contained in the Progress Party's programme to cut 11.4 billion is that. NOK in the property tax and NOK 10,5 billion. kr in the property tax, it will amount to over 22 billion. NOK for the municipalities. Based on what's said, that means that the Progress Party will compensate these 22 billion. kr for the municipalities? Despite the growth the Council of State is trying to refer to, and the showdown she's referring to, it's like these municipalities don't take this property tax on skates. It is in order to provide well-being and offers to the inhabitants that one feels compelled and has to collect this property tax, regardless of the party political stance. The question is very interesting: how to deal with, with an action room of 6-7 billion. NOK, to cover the 22 billion. kr with the proposals of the Progress Party, if you want to compensate the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e921	So what Juvik calls a show list is a fact. These are measures implemented by this government to strengthen well-being throughout the country. We have therefore implemented a wide range of measures that strengthen the rate of expansion of care for the elderly, and the Workers' Party has nothing to boast about. When the 2013 election was a fact, the Workers' Party admitted that they had not delivered to the care of the elderly. But the government has given priority to care for the elderly because it's the right area to bet on. The representative Juvik would like to ask the Minister of Finance about the recently adopted programme of the Progress Party for the next four years. That doesn't make any sense. There is nothing in this government's platform about property taxes in the current period. But I still believe that the representative has a crazy approach to this. First, property tax is not about tax relief to the rich. It strikes unsocially, and it affects particularly those who have poor finances.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e930	It is interesting to hear that the Progress Party programme does not have any meaning for finance – it does. What is clear, at least, is that the Workers' Party in all its alternative budgets during this period had more to the municipalities than the government. This Minister of Finance has also cut property taxes on hydropower for municipalities, with almost 400 million. In 2017, she said in December that she would not be able to do anything about this before Christmas, but would come back to it. I can't see that it's yet settled in, and it's starting to hurry if you're not going to get 400 million too. SEK in tax cuts on property in 2018. Estimates of the values of the hydroelectric power plants, which received a dramatic change from 2016 to 2017, amount to almost 400 million. kr. With the information we have now, it will be at least the same amount in 2018 if this is not corrected, and Stortinget has said that this should be corrected. When will the Minister of Finance fix this, when can we expect this to be clarified? It is important for municipalities to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e939	Firstly, I did not say that the Progress Party programme has nothing to do with finance; I said that it was a programme adopted for the next four years, not for the current growth period. That's what I said. The government has announced that we will come back to the Storting with assessments related to property taxes and hydropower plants, and it is still on the table. We're going to do that. But I still think that the representative Juviks – let's say – about caring for the municipalities in terms of property tax – is a little special. I'm more concerned with the inhabitants. It has been raised beyond doubt that much of the unsocial property tax introduced in many Workers' Party-driven municipalities now affects ordinary people with a strained family economy – so it can. If that's the way the Workers' Party argues when they talk about taxes to the rich, I understand why the Workers' Party talks about taxes to the rich, if they also believe that property taxes are.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e948	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e956	‘In 2016, the Municipality of Hedmark has been informed by the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation that a new practice for the allocation of discretionary funds has been established following natural damage in the context of an application for beauties to cover damage to county roads. The new practice implies that compensation only becomes applicable when a county municipality has experienced exceptional costs of at least DKK 250 per year. the population. The Council of State therefore considers that the county authorities must at all times have a natural damage buffer equivalent to up to NOK 250 per year. is it a resident?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e963	Municipalities and county councils that have incurred exceptional expenditure after natural damage may receive partial compensation through the discretionary means of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. In principle, it is the responsibility of the municipality and the county to ensure good maintenance and satisfactory standards of the municipal infrastructure, so that the damage is minimised when extreme weather or similar occurs. However, in the event of an accident, no municipality or county municipality shall be left standing alone at high costs after flooding and storm. The municipality proposal for 2016 provided for the need for discretionary means after natural damage to be determined on a case-by-case basis. Since 2015, the Ministry has therefore assessed the applications submitted by the county councils with discretion, including the size of the total cost per resident. The Ministry has established a practice of refusing applications from counties that are less than SEK 250 per capita, which is the established limit for municipalities to apply for part of the costs incurred. The Ministry will propose, in the Municipal Proposition for 2018 presented tomorrow, that the guidelines for the assessment of applications for county municipalities be elaborated in accordance with established practice. The representative of Juliusus asks whether county municipalities must always have a natural damage buffer equal to 250 kroner per capita. A limit of 250 kroner per capita in order to be able to apply for grants corresponds to the limit for municipalities to apply for funds. The counties are large organisations and should therefore have a financial space to cover unforeseen costs of a certain extent. I would also like to remind you that beauty resources are being set aside from the county councils' overall framework grant, and that it is therefore natural that there is a certain threshold for the individual county council in order to receive a subsidy from this framework. I want the most predictability and equal treatment of county councils, and will ensure that disproportionate expenditure following natural damage is compensated. This will be supported by a defined ceiling for the possibility of applying for grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e974	We know that floods and natural damage will be an increasing challenge in the years to come. For example, Hedmark County was given to the municipality of Hedmark. recently presented its NVE climate profile that confirms it – more rainfall, increased risk of flooding and slippage. If – in order to use Hedmark as an example still – one cannot count on any kind of compensation for costs up to NOK 250 per capita, this means that Hedmark must have at any time close to SEK 50 million. kr standing in a flood buffer. In that case, it will constitute a narrow seventh of the entire county's budget for the operation and maintenance of county roads. There's sums like zeros out, and then there, all of that that's come from increasing county roads over the period so far. In 2016-2017, the county had to make up 27 million. kr itself to cover damage as no grant was received from the Ministry. It is money that had to be taken from other planned county road projects, to push them out in time. How will it be that the government with a pen stroke obliges Hedmark County to take down the county road maintenance with a seventh?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e981	Now it's not like there are special rules for Hedmark. We have the same rules for all counties, and we now set the same limits for the counties that we have for the municipalities. Then it is that municipalities and county councils have had a good economic development during this government. Hedmark County has a net operating surplus in 2015 of 271 million. kr, and in 2016 a net operating surplus of 228 million. kr or 7,4 pst. This means that the county councils with good government framework and good financial management themselves have set up a buffer to allow unforeseen expenditure to be taken. The county councils are responsible for maintenance and ensure that the infrastructure is so good that the damage is minimised.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e986	Yes, Hedmark is an example of the fact that through this change of practice, all county municipalities have to count on increased expenditure on their own in the coming years. When Hedmark was struck last time by floods in 2012, the county municipality received compensation and the then municipal minister from the previous government explained to the Stortinget a practice in which the county municipalities were compensated for half of the costs up to NOK 250 per capita and all over that limit. Now the practice has changed, and I understand that there is something more in the municipal proposition tomorrow that confirms that practice. This makes one wonder how the government intends to make municipalities and county municipalities able to deal with the increasing challenge of extreme violence, floods and subsequent damage to, among other things. highways.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e991	That's a good and important question. This is about where municipalities plan to build dwellings and where they plan to build infrastructure. We contribute by developing new digital elevation models, which provide more accurate knowledge of which areas are safe and which are more vulnerable, and we also provide good guidance to municipalities and counties in developing their spatial plans. This is important as a basic premise and tool from the state. I also agree, of course, that the State should set up when municipalities or county municipalities are hit by storms, floods and accidents and get unforeseen large expenses. I assume that the representative also agrees that it must be a proponent, so what we are really discussing is how much that proponent should be. We believe that what we now get in place for the county councils, in line with what is for the municipalities, is the right level to put on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e999	‘For Objection, the fees have increased by more than 50 pst. on some routes in the last few years. The government has made new offers on the FOT routes in North Norway, which has given lower air services for many. The result for the population and business in North Norway is that there are fewer conditions for creating values and less attractive living in the region. Differences between parts of Norway are increasing. What will the Council of State do to correct the negative consequences of a poorer flight offer in North Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1006	I'm very busy having a good flight offer throughout the country, including North Norway. That's why I just traveled to 19 different airports both in the West and in North Norway to get input and views from businesses, airport managers, rapporteurs and others. The working party gives the impression that there is a connection between the flight offer in total in Norway and the FOT route offer. That's not right. Many of the FOT routes we have issued have had the same minimum requirements as under the Government of the Workers' Party. It's a little bit strange to say that it's a little bit worse, when it's actually an extension. We have been committed to ensuring that it is attractive for actors to create new routes and that it is attractive to operate. That's why we've invested a lot in the aircraft system we have. We're building new terminals, we're renewing runways, and we're going to do more of that. We also make it attractive for new airlines to operate. FlyViking is one of the companies that is now offensive, especially in North Norway. There is evidence that one sees it as attractive to provide air services in Norway, as opposed to the signal the Workers' Party is trying to give, namely that everything is black and search. In the context of the FOT route offer, which means that the State enters and buys an offer that the market itself does not deliver, sets a minimum requirement. Sometimes airlines also deliver exactly the minimum required by the State. They often deliver a little bit more, because they get a foundation at the bottom to drive paths. We also see that on the FOT routes here. However, in some places, Onøe has reduced levels compared to the past; elsewhere, they have increased levels compared to the past. In many places they have set up new direct routes, which make you get a better deal, and in some places they have larger planes. I think it's a little early yet, when we're only in May, to be able to assess the consequences of how the aviation offer will be in the next few years, based on one month. But everything suggests that even in North Norway, a few more airlines and a greater variety of routes than one had. There are things that indicate that passenger numbers are rising in many places. It's also a sign that you've got routes that are right. I experienced myself when we flew from Rørvik and Namsos, that the most popular departures have for small planes, that is, that people are not allowed to join, and even it was a rapporteur who could not be on the plane – a rapporteur who had to get to Trondheim in another way to fly to Oslo. There's also some reason why Onøe has deployed larger aircraft on some flights, just to increase capacity that way. So I want to distance myself from the Workers' Party's black paint here. I'm aware that in some places someone at some airports wants to get a better offer than what you have. What was our clear message when I traveled around with Avinor, and I experienced hearing from rapporteurs and airport managers, was that if one believes that one has greater potential for the number of travelers than one has today, it makes sense to make contact with Onlooke and show it the potential – because I think onions are also busy making money. And now you can also contact FlyViking.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1017	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but as the Council of State itself is involved, this is not just about the FOT routes or just about the commercial offer. That's the total offer. But because the FOT routes play such a big role, it's an important factor in the total offer. And it's not the Workers' Party that presents this criticism, it's a criticism that comes from business representatives, people who live in North Norway, and people elected in North Norway who feel that the offer has become worse in many places. In some places they experience a better offer, but many have received a worse offer. My question is just about that, because there's something about the framework conditions of the government here. The Council of State is pushing Objection ahead, but under this government, Onøe has received an increase in the VAT on travel, an increase in the employer's fee and, in particular, an air passenger fee has also been paid which leads to a deterioration in the framework conditions in order to offer an offer to the people of Northern Norway. My question to the Council of State was: What will the Council of State do with the offer that has become worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1022	That's what I said. Among other things, I mentioned: that it makes sense – and I also heard that from most politicians, including the local politicians of the Workers' Party who were a little more constructive in finding solutions – to talk to Onions to show what potential is there, to talk to FlyViking, who has shown great interest in creating new routes. I also notice that the representative Sivertsen smoothly ignores any place that gets better offers. But this is reflected in the fact that the representative Juvik, who is a party colleague with the representative Sivertsen, once the FOT routes were out, sent an internal e-mail to the Labour Party's local staging representatives, who said that now we have to go out and criticise this, even though some places have improved. This shows that the Workers' Party has a black paint approximation, which I do not think is good. With regard to the charging systems, the representative Sivertsen knows that I represent a party that wants to work for lower charges. Then the other at Stortinget wants to work for higher charges. I note that the Workers' Party has added to its alternative budgets both air passenger charges, increased VAT and the other charges that are being criticised here. But it uses the Workers' Party itself voluntarily in its budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1031	The Council of State obviously does not listen, because I just said that in some places you experience a better offer, but my question is: What will the Council of State do to the places where you feel that you have received a worse offer? It's not going to go in there at all. Instead, he blames us for trying black paint. I address a problem for many of my inhabitants, for whom I am an agent and am concerned. That's what the state council claims to be black paint. If that's the approach, then the council of states is blaming what's important. In North Norway, air routes are an important part of public transport. There is no alternative – as a train. The bus tours that are too long for it to be effective for business. That is why air traffic is incredibly important. Then the Council of State would like to criticise the Workers' Party for budgeting with the fees imposed under this government, but they are now there once, so we have to deal with them. It has made the framework conditions more difficult, and differences between parts of the country are increasing. What will the Council of State do to reduce the differences that are now occurring between some parts of the country, where we are developing the collective provision, while some other places in North Norway are getting worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1038	It is a little strange that in two answers I have now said some of these things, while the representative Sivertsen – and probably when he reproduces this to the media as well – will pretend that it was not affected by the Council of State. I've been into it. It's about contacting and talking to the airlines that provide services, and trying to get it adjusted. In some states in North Norway, someone did it and got improvements, but I'm recording that, for example. someone in the areas that the representative here is talking about was more concerned about going to the government than actually working with the market. It's actually in the market that provides the air services, that you're able to do this first and foremost. Then we must ensure good framework conditions. It is a little strange to hear that the Workers' Party says that the Workers' Party in the opposition cannot have its own views on the framework conditions, that only one has to enter the levels of fees that are. No, you know what: Alternative budgets are just a place where the parties get to show their primary positions, and in the opposition, the Workers' Party has every opportunity to show its primary positions, and so the Workers' Party's primary positions are increased fees, not lower charges such as one gives the impression in the debate here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1048	I would like to ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: ‘In February 2016, at the hearing, the Government sent a proposal for the repeal of the entire serving law. Among the other Tax Directorates, the Municipality of Oslo, the Municipality of Bergen, the Police Directorate and all the police districts that spoke out clearly warned against this. [[POD]] POD even concluded that ‘the conditions for other illegal activities’ and ‘the creation of significant regulatory problems’ could not naturally be continued in other laws’. Has the government abandoned the proposal to remove the serving law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1057	The proposal to repeal the food law was part of the ministry's work on cleaning up its own legislation. A report on the food industry received by the Ministry stated that the actors experienced the current regulatory situation as unpredictable and overlapping. I still believe that the challenges facing the food industry do not mean the need to use appropriations, as required by the Food and Drug Administration Act. The credit institution is mainly used for services on which a society relies and which specifically require public confidence. These are services that require a specific competence. And in some cases, there is also a requirement for good conduct. A good example of this is the health care system, where there is widespread use of authorisation that requires competence and, among other things, vandel. In my view, serving food and drink is not a social task that requires authorisation. The key to food and drink provision is, above all, satisfactory hygiene conditions – and it is regulated in line with the Food Act and controlled by the Food Authority. When municipalities withdraw a food allowance, they actually impose a loss of rights on individuals. In other industries with which I believe the food industry is comparable, for example: daily and clean, it is the criminal law that sets the threshold for loss of rights. I have met with the Municipality of Oslo and am familiar with their point of view similar to the views of the Police Directorate. However, that repealing the law would have allowed more illegal activities, I do not necessarily agree. In addition to the serving law, we have a comprehensive code that targets this industry, and some of the feedback in the report received by the department was that the serving law did not work as it intended. I believe that part of the provisions of the serving law are adequately protected by other legislation. Some non-regulated provisions may be continued in a separate law, corresponding to the consultation note proposed for the provision on opening hours. On the part of the government, however, we have chosen not to promote a bill on the serving law this spring. Through the consultation of the proposal, a major resistance to its removal was demonstrated, which means that I want to take a new round and look at the matter before we possibly get back to Stortinget. We have also announced that we will review the control and supervisory regime aimed at the tourism sector, with the aim of simplifying and improving cooperation between departments and supervisory authorities. For that reason, it is natural to look at the food law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1074	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State and for telling me that she will take a new round out of objections that have come, and go into them. That part of the answer is positive. I believe that the serving law is a familiar tool and a transparent legal instrument. If the homes to be built in order to have a serious restaurant industry also in the field of serving and not only alcohol – both parts, both types of outdoor facilities – it would be easier to have one serving law than to have to look for different types of legislation for homes and sometimes not find them homes, because they are not available today, and you have to make a supplementary law, as the Council of State spoke about. I think it could be a conglomerate and actually more bureaucratic and more difficult to figure out than what you have today. So my input to the state council is whether she sees that you can actually make it more complicated than easier by abolishing a despite all the transparent law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1081	I see the point of the representative, but today I believe this is the situation. It's extremely unintelligible. When someone starts a business, it's very difficult to deal with all the supervisory authorities, all the laws and regulations that apply. It's not like something's getting more illegal because it's housed in several places. So I mean essentially that the purpose of the serving law is protected by other rules, but I take seriously the recordings I have received. The point of a consultation round is to go a thorough round to see how we can do this. In the restaurant business, there are things that we are all concerned with fighting, but I feel that we are doing it through channels other than the food law. So it's like this industry has a very large number of cross-checks, and it's clear that it's demanding. We have to look at how we can both care for important considerations and make it a little bit easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1086	I thank you for the additional reply as well. I believe that in addition to food hygiene, which the Council of State was involved in serving places, some of the catering sites are out of place and some of them are out of business with regard to unprofessional activities, order problems, etc. Here the police point out that they are afraid that abolishing the food law could lead to more illegal activities. They point to the need to have a rule that one should have a satisfactory reputation for being a central person in food service activities, that one should have an Executive Director, that one should have passed the inaugural test, as the Stortinget decided in 2007. They also point to the need for information and notification obligations for the tax haven and municipalities to know which service points they have and to have the opportunity to check and have an overview, and point to the need to have a basis for carrying out inspections in the event of a suspected crime. They point to the need to be able to impose approved guards in places where necessary, to have temporary closures, etc. Doesn't the Council of State see that there could be central tools we're missing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1091	As I said at the outset, I insist that most of the relationships that the representative here mentions are actually regulated in existing laws and regulations, and we don't need a double set. There are also many notions that the serving law does not work as intended. And in the case of the inaugural test, I would like to say that it is very special to require one industry to know the laws and regulations in its field. We assume that all those who establish their own business can – if they establish an electrician’s business, if they set up a public limited liability company to run a fund investment, if they operate a serving site. This is simply something we have confidence that individuals can do. But, as I said, I'm taking the serious hearing. I have my point of view on this matter, but I am concerned that we take care of the matters raised by the representative here. That's why we're going to go another round. But I hope the representative agrees that we need a good travel life in growth, which understands and can handle the control regimes and the laws and rules that we as a society have set. It has to be a goal that we spend the least time on it and the most time on doing good and healthy business.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1099	My question to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality is as follows: ‘The number of children living in poverty in Norway today has increased by 2 pst. compared to 2012. In Skien, Telemark’s largest municipality, child poverty has risen to 13.9 p.m. It's about 1,535 children, which is well above the national average. Why does the government pursue a policy that reinforces and does not reduce this trend, by, among other things, giving 25 billion dollars. In tax cuts, mainly to the richest, while unemployment is record high and children's support is cut off to the poorest?'
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1108	The government looks seriously at the figures from the SSB, which shows that the number of children living in families with persistently low incomes is increasing. The main factor that can improve the situation of children in the long term is improving the family economy. For this reason, the government is pursuing a policy to get more people in work and a policy that ensures more jobs. The fact that parents have a job is the most important factor in preventing children from growing up in poverty. In the future, therefore, a safe and flexible labour market and the creation of new jobs across the country, with good infrastructure development and good framework conditions will be important. What we know for sure is that raising taxes by 15 billion will not help against child poverty. kr, as requested by the Working Party. It's not right that only the richest get tax credits. Everyone has been taxed with this government, and a normal family has got $8,000 more to go with since the government change, money that the Workers' Party is going to choose to take from people. The working party has increased taxes before, and this does not lead to fewer poor people. The Labour Party accuses the government of only investing in lower taxes, but of our investments, 13 are pst. to lower taxes and taxes. Rest – 87 pst. – is used for investments, including: in transport, knowledge and health. More well-being and safe jobs are the bet – it works. Unemployment is falling throughout Norway, and on Tuesday we could read in Stavanger Evening magazine that notices of cancellations and layoffs in the oil town have dried out completely. There is no easy solution to this problem. According to the SSB, one of the main causes of poverty and inequality is also high immigration. More than half of the low-income families have a migrant background, and four out of ten immigrant women have no job. Increasing immigration will therefore also increase differences. The government, together with the cooperation parties, has committed itself to targeted action against child poverty. Among other things, we have the establishment of a more reasonable childcare space for low-income families and a national free-core childcare scheme for all children in low-income families who are three years old. The main work on child poverty is in municipalities. In the National Audit Office’s survey on child poverty, it was found that many municipalities do not do enough to allow poor children to participate socially, better coordination of government efforts, and that more municipalities have problems identifying poor children, and therefore efforts are not sufficiently targeted. We've followed up on these points in this period, and we've developed indicators for child poverty where municipalities are going to get a better idea of how many children they're talking about. The network tool has enabled municipalities to better target their efforts and to establish more and better responses. I see that several of the representatives in Stortinget have benefited from these indicators in designing the questions of today's Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1125	These are indicators, but in reality they are young people we are talking about. And it helps very little for the kids I'm referring to, for example. in Telemark, that the Council of State is pleased with its own policy. The speech is clear on the fight against child poverty and against its far-reaching success. On the contrary, it is a strong increase. Nor do we see any light in the tunnel when it comes to the projections for the next few years, given the current policy. It is also often said that the differences are increasing due to immigration. But it's no longer a good thing that the differences are increasing because there are immigrant children. It may also mean that this government is not happy with its integration policy either. My question is: When we know that eight out of ten children with Somali background live in families with the current low income – what will the council do for those children?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1134	The fight against child poverty must be fought in many fields, and I also record that the previous government has failed to achieve its goal of eliminating poverty with a pen stroke. That is why the government has made a determined move to help the children who live here and now, and to prevent poverty from inheriting. Free core time, introduced for all children between three and five years of age, will help parents to get into work while children learn languages. Reducing parental payments in kindergartens will benefit these children, as well as the national grant scheme that municipalities can apply for, which allows children to have the opportunity for holidays and leisure activities, which we also know is important for children living in low-income families. The most important thing we can do is to make sure that parents get into work, and I'm worried about the development that's happening now, where it takes longer to get minority families into work or education and to learn languages. That's why I'm worried that these numbers are going to increase in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1143	We probably share that concern. My concern is for all children and all families, and the situation we have today, which is so many outside the labour market, is a huge challenge. We are quite a few of them. The problem is that there are too few measures from this government to get people to work. In my home country, there are 4,028 children between 0 and 17 who live in households with three years of low income, according to Bufdir. We have a record high unemployment rate and a sharp decline in the part of work, the lowest in 20 years. The fact that we have more children living in families with income than in families with two incomes means that more people experience poverty. Then both the government and the minister have several tools they can use to do something about it. And then my final question is: What kind of initiative will the Minister for Children take to ensure that more children can grow up in families with two incomes than in families with one income?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1150	It is particularly true that the representative now refers to these indicators, but it also shows that the work we have done to get the indicators in place makes the municipalities much better equipped to find the children who live in the families where extra measures need to be put in place. This is a work we have to do together – both with the municipalities, the state and the volunteer – to help the children living in low-income families. So it's like we have to help them out in work. The government has now strengthened the introduction programme to enable them to use their skills. The whole process of integration undertaken by the government is important for more people to get into work. We know that where there are two incomes in Norwegian ethnic families, we see that immigrant families often have one income, and therefore it is important to get more immigrant women into work, so that they can participate and contribute to the family economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1160	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality: ‘According to the SSB count from March, Trondheim has 6.9 pst. Poor child. By comparison, Drammen has 17.5 pst, which is the highest in the country. Trondheim has focused on reducing the differences between people. But under this government, the differences are increasing, and almost 100,000 children are poor. Nevertheless, the government's tax cuts go first and foremost to the rich. At the same time, vulnerable groups, such as child support, are being cut. Does the Council of State see that government policy is countering the objective of reducing differences in Trondheim?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1169	In 2014, the National Disability Grant Scheme was established. After this, efforts have increased sharply, and the scheme is now 193 million. kr. The increase has resulted in a number of municipalities receiving support for action against child poverty. Trondheim and Drammen have been receiving funds for work against child poverty for several years. Since 2014, the municipality of Trondheim has received between 2,8 and 3,4 million annually. kr in support and Drammen between 2,5 and 2,9 million. kr. I know that both municipalities work systematically and holistically with local measures aimed at poor children, young people and their families. A requirement for the municipalities receiving the grant is that they have a focal point function which shall be a link between voluntary and public efforts to ensure that the measures reach the families concerned. Both Trondheim and Drammen have set a good example in this work. Several government grant schemes are part of the work of the Leisure Declaration, a cooperation between the government, non-governmental organisations and the KS. The purpose of the declaration is to establish good and long-term cooperation that all children, irrespective of the income of their parents, should be able to participate regularly in at least one organised leisure activity with their friends. The main work on child poverty is in municipalities. In the National Audit Office’s survey on child poverty, it was found that many municipalities do not do enough to allow poor children to participate socially, that better coordination of state efforts can be achieved, that more municipalities have problems identifying poor children, and that therefore efforts are not sufficiently targeted. This is why we have developed indicators of child poverty where municipalities can easily get an overview of how many children this is about. Several municipalities are actively using indicators in policy development and in developing local action plans to tackle child poverty. The representative Güven is wrong when he believes that the government only gives tax relief to the rich. Everyone gets lower taxes with the Right and the Advance Party. And it's still the way that those who make the most contribute the most. The 10 pst. The richest pay 38 pst. of all personal taxes in Norway, 37,4 pst. without taxes on wealth. The Labour Party must therefore stop pretending that Norway’s government finances are on the verge of whether we have property taxes or not. Social differences in Norway are largely driven by immigration. The main reason that many immigrant families have poor finances is that their parents do not have work. Children with a migrant background now make up 53.4 pst. of all children in low-income families. Therefore, it is good integration policy to ensure that parents have labour income. It's one of the most important things we can do to combat child poverty. The government is sticking to the line of work. It's worth working. Therefore, it is important that we now look at how we can get more minority families into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1182	Obviously, municipalities work differently depending on who governs in individual cities, in terms of reducing the differences. The district of Saupstad-Kolstad, where I've grown up, is the district of Trondheim that has the biggest demographic challenges. Here, the municipality and the county have taken into account the realities and focus strongly on area promises, free core time in the SFO and the new construction of schools for billions. Such measures contribute to raising the urban area as a whole and provide for smaller differences. At the same time, we see a government that increases the maximum prices in kindergartens and gives tax cuts to those who already have enough of them. Does the Council agree that this is the wrong way to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1187	There are, as the representative was also involved, many municipalities and many urban areas that are doing an incredibly good job of seeing the children living in low-income families – ensuring that they have leisure activities and entering with extra support to the families that need it the most. Then the government has extended the free core time scheme to the whole country, where all 3 to 5 year-olds now have the possibility of free core time in the kindergarten, while at the same time reducing the nursery prices for low-income families. It's true that we have increased the maximum price a little bit in order to be able to reduce the price of low income families. It surprises me that the Workers' Party is critical of this, and I hope they have not intended to reverse cheap kindergartens to low-income families. We must ensure that poverty is not inherited, and that children and young people follow up on school and get an education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1196	During the weekend's national meeting, the Council of State party promised a 50-billion-billion-dollar tax party. kr in the year, primarily for those who have enough from before. The question to the Council of State will then be, Will any of these billions contribute to less differences in our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1201	Taxes are important to allow families to retain more of their income. Therefore, the government has actively committed itself to reducing taxes and charges for all residents of the country. A normal family with an average income from two full-time jobs will pay NOK 8 000 less in taxes per year under the tax rules imposed by that government. It is also important that we do not now tax companies so much that they cannot invest in jobs for the population. Therefore, it is important that we strengthen employment, lower taxes and taxes, but at the same time have measures to help children living in low-income families. That is the national grant scheme of 193 million. This is what we have done to reduce the prices of kindergartens for families with low incomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1211	‘In 2013, the maximum price for a children’s garden area was NOK 2330 per year. months. In 2017, it is $2,730 per year. months. The increase is far beyond price adjustment. At the same time, there are great variations in the parental payment in the SFO. Figures from the SSB show that there are almost 100,000 children growing up in poverty in Norway. In Akershus, 9 200 children live in households with persistent low incomes. Does the Council aim to reduce child poverty in Norway, and when does it expect that there will be fewer poor children in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1218	First of all, I will be allowed to say that I am happy that the representatives address this important topic. Like the representatives, I'm worried about the evolution we're seeing now. That's why it's so important to get your parents to work. The government has a strategy against child poverty, the aim of which is to prevent poverty from being inherited and to improve the quality of life of children here and now. The fact that parents have jobs is one of the most important factors to avoid children growing up in poverty. A safe and flexible labour market where new jobs are created throughout the country is important in the years to come. One of the main causes of poverty and inequality, according to the SSB, is high immigration. More than half of the low-income families now have a migrant background. Four out of ten immigrant women have no job. Increasing immigration will therefore increase differences. For many immigrants, we know that it takes time to establish itself in the labour market and in the Norwegian society. That is why we need a good integration of immigrants and a strict immigration policy, which ensures that there will be no more than we can integrate in a good way. Combating exclusion and inequality is about good policies to create more jobs, about controlled immigration and good integration policies and about equipping our welfare system so that it can be there in the decades to come. The reversal of all reforms, a more liberal immigration policy and more difficult conditions for job creation will hardly help to reduce differences in Norway. In these four years, the Right and Advance Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have just worked to address the causes of poverty and exclusion: by investing in the knowledge school, early work and fairer kindergartens for those who have poor advice through a strong policy to create more jobs, which has turned pessimism and decline to optimism by strengthening drug treatment and psychiatry, which has reduced the waiting time for drug treatment by as much as 40 pst. by making clear requirements, such as: obligation of activity for young beneficiaries of social assistance and by increasing support for the fight against poverty to a historically high level We're not done, and there's a lot left to do in school, in health and in work, but it doesn't help with easy solutions and slogans. Outreach, inequality and poverty in Norway have many causes. It can be addiction and health problems, school drop-outs, lack of integration and lack of work. Even more difficult is to break the vicious circle where poverty passes from generation to generation. This government is not going to give up. We've still done a lot of work. It will be an important factor in the future to ensure that we have work for those who are going to work, to ensure that children living in low-income families are cared for here and now, and also to prevent poverty from inheriting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1250	We hear that the answer to the government council is to get jobs. Consensus is the most important measure to combat child poverty. The problem is that the government's policy leads to the opposite. Unemployment has increased every day with this government over the last four years. Then we hear they point to increased immigration. Well, it's a confession that the Council of States failed to integrate while she was responsible for the integration policy in Norway before Sylvi Listhaug took over, and now she's in the Stortinget, blaming that there's a poor integration policy that is responsible for child poverty. I did not get an answer to the question I asked. It was really just an outline of the same thing she's been saying to the other children's poverty questioners. My question is: does the Council of State aim to reduce child poverty in Norway? If so, when will we be able to see a lower child poverty within her remit?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1261	Unlike the Aukrust representative – who is a member of the Workers' Party – and the previous government, I do not intend to stand here and say that we should abolish the child poverty with a pen stroke. Because this is complex work, and I'm worried about the future development where child poverty is going to increase, and we know that over 50 pst. of the children living in low-income families now come from an immigration family. With the influx of asylum we've had now, which the Aukust representative is also fully aware of, it takes longer to get immigrants to learn language, to get an education, to get ready to go out to work. That's why the government's integration work, with good support from the Storting, is becoming very important in the future. I would like to stress that there have never been as many residents as during the function of this Council of State as the Minister of Integration and under this government. So maybe that's what August's representative should also take over. But reducing poverty and helping children living in low-income families, the government aims to raise high and actively work with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1268	First, a comment that there has never been any more. Well, it's very good that people get settled. It is good that the municipalities do that job. This is because the municipalities do not do what the party leader of the Children's Minister encouraged the municipalities to do when she opened the election campaign two years ago, namely to say no to the requests you would get from the Swedish Council of Solvency Horne. It's fascinating to hear the Minister of the Child, because she's actually resigned in her work. She says that child poverty is going to increase. It is possible that it is very honest to say, but it is at least not to do the job that a Minister for Children in Norway should do. A child minister in Norway should say that my goal is to bring down child poverty. I'll do what I can to get to that. One of the instruments she pointed to in a previous answer is this scheme against child poverty. But we've seen that the grant scheme is very underfunded, and there's a lot more applications coming in than you can afford. It is good that the Left and Christian People's Party in Stortinget have got that grant scheme up. The Labour Party had a proposal to increase it further. If this is such an important measure, why does the Minister for Children not give more priority to this scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1277	The most important thing we can do is get your parents to work. Then we need measures to secure these families. This is a work where the government has not resigned, but we are actively working with the Left and Christian People's Party on it. We have a strategy with over 64 measures. We've reduced the parental payment for those with low income. We have introduced free core time, and it's a trial plan with free SFO for the families who need it. We have focused on drug and psychiatry interventions, which are also important measures to help families who need to get to work more quickly. And the grant scheme we have now has been historically high under this government and is now at 193 million. kr. It is a record number of children who are now offered holiday and leisure activities, but it is a job that the government is not able to do alone. We are totally dependent on cooperation with volunteering, with organisations and with municipalities. And the fact that we have now prioritised putting these online tools in place, makes the municipalities also better able to see the children who live in these families.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1287	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Health: ‘In Oslo there is a nine-year difference in life expectancy between the city of Sagene and the city of West Aker. We know that socio-economic differences can explain much of the variation, but also that active public policies help to reduce differences. Under the current government we are going in the wrong direction, and now we see, among other things, that half a million have taken out private health insurance. What has the Council of State done to reduce differences?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1296	It is incredibly important to combat social inequality in terms of health. If the Workers' Party measures my success in that area in terms of the growth of private health insurance, it is quite a judgment of its own policy. Until the second quarter of 2016, there was an increase of less than 80 000 from the end of 2013. Compared to the increase under the red-green government, which was record high, we had an increase of 100,000 only between 2010 and 2011. If the growth in the sale of private health insurance is the Workers' Party's unit of measurement as to whether a government contributes to increased or not increased social inequality, it is a fierce sentence on its own policies. If we're going to fight inequality, we're going to have to go to the reasons why inequality occurs. The main cause of health concerns mental health and drug dependence. This government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has launched an escalating plan on the Russ field, which is historic, where we're going to spend 2.4 billion. In order to improve the provision of services to drug addicts during a five-year period. The waiting time for drug treatment is now record low, and there are greater options. Russ institutions that were adopted under the previous government are up and going, and they are now treating patients. At the same time, early efforts are extremely important, especially in the case of children and young people’s mental health. That's why we've had a strong commitment to school health services, health centres, grouped up to 1 billion. kr during this four-year period. That's what results are. We took over a situation where the number of people in the municipalities who worked with children and the mental health of young people was reduced year by year in relation to the number of children and young people. We've turned that development around, and we're about to resume the slowdown from the red-green government. Combating social inequalities and health inequalities is also about looking at what explains the differences in health and life expectancy between different groups. The use of tobacco continues to be one of the main explanations of health inequalities in Norway. That is why it has been very important for me, as Minister of Health, to have Norway back in the front line when it comes to tobacco control. That is why I am very pleased that Norway, as one of the first countries after Australia, France and the United Kingdom, introduced standardised tobacco and snuff packages from 1 July just to prevent children and young people from starting tobacco, which is still a main explanation of health differences between groups in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1313	It is probably true that both tobacco and other types of drug are a cause of health differences. I don't doubt that for a second. But health is also affected by income, and it is affected by education and residence. There are large differences in average life expectancy between Norwegian municipalities. It is within Norwegian municipalities, and there are differences between families, because it has something to do with socio-economic status. In addition to the consumption of tobacco and alcohol, there are also health differences between different communities. These include: on physical activity where there are major differences between the different social classes. Several schools have already introduced physical activity every day. Is the Minister of Health willing to contribute to this in all schools and to make contact with his colleague in the other department?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1318	Clearly, there are differences in life expectancy based on income and participation. But it is then important to go back and figure out what the reason for it is. Many of the reasons for this include: a fall from education due to mental health challenges and drug dependence. In contrast to what the Workers' Party does, which only talks about the results of the inequalities once they have arisen, we must do what the Right does: dig down into what is the cause of inequality in Norway, and then grab hold of it. That's why it's so incredibly important to make early efforts in terms of children's and young people's mental health, and I'm very happy that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have said that in the next period we're going to have a stepping-up plan for children and young people's mental health. In the case of physical activity, the main challenge is falling physical activity at the level of youth. That's why I'm very happy that I, along with the Minister of Knowledge, have started the biggest project with increased physical activity in the youth class that has ever been launched.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1325	In addition to what the Council of State mentions, there are at least two things that affect health. One is physical activity in growth and in school, and it's important that it can happen in all schools. The second is actually dieting through growth, where there are also very big differences. That's why it's important, what's now happening in Oslo, that you give an offer of school food in some schools, for example. at the North Pole and Nordberg schools. It helps to balance the differences, and it does not least help to balance the differences in health and growth conditions. The approach to food and meals in these types of arenas made by school means much to children and young people’s eating habits and diets. Is it possible for the Council of State to address the issue of the spread of school food in schools as a health measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1330	First, I have to answer what goes on physical activity and meals in school. In childhood, we see that children and young people are physically active, very much in line with the recommendations given, and it is also very easy for the school to include activity in education. There are very good results. The challenge comes at a young age. There is a very common perception that children and young people fall from organized physical activity in the afternoon, while becoming more inactive at school. That's why the government has chosen to bet on getting knowledge of how to ensure more physical activity during the school day at youth. In the case of meals, we have presented a national strategy for that. We also have clear recommendations for schools. Firstly, it is not only in Oslo, but in large parts of the country that good meal solutions are established at school. However, the main challenge in Norway is that children do not have time to eat the food package they carry. That's why, together with the Minister of Knowledge, we've given a clear message to the schools that they have to put off enough time for the children to eat the food, not just bring food or get food.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1343	‘In the municipality of Tysne, Health Fonna and the taxi industry have not agreed on a permanent solution for a pre-paid taxi during patient travel. This has led patients to cancel medical consultations because they have not been able to afford the trip. The taxi industry reported to the newspaper Tysnes on 6 April 2017 that for some, this concerned amounts up to NOK 8 000. Does the Council of State consider this acceptable, or is the health care provider obliged to find solutions so that patients do not have to spend themselves?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1350	It is true that in the municipality of Tysne for a period of approx. a month has not been provided with a new solution for a taxi paid in advance between the health business and the taxi industry. However, it is informed in contact with Health Fonna that a new contract has now been concluded for the requested patient transport in the municipality of Tysne. The agreement came into effect on 1 April of this year. When patient transport agreements are concluded between health regions and taxi suppliers, public procurement legislation is followed. The contracts are of limited duration, so that a good offer to the patient can be carried out together with a reasonable price for the health business. Thus, the focus is on maximising the resources of the healthcare business when agreements are made, so that one also ensures that resources go to patient care and good services for patients. On a general basis, it can be mentioned that regional health companies are responsible for patient transport. This is provided by the specialist health service law § 2-1a. The responsibility lies with the organisation of sound health services, including: for patient transport. Patients’ rights are governed by the Patient and User Rights Act and the Patient Travel Regulation. A revised regulation entered into force in the autumn of 2016 with the aim of clarifying patients’ rights. According to Sections 2 to 6 of the Act and the Regulation, patients and other users are entitled to cover the necessary expenses when they have to travel to and from treatment. The right is limited to financial compensation and does not entitle patients to requested transport. Patient travel is carried out in two ways: by the patient planning the journey, spending the cost himself and then applying for compensation after the journey has been completed. These are travels without requisition. In addition, patient travel may also be travel by requisition. All health regions of the country have access to the provision of services to receive transport to patients who, for health reasons, need to have an organised transport service. Finally, I would like to take it into account that it is important that users use their right to complain and send a complaint if they believe that the rights to patient travel are not fulfilled. A complaint will first be dealt with by the patient travel office that has dealt with the case. If complaints are not supported, the complaint shall be forwarded to the county of the country in question for final processing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1365	When Health Fonna failed to reach an agreement with the taxi industry for people on Tysnes who are going to travel with requisition, so that the patients who were going for example. being filed or coming to an investigation, had to spend thousands of dollars itself, was Health Fonna's conduct then in line with the law of promise? Or didn't Health Fonna have the opportunity to leave out a system so that these patients could avoid having to pay themselves? That's my question. Can a health care professional act that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1370	Of course, it is not desirable that there be no agreement between a health company and the taxi industry on such issues, but these are also issues where I believe the representative understands that there are two parties that have negotiations on prices and conditions. It is very unfortunate that the kind of periods that have arisen here, where there is no agreement in place, which goes beyond the patients. But now a solution has been found, and the agreement has come into place. I also think I would warn against a situation in which one places the taxi industry in the position that they have veto rights on terms and that there is no real negotiation between the taxi industry and the companies. Then I think the representative will feel that unnecessary money goes into the taxi industry's pockets instead of for patient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1377	You haven't found a permanent solution to this problem. By the fact that the taxi industry has given up because they thought it must be a defensive offer to patients, the responsibility that Health Fonna did not take. My question was not answered. Obviously, it's not desirable with such a situation, it all understands. But my question was basically: can a health care provider just say that here we don't make an agreement, here we push this issue over to patients, who have to spend up to $8,000 to get to the necessary health care? Is it the law and order of a health care professional to avoid entering into an agreement, whatever the reason? I understand that there are negotiations and things like that, but does a health care company have the opportunity to push this over to patients if there is no solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1384	Firstly, I want to be very careful about allocating responsibility in a case where there are two parties negotiating, and where there are clearly strong financial interests inside the picture. So I'm not going to join that description of who wants the patients well, as the representative here came along. Then I answered the representative's question in my first answer: According to § 2-6 of the Act and the regulation, the starting point is that patients and other users have the right to cover the necessary expenses when they have to travel to and from treatment. The right is limited to financial compensation and does not entitle patients to requested transport. However, it is true that all health regions have organised an offer of requisitioned transport for patients who, for health reasons, need to have an organised transport service. That's still going to be that way. Then I also hope that we avoid the kind of situations that have arisen in Tysnes, and both parties have a responsibility for that not happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1402	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1410	This question, from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Health on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1415	‘In Hordaland now more than every 10 students go to private secondary school. It's the highest proportion in the country. The private schools are created in the Bergen Centre. The county must choose between not having schools in the centre or leaving school places in the districts. Young people in the districts, those with poor grades or those with parents who cannot afford private school are losers. Is it not the concern of the Council of State that this will increase differences, reduce options for young people and lead to fewer completions of secondary education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1422	The approval system under the Law on Free Schooling is discretionary. Authorisation shall not be granted if there will be negative consequences for the host municipality or the host county. This is a consequence of today’s law on free schooling and is a continuation of the practice under the former private school law. I believe that the legislation establishes a reasonable balance between the consideration of the host municipality and the host state on the one hand and the consideration of the youth's ability to choose between different schools on the other. The county council has the overall responsibility for secondary education and must have a wide range of training provision that takes into account the statutory obligation to take into account, among other things. the wishes of the applicants and the needs of society. A reasoned objection that the establishment of a post-secondary school would make it difficult to maintain a decentralised offer as a result of the failure of a student base would be relevant in the application procedure. The Ministry does not want increased possibilities to establish fresh schools to make it more difficult for students who want to choose a public school. Therefore, in assessing the impact on the school structure, it is relevant to consider the relationship with the secondary school and the reasonable route for the group of students wishing to attend a public school. Approved fresh schools shall be open to all applicants qualifying for admission to public school. Intakes into urban health schools therefore apply irrespective of where in the country or place of residence of the applicant. The Free School Act also has a clear upper limit on self-payment by students. This helps to ensure that fresh oils can be a real alternative for most people. In contrast to public schools, it is not required that post-secondary schools rank applicants according to entry points. There is therefore no reason for young people with low grades to come out worse as a result of the admission of independent schools. Similarly, I see no reason for increased options to lead to fewer completions of secondary education, on the contrary. I would also like to point out that more than half of the students in private secondary schools in Hordaland are students at schools approved on the basis of life views, a recognised pedagogical direction or at schools providing training specifically for the disabled. So over half of those who choose a private offer choose a real alternative to public school. I believe this shows that colleges provide students with increased choices in important areas of their lives. In Hordaland, the proportion of students attending a private secondary school is slightly higher than in other counties. However, I am not concerned that this will have a negative impact on young people’s choices or the implementation of secondary education in Hordaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1435	It's quite right that in the eight years of bourgeois rule, a lot of new private schools were approved, so what's now described is like new schools. But the minister is not worried. The situation is that 1,900 private school places are in the Bergen center. They have a concession to pursue high school and receive grants per student who is eternal. They now got e.g. School places are converted from study-specific sites to be built, which are not desired. The county no longer has the opportunity to fulfil its social mandate by offering good enough choice in terms of the breadth of the profession or having enough space in the districts versus cities. When one sees the result and how it has now been, is there no need to put in place measures to limit private individuals and increase the ability of the public to govern?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1440	I believe that today's law precisely balances these considerations, which will be emphasised when the various schools apply for approval. In Hordaland, applicants also have the opportunity to apply to secondary schools throughout the county, completely independent of residence, so it is difficult to see that the claim for reduced options is a consequence of high school classes in Bergen. When one looks at the number of seats approved, it is that under the Stoltenberg II administration, 725 seats were approved in Hordaland, which is 20.8 pst. of the total number of places of the day, and so far 66 are approved under the Government of Solberg. It also shows that the balance in today’s law is a continuation of the practice under previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1445	In the past, the Minister as Vice-Chairman in the Right has stated that he is an open opponent of such a dividend restriction as it is in the school today. It has also been said that freedom of choice for students is positive, because it can affect the content. But the reality now in Hordaland is that mountain people have very few options — or perhaps a good economy, so that they can go to private schools. Public school provision is limited, while reducing school provision in the district to finance at least some offer in Bergen. Have we not now reached a limit in relation to the ideal goal of freedom of choice, and what action will the Minister take? When reducing the number of places, government needs to reduce public places of study, not among the private. They have no room for action, no authority to ensure that all 16- and 18-year-olds get the best offer and the opportunity to complete secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1450	When it comes to the statement about dividends, I think it must be old – very old! As head of the Right Programme Committee for the programme in force during this period, I was one of those responsible for bringing in a more balanced policy in this area, which has helped to ensure that also the consideration of the offer to students other than those who attend private schools is to be taken into account in the assessment, which is, in reality, a continuation of the balance that was also laid down in the previous law. I believe that today's ban on taking dividends has its own good reason, which concerns education. Then I believe that this must be a concrete assessment based on the applications that are coming. Now there are other considerations to take, for example: I show in my reply that a very large proportion of these student places in Hordaland are about life views, disability and real educational alternatives to public school. There are also important values to take care of in a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1462	The next question from the representative Else-May Botten to the Minister of Knowledge is answered by the Minister of Health and Health on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1467	‘The majority, with the exception of the government parties, asked the government in the 2017 budget to come back with an assessment of how a long-term and robust offer of higher education in Kristiansund could be developed in cooperation with existing colleges or universities and how the project could be carried out. What has the government done to follow the decision of the Storting and to ensure the higher education provision of North-Møre?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1474	In 2016, the University of Molde had about 230 students in Kristiansund divided into petroleum logistics, nursing and some further education. The Western Hemisphere has 12 students taking underwater technology. In addition, the trade school in Kristiansund has approx. 200 students in different subjects. The Kristiansund University Centre was established in 2007 to facilitate the provision of varied study facilities in Kristiansund. In the autumn of 20l6 the board launched a new strategy for the establishment of Campus Kristiansund. This year, it's set at 8.2 million. kr to the university centre. The grant is intended to cover rents, payments for ICT services and to facilitate the provision of study facilities in Kristiansund. The university centre also has a grant from the county council and the municipality of Kristiansund. The conversion of the petroleum sector has contributed to challenges for the labour market in More and Romesdal. In order to strengthen competitiveness and to develop better services, it is necessary to strengthen the competence of the region. In order to follow up the Storting's remark on higher education in Kristiansund, the Ministry of Knowledge has contacted NTNU, the University of Molde and the Højskulen in Volda. The Ministry’s assessment after this dialogue is that the University of Molde should have the primary responsibility for any long-term offer of higher education in Kristiansund. Other educational institutions may, where appropriate, supplement special study facilities requested in the workplace. Coordinate Recording Number shows an increase of 16 pst. in the number of first-choice applicants, ten1 college in Molde. This means that 1.8 first-choice applicants per study place. In addition, there is an increase of over 100 applicants in local recordings. The University of Molde has, among other things: chosen to offer a new bachelor's offer in marine logistics and economics in Kristiansund from autumn 2017. 43 first-choice candidates have registered for the first year of publication of this offer. The university also has a new offer in welfare technology in Kristiansund. These positive candidate figures show that there are good opportunities to increase the proportion of higher education in More and Romesdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1493	I thank you for your answer. It is important that we think about the long-term course of study and the study we have had in Kristiansund. We're on approx. 4.5 pst. on unemployment in Kristiansund, which says that it is demanding, and not least the need, to build skills in order to have opportunities for new business development. The sea is close on in the room of opportunity, and I think a lot of exciting will happen in the future. I think they in Kristiansund want to clarify that there is a long-termity in this. I understand that the Council of State is also concerned about it – I see that there has been a dialogue, and it has been stated that Molde should have the primary responsibility – but can the Council of State say what is then concretely rigged in terms of the long-termity of the offer in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1500	The representative has something very important in mind. The University of Molde has signalled the willingness to offer new studies in Kristiansund, but the university does not have the resources to expand and increase the study offer in Kristiansund permanently over the years. Therefore, higher education is subject to adequate and sustainable funding of study provision. The experience with the search for the study offer in petroleum logistics suggests that the study offers in Kristiansund should be flexible, as the needs of the labour market vary over time. Therefore, in future budgetary processes, the government will consider strengthening the College in Molde with several places of study to be earmarked for Kristiansund in case. The government will present the revised national budget tomorrow. This will give the Stortinget the first opportunity to assess the government’s efforts to strengthen the provision of higher education education in Kristiansund.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1507	I would also like to thank you for that concrete statement. For my part, it is important to be able to ask the State Council if he can actually guarantee that we have a good and flexible study offer in Kristiansund. Because it's incredibly important, it has to do with what kind of business development we get in the future, and it has to do with economics. I really just want a guarantee that we can have that offer in the future as well, and that we can find solutions in the process that is now in place that will confirm and provide predictability for the university centre in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1512	The government agrees with the assessment that it is necessary to strengthen the study provision in More and Romesdal, and we believe that it is important, from a regional development perspective, to provide a guide for an increase in the study places in Molde to be earmarked for Kristiansund. The revised budget will come tomorrow. The government budget for next year is coming to the harvest. As the representative knows, I can't say anything about the content of it before it is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1519	A guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1524	Listen to the radio! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1532	This question, from the representative of Hege Haukeland Liadal to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who is on the move.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1537	‘In 2013, the maximum price for kindergarten space was NOK 2 330 per year. months. In 2017, it is $2,730 per year. months. This is an increase far beyond price adjustment. In April 2016, SAFE informed that the number of children withdrawn from the kindergartens in Stavanger municipality increased and that several of the cases were justified by poor parental advice. Is the Council concerned that the ever-increasing child care prices combined with high unemployment are increasing the differences between those who have a job and not?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1544	All children should have the opportunity to have a high-quality kindergarten offer, and we know that for some parents the price is a reason they choose not to have their children in kindergarten. Therefore, this government has implemented a strengthening of the moderation mechanisms that make kindergarten cheaper or free of charge by up to 20 hours a week for all low-income families. From 1 May 2015, the right to a reduction in the parental payment was changed, so that no family would pay more than 6 pst. of household capital and personal income for a nursery place. The aim of the change was to ensure a better social profile of parental pay while at the same time facilitating the possibility for more people to use kindergarten. From 1 August 2015, a new national free core time scheme was introduced in kindergarten for all four- and five-year-olds from low-income families. The scheme was extended from 1 August 2016 to three-year-olds from low-income families and the income limit was set at NOK 417 000 from the same date. As of December 2016, approximately 18 200 children were covered by the Free Core Time Code. The maximum price for a kindergarten in 2017 is NOK 2 730 per month. In 2013, the maximum price was NOK 2,330 per month. In 2017 this corresponds to NOK 2587. Thus, the monthly maximum price for a nursery place has actually increased by around SEK 140 in the period 2013-2017, i.e. about 5.5 pst. The SSB recently published a report on parental pay in kindergartens. The report shows that an average Norwegian household paid NOK 2 374 for a nursery in January 2017. Compared to January 2016, this is a real decrease of 2 pst. This may be related to the extension of the free core-time scheme for children from low-income households to three-year-olds, which in isolation lowers the average payment. The Storting representative refers to a statement of concern from April 2016 that the number of children taken out of Kinderhagen in Stavanger Municipality has increased. I can reassure the depositor that the latest figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show something else. The proportion of children aged 1–5 years in kindergarten in Stavanger municipality on 15 December 2016 was 90.4 pst. This is an increase of 1.4 percentage points compared to the corresponding period in 2015. This is also a development that we see throughout the country, that the proportion of children in kindergarten is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1559	Many of the unemployed in the Western world today are not initially low-income families. They are basically ordinary families with student loans, car loans and mortgages, and many of them have children. My main question was whether the Council of State is concerned about the increased difference between those who have a job and those who do not have a job and the consequences it brings to the families of children in question. In concrete terms, what has the Council of State done for these families – i.e. families that are not initially low-income families – that are affected by one parent or possibly both parents leaving for unemployment? What has the Council of State done to meet these families?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1566	The question was whether I was worried about the ever-increasing nursery prices combined with leave. As I pointed out in my main response, kindergarten prices have increased by about 5.5 pst. Of course, many bets must also be seen in the context of other schemes: reduced parental benefit for low-income families, completely equivalent treatment for municipal and non-municipal kindergartens, more flexible childcare provision, etc. The most important thing we can do for those people who lose their jobs is to make sure that we get them back into work quickly. We do that by securing the jobs that exist, but also by facilitating the creation of new jobs. Now we see that unemployment goes down for five months in a row – in the whole country and in several industries. We also see that optimism is now rising in Rogaland. We saw big, nice headlines in the papers yesterday about how businesses are starting to hire again. The most important thing we can do for that group is to make sure that they get into work quickly after they've been hit by unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1573	We can go to another part of Rogaland. We can go to Egersund. There the rapporteur says that children are taken out of the labour market, for example. the school leave system, kindergarten and cultural school due to unemployment. To ask my question a little differently: Is the Minister concerned that children with unemployed parents are less active in e.g. the cultural school?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1580	Yes, we should all be concerned if parental income reduces children's ability to participate. In the case of unemployed parents, our main task is to make sure that they get to work quickly. But in the period when you don't have a job and have a low income, there are other schemes that it's important that we target. That's why the government has been busy making it cheaper for families with low incomes to get kindergarten. We have adopted protective systems for the three-, four- and five-year-olds. Testing schemes for SFOs are also available in several places in the country. We are concerned that those who have poor advice will be paid less on important services. Culture School: Yes, similar – we are busy protecting the families who have poor advice. Free parents have to get to work quickly, and then they have to protect their families during the period in which they have low incomes, through schemes adapted to their level of income.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1590	‘In the government consultation note on tenders for follow-up actions, it was stated that ‘several voluntary and private operators should be released’. Former State Council Eriksson said to the NRK in May 2014: ‘We open up to good forces such as the mob project, social entrepreneurs, the Church’s City Mission and the Red Cross to participate in qualifying young people into working life.’ Can the Council of State indicate in concrete terms whether any new voluntary or non-profit suppliers have arrived and, where appropriate, name these new non-profit suppliers who have arrived?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1597	The aim of using competition in the provision of clearing and follow-up services is to use the labour market competence we have for more people to come into work. In a competition, it is the best providers who get the job. Suppliers must periodically document and demonstrate in practice that they can provide qualitatively good labour market services that deliver results. Acquisitions ensure that different supplier and competence environments can compete on a level playing field and that the grants granted are within State aid law. In such a contest, the price agreed on is a legal grant. The result of competition is a greater diversity of suppliers and environments of competence. The aim was not only to facilitate ideal actors; good private providers should also be allowed to do so. Half of the agreements have been concluded with reintroduction and growth companies. Agreements have also been concluded with non-profit suppliers, although the number of non-profit suppliers has been reduced as fewer suppliers have become total. Among the ideals are agreements with the Blue Cross, Adaptor, the Church's Bymition and Fossheim Workshops. Regional departments of Frtex have received tenders in several counties. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has commissioned Proba Societal Analysis AS to evaluate the implementation of the new clarification and follow-up actions. There is now an interim report on how the Employment and Welfare Act has designed competition to achieve simplification, diversity in the supply market and a good offer to users. The main conclusion is that the Employment and Welfare Act has well designed the acquisitions. The evaluation shows that the quality objective was considered to be very important, and this was also well achieved in the procurement process. Among other things, quality was weighted above the price in the award criteria and clear targets have been set for the results to be achieved. Long-term contracts were also concluded to ensure economic predictability for suppliers. The Government has a cooperation agreement with non-profit and non-profit organisations and KS where regular dialogue meetings are also held.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1610	Here the argument of quality and diversity is repeated. The magazine Velferd had a review last June where they show that the situation has gone from diversity to simplicity, and it is documented how ideal and local actors lose terrain while the big ones win. Governments mention that Frtex has won some tenders, but they were already in the sector as a pre-authorised operator. We know that the manning company Adecco, with the mob project as a subcontractor, has won tenders in Agder and More and Romesdal, but that cooperation cannot be called ideal, because the mob project has been purchased by the commercial health chain Aleris AS after the tenders were won. We fear a development that is snuck in. I wonder if the Council of State can nevertheless be satisfied with the capture of so-called new volunteers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1619	Ideal suppliers and social suppliers were asked to enter this market in advance, but the number of tenderers has been low and those who have won have been fewer. Winners have been suppliers who have acquired competence in this area over time. One explanation may be that it has been difficult for new entrants to provide labour market services in the past since the market has been dominated by pre-authorised suppliers, back-up and growth companies. The purpose here has also been to put in place the best possible offer to Nav’s users, regardless of whether the supplier is a reintroduction company, Blue Cross or a commercial supplier. It has been intended to open up the possibility of accessing and providing good services to users, irrespective of the mode of operation, to several persons who have not previously had access to this market. But ideally, yes, I wish that even more ideals would also have been in the competition, but this has not been the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1626	SV fears that the impact of tenders for delivery businesses will be the same as we have seen in other welfare areas, such as children’s protection, kindergartens and asylum recipients, namely a commercialisation where the major players win at the expense of the small ones, they localised and the ideals. In the past, we have challenged Councillor Horne whether she has an overview of where the money in the field of child protection is going. There is the answer that it is not important who provides a service, and it was also revealed that there is no control over how much money reaches welfare professionals, and how much money reaches the kids. It is then natural to ask the Minister of Labour if there is any overview of the proportion – or how much – that would have gone to follow-up of people, but that is currently being extracted as profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1633	As I said in my first answer, half of the agreements that have been concluded have been concluded with reintroduction and growth companies. In addition, agreements have been concluded with non-profit actors, as I also mentioned in my first response. In the tendering process, quality has been weighted higher than the price – 60/40. This means that in the choice of suppliers, the quality aspect has been more important for Nav than the price aspect. I feel quite confident that services to users will be better when you also have to compete for them – it is not just competition, but it is that you have to document the results you have on a regular basis. I have met with repair companies who say they are happy for this, because they have never before been measured on results. They can't even tell you what development they've had before, because you haven't had statistics on their results. Documentation is now required for the first time. Many have not been in the market before. More come in, and I think we'll all be happy for that. Then Nav will follow up that you also deliver what is ordered.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1645	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs: ‘Private actors have won tenders for clarification and follow-up actions, including: Your Development AS, according to the website, has ‘over 300 career guides across the country [...]’. They shall not be employed under normal conditions but shall act as ‘cooperating partners’ through individual enterprises. Does the Council of State fear that this provides competitive benefits to vis-à-vis companies with employees on a regular basis, or does the business model give innovation to the reintroduction field?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1654	Once again, the aim is to use competition in the acquisition of clearing and follow-up services to use the labour market competence we have in order for more people to come into work. In a competition, it is the best providers who get the job. Suppliers must periodically document and also demonstrate in practice that they can provide qualitatively good labour market services that also deliver results to users. Acquisitions shall ensure that different supplier and competence environments can compete on a level playing field and that the grants granted are subject to State aid law. In the event of such competition, the price agreed on is a legal grant. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has commissioned Proba Societal Analysis AS to evaluate the implementation of the new clarification and follow-up actions. There is an interim report on the way in which the Employment and Welfare Act has designed competition in order to achieve simplification, diversity in the supply market and a good offer to users. The main conclusion of the evaluation is that the Employment and Welfare Act has well designed the acquisitions. As a general rule, the rules governing acquisitions do not require the organisation of the activities of a supplier. However, I assume that the quality of the services provided by the company is maintained, and that the business is otherwise in line with the laws and regulations. The Employment and Welfare Act has informed me that an agreement has been reached on the delivery of clarification and follow-up actions with your Development AS. As the representative of Aasrud points out, there have been questions about how your Development AS operates and the organisation of the company. With reference to the contract, the Working and Welfare Act has addressed the issue of working and employment conditions with Your Development AS and is now assessing the company's presentation. Your Development AS must fulfil the contractual obligations entered into by the company towards the Employment and Welfare Act and be able to bear full responsibility for the quality of the services and the results of the efforts. I will now await the follow-up of this specific matter by the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1667	I have to say that the Council's answer surprises me quite a bit. Here we see a hollowing out of what is the Norwegian model of working life, where companies offering public services are going to have permanent employees. Then I would like to ask the Council of State directly: Does the Council of State think that a development in which individual enterprises are set up to provide services to the public is OK?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1672	As I said in my main response, the Working and Welfare Act is now reviewing this specific matter. I'm not going to pre-conclude what's going to be the result of that. It is today that we have provisions in the Employment Act – you have a permanent one, and you have a temporary one – and it is clear that your Development AS, like everyone else, must follow the law in terms of employment forms. You can't set terms of organisation today, but I also assume that all companies provide services within the law. I also think we have to be clear, both in this area and in other areas, that it is not given that all companies will be able to be self-sufficient in all kinds of competences. There may be special skills that it would not be appropriate for the company to employ fully, but where you can hire smaller job breaks, without undermining the entire social model. But I will now await the statement with which the department comes, before I will draw any final conclusion on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1679	I understand so far that the Council of State can hide behind the fact that you now have an investigation into the specific matter, but if you go to the diffi's websites, some advice has been given on how the public should acquire services, including in the health and care sector. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to establish individual enterprises instead of employing people in enterprises that supply to the public when it appears to be the general rule and not a single exemption for a single position?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1684	No, as a general rule, fixed-term employment is to apply, but you can, of course, take people on temporary employment from time to time. You can also rent in if you need it, but that there should be a general rule with individual companies, I don't think it is desirable. But it can also – in this case I shouldn't say it for sure now, until I know the matter well enough and get the explanation – be necessary for companies to hire special skills where you may not need the skills a hundred percent, but you need it in smaller job breaks than that. But in this specific case, the department is now reviewing the agreement, and I will await the statement that comes from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1692	My question to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs is as follows: ‘The dream is the city of Norway with the highest proportion of children growing up in poverty. 2 184 children grow up in households with persistent low incomes. [[17 p.m.]] On a national basis, almost 100,000 children are in the same situation, according to the SSB. At the same time, we see that the government's tax cuts benefit the richest in Norway, that unemployment is record high and employment is record low. Differences between people are increasing. Does the Council of State consider it a political task to reduce the differences between people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1701	Let me first make it clear that the tax breaks benefit all layers of the population. It is also not correct to say that the unemployment rate is record high, even though it is high to Norwegian conditions. It's been higher before, and it's going down now, for five months in a row, in the majority of the country's counties. There is demand for people in several industries, and there is increasing optimism in business. We should all be pleased about that, also because this is important for the representative to address his question. Labour relations are the main means of preventing low income and poverty. The most important steps we can take to combat and prevent poverty from inheriting are to provide a good school for the children, and that their parents are at work. In the last decade, Norway has experienced two economic downturns that have had a significant impact on the labour market. In 2008-2009, the financial crisis, where not only the fall in the employment rate, but also the growth in outside employment among young people, had begun too fully. The Norwegian economy had barely overcome this crisis when we had an oil price drop in 2014, which gave a new increase in unemployment and a further decline in the employment rate. We have to make ourselves less oil addicts and make sure that we get more legs to stand on. This is why the government has facilitated the necessary changes that are now taking place through active labour market policies, research and knowledge development, infrastructure development, regulatory changes and tax relief. We are now beginning to see the results of government policy, both by reducing unemployment and by increasing optimism. You can't talk about inequality and differences without talking about immigration. Immigrants from low-income countries are in low employment, many of them work too little or too short. In order to combat poverty, more of them need to be integrated more quickly into the labour market. The government therefore prioritises the right to work in the introduction programme and Norwegian training. A fast track in the labour market is now being developed for refugees with the skills they need, and a focus is being placed on vocational guidance in reception. Rapid monitoring of recognition of foreign competence, qualification and education is also important. Norway is and will continue to be a country with small differences. Therefore, the government will continue to give priority to high employment and low unemployment, a good school and good health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1718	I thank you for your answer. Always when we're talking about child poverty, it almost seems like the government is trying to push immigrants in front of them, because it's kind of not that dangerous. In that light, it is well documented that cash support is one of the main obstacles to poor children going to kindergarten. It's mostly in the drama, where only 42 pst. Immigrant women are at work. The Right Party and the Advance Party have cut into several social benefits, both for disabled people and for single dependants, taken the holiday money from the unemployed and thus contributed to more poverty. What I don't understand is why it's so hard to get rid of the cash support, which actually acts as a poverty trap for the most vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1727	The question is almost tempting to return: How could it be that the Workers' Party could not get rid of the cash support when they themselves put in government – in a majority government? It was probably because there was a party in the constellation that wanted to keep it, just as there are different views on the cash support also on the civil side. I think it is exaggerating the importance of the cash support. After all, it is a relatively few years of cash support. The representative of Christoffersen says we're pushing the immigrants in front of us. No, we don't push immigrants in front of us, but if you're going to do something about poverty, social inequality and social differences, you have to look at the causes, and there's no high immigration into the country. Too many immigrants are out of work or work little or too short. This means that to prevent poverty among children, we must ensure that their parents integrate more quickly into work. This is what we do with the Intro work guide, through the creation of rapid tracks and through the measures adopted in the context of the integration message. A good school is what should prevent poverty and ensure that it is not inherited. I want to say to the greatest extent that we don't push the immigrants in front of us, but on the contrary, find good solutions on how to integrate them better, so that they become self-sustaining.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1736	Thanks for the answer. Other ministers have been here earlier today and so far have had the same list of everything that has been done, as the Minister of Labour had now. But we're left with the fact that it doesn't work. It is interesting to see how the proportion of children in poor families also rose sharply during the previous government. Although there are some optimistic signs, we still have record high unemployment rates, a record high number of poor children, falling employment rates and an increasing number of unemployed people who are now losing the right to a daily allowance. If the Right Party and the Forward Party continue in government against assumption, the tax fixation of the richest shall continue. So I wonder, has that idea ever striped the government that a few of them over 20 billion? kr given in tax cuts – mostly to the rich – could rather have been used to make some poor children a little happier?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1745	Without prejudice to my not having detailed knowledge of the Workers' Party's tax profile, I suppose – as I understand it – the Workers' Party is involved in most of it. Large parts of the tax liability are the Workers' Party itself on, through the tax settlement and other. It's true that the inequality went down somewhat under the previous government, but it was due, among other things, to it. the stock exchange values have been digested. There was no poor person who got better from the fact that the paper values on the stock exchange were weathering, even though it might look good on the paper. This government is doing a lot to reduce inequality. In addition to working hard and intensely to transform Norwegian business into employing more people, to get more legs to stand on, we have a huge investment in school, which may be the most important social policy tool we have. We also target other important schemes. Earlier in the Questionnaire I answered the question of free arrangements in the nursery sector, for example. That's the sum of this that makes you bring down the differences. It doesn't always come out of the statistics, but it's going to help us reach those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1759	‘In 2014, the Right and Advance Party Government tendered for the offer of services to people with disabilities. One of the government’s objectives in the tendering process was to increase the number of non-profit actors and social entrepreneurs. Tenders have now been completed in all counties. Has the outcome of the bidding rounds been that today there are several ideal actors and social entrepreneurs providing back-up services to Nav?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1766	I refer you to the answer I gave to the representative Bergstø. The aim of using competition in the provision of clearing and follow-up services is to make use of the labour market competence we have in order for more people to get into work. In a competition, it is the best operators to be awarded the contract. Suppliers must periodically document and demonstrate in practice that they can provide qualitatively good labour market services that deliver results. The acquisitions ensure that different supplier and competence environments can compete on equal terms and that the grants granted are within State aid law. In the event of such competition, the price agreed on is a legal grant. The result of competition is a greater diversity of suppliers and environments of competence. The aim was not only to facilitate ideal actors; good private providers should also be allowed to do so. Half of the agreements have been concluded with reintroduction and growth companies. Agreements have also been concluded with non-profit suppliers, although the number of non-profit suppliers has been reduced as fewer suppliers have become total. Among the ideals, agreements have been concluded with the Blue Cross, Adaptor, the Church's Bymition and Fossheim Workshops, and regional departments of Frtex have won tenders in several counties. Social contractors have participated in the tendering procedure to a small extent and have not reached it. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has commissioned Proba to evaluate the implementation of the new clarification and follow-up measures. There is an interim report on the way in which the Employment and Welfare Act has designed competition in order to achieve simplification, diversity in the supply market and a good offer to users. The main conclusion is that the Employment and Welfare Act has well designed the acquisitions. The evaluation shows that the quality objective was considered to be very important, and this was also well achieved in the procurement process. Among other things, quality was weighted above the price in the award criteria and clear targets have been set for the results to be achieved. Long-term contracts were also concluded to ensure economic predictability for suppliers. The Government has a cooperation agreement with non-profit and non-profit organisations and KS, where regular dialogue meetings are held.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1779	I heard that answer to other people's questions. I asked a very brief question, whether it has become today several ideal actors and social entrepreneurs who provide back services to Nav. Governments don't answer that. It means, in my experience, that it's gotten fewer. The purpose of the outsourcing was greater diversity, and some thought that the government with it meant more and more emphasis on local anchoring of those doing the job – and more ideals. What has become the result, as I understand it from the Council of State answers, is fewer with local anchoring in the counties and cities – fewer ideals. My question is then: is this a result that the government is now going to change in further work, or is it a development that is seen as natural when this competitive and tender system has been introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1784	I answered the question in my main answer, I can repeat it. I said that agreements have also been concluded with non-profit suppliers, although the number of non-profit suppliers has been reduced as fewer suppliers have been in total. And then I mentioned who we've agreed with. As I also said to the representative Bergstø, we wanted ideal suppliers and social suppliers to enter this market, but then it turns out that the number that has submitted tenders has been few, and fewer have won. Ideally, one would wish that there were several who had submitted tenders, and that several had won, but it has proved not to be the reality. An explanation of the absence of new entrants may be that it has been difficult for many of them to provide their services. I hope that more people want to get into the market, that more of the little ones might go together, but it's up to them to consider what to do. Now we're going to keep evaluating, there's going to be an interim report a little bit later. So far, this seems to have been a successful process.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1797	At least we agree that it has become less ideal. When the Labour and Social Committee visited Buskerud and met the Church's Bymition, it was unisoned that this would lead to more non-profit organisations, because the non-profit organisations know the conditions, they have their own permanent employees who have professional competence and remain in the organisation. So we feel that the outsourcing leads to greater uncertainty, and that companies hire seafaring businessmen instead of owning their own employees to do a business job for the company that is being offered. We're about to get, in this field too, a development where re-introduction becomes a store, it's going to be a business idea to make money. Is it okay that this development continues?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1802	As I said in my previous answer, there may be various reasons why non-profit actors have not submitted offers. Some people have said that they think they're too small, that they don't have enough muscles to do it. As I said in my previous answer, I hope that several people consider joining forces to submit offers. However, it is a bit up to the ideal actors themselves to decide whether to submit tenders, and to design the tender documents, or not. I'm busy letting more people go. In the past, it has been difficult, not to say impossible, to enter this market. We are concerned that more people will escape, that there will be innovation and development in this area as well. But we see that the ordinary labour market has also become a more common and more common action arena. There may be some reason why this market is now changing. From the first interim report it looks like the process has been good, and then it remains to see if the quality has been as good as it intended. I think and hope so, because it's users' needs and interests that must weigh most heavily on everything we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1810	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture: ‘The rich are getting richer, and there are more poor children on the Right and the Advance Party guard. About 100,000 children experience a daily life in which their parents have a persistent low income and have to turn every penny. For these families, it is a major challenge to pay the training fee, when equipment is to be purchased, or when all the other children are to be included in the tournament. The government has promised these children that they will be able to participate in at least one leisure activity. How does the Council of State ensure that the promise is actually made to families?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1818	Voluntary organisations in the field of sport and culture are responsible for the main recreational activities of children and young people. Participation opens up experiences, mastering, friends and belongings. Participation in leisure activities has a significant positive impact on the lives and development of children and young people. Therefore, combating child poverty is important for this government. In the government’s ‘Children living in poverty’ strategy, we give priority to measures to enable all children and young people to participate in leisure activities together with peers where they live. The government follows up by strengthening schemes and providing good framework conditions so as to create low-threshold activity offers for participation. In addition to strengthening the general arrangements for volunteering, the Ministry of Culture has a number of grant schemes which help to strengthen participation and to keep costs down, clubs and organisations. It's e.g. support for measures to combat child poverty. The order is 10 million. kr and goes to projects that can help children and young people from low-income families to participate in organised leisure activities. These are the so-called LAM funds, which have doubled since 2013 and are now at 337 million. kr. There are funds that go directly to the sports clubs to keep costs down, especially for those with low incomes, so it benefits them. We also have inclusion in sports teams, another system that helps to get everyone along. This plan has increased by 6 million. kr since 2013. We have grants for outdoor activities for children and young people, we have Free Fund for children and young people. So there's never been any more effort to prevent children from experiencing alienation as a result of their parents' poor economy than what we're doing now. I'm very happy about that. But then I also have to say that this isn't just about money, it's about priorities, it's about understanding, knowing and understanding what having parents with low income means for children's experience of childhood. For this reason, authorities, managers, trainers, parents – all – need to play together to keep standards to a sober level. In particular, children and young people must be involved, take into account and involve those who are not invited, offer to go to training if there are parents who do not have a car, borrow equipment – contribute where possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1830	There is no doubt about the importance of participating in meaningful activities and what it does for individuals and for society. Not having the opportunity to participate — not having the opportunity to participate in training or leisure activities — does something about self-esteem, and it is really a serious matter when we read about children who are not allowed to join in when the others have their leisure activities. What the Council of State refers to is grant schemes where we see that there are more applications now than before being rejected. When the council refers to an arrangement, it's strange that she doesn't give priority to putting money in that pot. Why is it that the Council of State does not follow up on the good intentions, nor on the ambitions, to strengthen the grant schemes when she herself shows that it is perhaps the most effective measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1836	There is no simple answer to this. When I sat and Googled ‘child poverty’ yesterday, there was a quick look-up from 2013. It was former Prime Minister Torbjørn Jagland who went out. The title was: «More poor with red-green government». The child poverty in Norway had increased from the red-green government offices, and Torbjørn Jagland criticized the Labour Party and the government for lack of action against poverty. It shows that there is no quick fix. It's not just about money. It's about, as I said in my first answer, that we all have to contribute to each of our teams to help. But together with the cooperation parties, we have increased the national grant scheme against child poverty to a historically high level of 193 million. kr. It has never been higher before, and it allows more children and young people to participate in leisure activities and holidays. Therefore, there has never been such a strengthening in this field as what we now see under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1843	We were very concerned about the development of the proportion of poor children under the red-green government, and we did what we could to help counteract increased differences. We did, while under this government we see that the proportion of poor children increases from 8.6 pst. in 2013 to 10 pst. Now. We see that the differences increase more than ever with the government's tax arrangements. With the tools available to the Minister of Culture, we also see that more expenditure is being made on volunteering by having a large backlog on facilities, the reduction in VAT compensation is increasing year by year during this government, and that is unpredictable in terms of the VAT compensation scheme for sports facilities. All of this leads to unforeseeable but also increased expenditure on sport. Why is it that the Council of State is not concerned about doing its job in those areas where she actually has a responsibility, which can help set sport free and reduce costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1848	I think I have to correct the representative Grande a little bit. Never before has so much been given to Norwegian sport. Never has it been given more to build sports facilities around the country. Never has so much been given to help children from poor families. As former Prime Minister Jagland was concerned about the last time the Labour Party was in government: after eight years of government, there were 15 000 more poor children in Norway. I also think the Workers' Party should learn that this is difficult. That's why you have to work systematically. It's not just about money. It is also about getting parents to work and about conversion. That's why some of the most important government does, to get these parents and families to work so they get income to lay the foundation for a good upbringing for their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1856	I have asked the Minister of Justice and Security: ‘The Joint Police Association has strongly warned against dividing the Inland police districts into only three holdings, which could lead to the centralisation of police resources. A majority of the opinions of municipalities, regional councils and police district leaders want five holdings in the Inland. Does the Council of State consider that the Joint Association of Police, Police District and Municipalities and Regional Councils of Hedmark and Oppland to be adequately listened to?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1863	Let me first clarify what a geographical holding is. A geographical holding comprises a geographical area in a police district responsible for police duties in this geographical area. Geographical holdings may include several service units and locations, and most of the service production and public contact will be maintained at the service unit of the geographical holding. The police service in the Inland Police District is being resolved and delivered locally to the Länsmann and Police Station districts with their offices. In the Inland Police District, as reported by the Ministry, local negotiations have been conducted with the employee organisations on the division of the number of geographical holdings in the police district. The Chief of Police has informed that a summary of opinions concerning proposals for the geographical holding structure of the Inland Police District was submitted to the negotiating meeting in the Inland Police District as one of several basic documents. Several municipalities, regional councils, employee organisations and parts of the management group in the Inland police district have not rejected the justification for three geographical units and that there were good reasons both for a solution of three and five geographical holdings. The police officer points out that, in an organisation in the Inland Police District with three geographical holdings, he will facilitate a better, appropriate watch and alert system, preventive service and public contact. The geographical holdings have the overall responsibility for managing and coordinating the resources of the relevant service units with their service locations in the Inland Police District. The three geographical holdings will be large enough to have a good professional environment and point competence, including a good and robust research environment. Moreover, one of the three geographical holdings will be responsible for the border tasks of the police district. The Inland Police Master justifies a division into three geographical holdings that the best way to meet the requirements set by the Police Directorate for geographical holdings, including the robust professional environment. A division into three geographical holdings will, in the opinion of the police chief, be a forward-looking organisation that also facilitates the creation of good, common culture, which brings with it the best from the three old police districts – Hedmark, Gudbrandsdal and West Uppland – to new Inland police districts. I trust the Chief of Police's assessment of what is the best professional solution for delivering good police services in the district.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1876	In their letter of assignment from the Police Directorate to the local police officers, they have been responsible for local involvement and the geographical holdings are to be determined. At the meeting at Maihaugen in December 2016, Breke already concluded that he entered three geographical holdings – before the hearings and recordings came. So it seemed like the concession was drawn in advance. My question is, when the Council of State has gone for the three units: What advantages does the Council of State see that you have to have holdings where the distance is 4.5 hours of driving, which it takes from Kongswinger in the south to Røros and Tynset in the north – it's 340 km? It is a huge geographical area from South Hedmark to North Hedmark. What common challenges do the mountain region have with Kongswinger and with the Gardermoen region? What kind of common challenges are they facing, and how are they to be better organised into one unit instead of two?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1883	I understand that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, might prefer to see the Stortinget sitting here and detailed and adopting a structure at all levels. As the Council of State and my department, I have to rely on the professional assessments that are actually done locally and in consultation with the interested parties. Here, from the feedback I get from the Inland Police District, it's been a process in which you're involved, you've listened. Then it has to be cut through at some point and made some decisions. And then it's about having a size that takes care of the concerns and objectives of the police reform, which is especially about having strong professional environments that can provide good services and solve complicated crime, and I base those assessments on the fact that the police chief has done well. I hope that the Storting doesn't see it as its task to regulate in detail everything here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1888	In Norway, we live in a government, and that is a very good method of governance. What was referred to here as involvement: it is clear that the police officers are given all power in a way – that is, the officials and bureaucrats are given all power, and the elected representatives are not authorized. The local hearings have been opposed, the local elected representatives have been opposed, the Regional Council has been opposed, the police staff and members of the Police Union have been opposed to the organisation that has been made, but nevertheless it is the same conclusion that was drawn by the police officers before the process, which was drawn when it ended. There may have been more of a process to make visible that you have ‘involvement’. Is the Council satisfied that there should be only such skin processes that do not really involve real involvement? And finally, what are the advantages of what the Council of State sees, for example. Do you know that a police district is going from Stange in the south to Dovre in the north? What common challenges do we have in this area? Seventeenth and last, it is the Council of State that is responsible for the division when it comes to the creation of such giant districts that have totally different challenges. But it's very exciting if the Council of State sees that they have some common denominators that can make the police work better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1897	It is the same common denominator across the country, namely that the police have to solve crime, the police have to detect and prevent crime. In fact, it's about the fact that the police are able to deliver good services, and it's about the quality of services. It's about what you use policemen and women for: are you going to use them in administration, or are you going to use them to have good services out there? Do we need a lot of patrols out there? At least I want us to prioritize police force out there, police force out in the districts, so that the police can get on the plate and solve a situation when it occurs, and show good prevention, which creates security in the community. So it's not necessarily about having as many geographical holdings as possible. It's about having good police force out there, an operational, visible police that comes on the plate and acts when it's necessary. That's what the police reform does.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1908	‘Some of the conclusions of the report of the Advocate General on the quality of investigation and prosecution in mishandling and electoral matters are that ensuring evidence in the initial phase and the use of research plans can be improved. The police also need to improve the use of audio recordings, and it is pointed out that they can make greater use of coercive measures. In summary, one conclusion might be that the investigation of these matters is not good enough. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the police address these challenges immediately?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1915	Combating abuse and rape is a high priority both for me as Minister of Justice and for the government. There are today many activities to meet the challenge in this area. The high-quality investigation of the police into rape and abuse cases by the National Advocates of the State shall be used in the prosecution of the police's criminal proceedings. Kripos’ 2015 evaluation report highlighted the quality and effectiveness of police investigation into sexual offences, the greater police districts with better organisation provide quality and effectiveness in the investigation. The near-police reform is precisely designed to facilitate a wider investigation environment and specialised competence, including in abuse cases and for rape. Under the direction of the Directorate of Police, the action plan for lifting the field of investigation is under implementation, with common good quality investigation procedures. The letter of entrustment to the POD provides clear indications of the quality and effectiveness of criminal proceedings against rape and abuse. Reverse violence alarm and restraining order, including the follow-up of crimes, shall be given priority in all police districts. I have full confidence that the police are taking the challenge seriously, and I assume that the work to raise the quality of this field will be continued. The state lawyers will contribute to the results in dialogue with the individual police chief. And let me add: it's important to see, as the representative's party, in the past, at least, has pointed towards, the need to implement the reform we're in the police force, which is going to have an effect on these kinds of issues. It is about creating more police force and better investigation, which identifies the type of crime that should be a high priority to combat. Rape is high on the agenda, I can promise the representative. It is high on the agenda to combat what is a type of crime that unfortunately, despite the fact that most other forms of crime are falling, do not have a positive development.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1928	I am pleased – and believe – that the Council of State is credible in its commitment to rape and assault. We were in favour of the near-police reform, but we gave it a clear content, and it is a serious situation for which the Riksadvokat points out, for which the Council of State is responsible, and for which this government has been responsible for four years. As a follow-up to the action plan of the Stoltenberg Government, efforts were made to improve the work on rape and assault cases, among others. through an action on Stovner. It has proved to be very successful and has given good results. Can the Council of State guarantee that the reorganisation in Oslo police districts will not weaken the work done at Stovner? And what will the Council of State do to ensure knowledge development in all police districts, so that more people can work according to the Stovner model?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1935	I clearly see that an important prerequisite for the reorganisations we are doing is that we need to have better conditions to solve this type of crime in particular. All good, effective tools, ways of doing things, I'm open to – and open to implementing across the line if there's ‘best practice’ that can be used and that can provide learning for other police districts as well. I think that the Oslo police in time will continue to be better equipped to handle rape and assault, and I believe that it will be important also in my further work to ensure that this happens in all police districts throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1940	Concerns have been voiced, including: related to the experience of professional communities in being dissolved, or changed to such an extent that concerns are expressed as to whether or not there are some measures to be taken. So here we have a measure that works well, and I hear the Council of State is positive that any action should be continued, and he's going to use it as a learning venue. Then I wonder: What will the Council of State do to get an overview of concrete measures, measures that the Council of State also says are important, and which he has now said will ensure that he is implemented in the police districts? What measures will he include in the list of well-functioning work against violence and abuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1945	I am listening to the conclusions of the Riksadvokat report. I think it's important to listen, and I think there's a lot of learning points you can take with you. So I know it's demanding when organizations change. I assume that the organisational changes that are taking place will create better conditions for delivering good police services, especially in this area, which are about rape and assault. However, I would also like to look at opportunities for further action and, in the light of the report, there may be other measures to be implemented. I'm not going to conclude on this right now, but I think it's important when you ask for knowledge, that you also follow that knowledge. That's why I want to study this carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1950	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-10.ana.ud551e1964	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
