ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e28	The representative, Jenny Klinge, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e33	On behalf of Marit Arnstad, Geir Pollestad, Kjersti Toppe, Per Olaf Lundtägen, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Liv Signe Navarsete, Ivar Odnes, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Heidi Greni and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the quality and content of the Länsmann offices following the implementation of the police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e38	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e54	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Siv Jensen, Anniken Hauglie and Jon Georg Dale will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Marianne Marthinsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e63	The question goes to the Minister of Finance. Since 2013, unemployment has increased by about 40 pst. There is almost no job creation in the private sector – in fact, there are 17 000 fewer jobs in the private sector now than it was two years ago. Norway was previously at the top of the employment rate, but since 2013 we have been passed by countries such as Sweden, Denmark and Germany. Unfortunately, the government has consistently blocked in its predictions how the Norwegian economy is going to evolve. Time and again, we have served the same lesson that the budgets have been well adapted to the economic situation, and over and over again, we have seen that the growth that we thought would come has been absent. In the budget that we dealt with before Christmas, it's assumed that we're going up to 1.7 pst. growth this year, and a very important prerequisite for that to happen, is that we get a solid growth in exports, but so far we see no sign of it – on the contrary. On Monday, the new SSB figure showed that in 2016 exports were reduced by 10.6 pst. from 2015. The trade surplus, i.e. the difference between exports and imports, fell by 36,3 pst. and now at the lowest level of 17 years. This is the serious thing. This is not just about the petroleum sector. Despite lower interest rates, despite low cost rates, exports from mainland companies are weakened. What we see now is serious, and I just want to ask the finance minister to share his thoughts about the numbers that we got from the SSB this week. Are they weaker than the Minister of Finance expected? What does she think they mean for what kind of expectations we can have about the development of activity and unemployment in the year in which we now live?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e78	I would like to share both numbers and thoughts with the representative Marthinsen, and although the Workers' Party continues its negative mention of developments in the Norwegian economy, I can now present completely fresh figures from the SSB that will be published a little later today. They show that from 2013 to 2016 there have been some 50 000 job losses, i.e. 50 000 fewer people employed in the petroleum-related business. But in the same period, 80,000 new jobs have been created. This means that more jobs have been created net of what has gone away, and of the 80 000, only 20 000 have been created in the public sector. This means that the greatest growth in employment, the greatest growth in the new jobs, comes in the private sector, as this government has stressed repeatedly, is what is needed to bring growth to the Norwegian economy. These are joyous numbers, and they are blending into the image of the slightly greater optimism that is now spreading in the Norwegian business community. We are now receiving ongoing reports from various parts of the business community that indicate that they are looking at the situation more lightly. The regional network of Norway’s Bank reports brighter times, the NHO’s own business barometer reports brighter times. That's good. I think it is too early to lift the flag and cancel the challenges, because there are still challenges, especially in parts of the South and West, but things are going better. I think we should be happy about that. In addition, some of the industries in this country are doing tremendously well. We see strong growth in the tourist industry, with more hotel nights in Norway now than in the previous year. We see that the fishing industry is still setting new export records. There is a lot going in the right direction, and I had hoped that the Workers' Party too was able to enjoy it a little.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e85	The Labour Party is obviously able to enjoy what's going well, and if we now get new figures that show that after seven quarters in a row, where all the job growth has come in the public sector, now looks a little better in parts of the private sector, it's fine – obviously. But it is the Minister of Finance himself who has provided a budget in which we have assumed that we need substantial growth in export figures in order to reach the direct estimates on which we are based in order to get up to 1.7 pst. And it is difficult to see that we are on our way there – with the export figures presented by the SSB on Monday. We have a drop of over 4 pst. in the value of the exports. If we are to be able to replace the loss of petroleum revenues, it is in exports from mainland farms that the growth has to come, and instead of a growth of over 4 pst., as 1.7 pst. growth in total economy requires, now we see a fall at the top of 4 pst. [[The President clubs.]] It would be interesting to hear from the finance minister what she thinks about these numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e90	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e95	I have expressed in many contexts that while we see that it is shining, there is still some uncertainty about tracking in parts of export-related business, which means that some people have held back investments. But at the same time, there's a lot of interesting news. I went to see the Western Pole last week. The fishing industry is now talking about homesourcing instead of ‘outsourcing’, so they want to take jobs home and start producing in a completely different way from what they have done in the past. This suggests that optimism is coming back, and that also means that because we have strengthened the competitiveness of large parts of industry and competitive business, it is now more profitable to take home jobs. Norsk Industrie has talked about the same in different contexts. So yes, it's true that we've been standing and still facing a challenge for the Norwegian economy, that we're going to replace the loss of the hyper return that the oil industry has given us, but these numbers that I'm now presenting from the SSB indicate that we're going in the right direction, and so maybe the Workers' Party can soon stop painting the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e100	It opens for follow-up questions – first Tore Hagebakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e105	As I said, the SSB figures show that the trade surplus fell to the lowest level of 17 years last year. Exports not only concern the oil sector but also the exports from the mainland industry are weakened. The finance minister has long been busy talking about it turning around, but the rise has been waiting. Now we hear the Minister of Finance talking about the brighter times. So there's no doubt: the working party is carved into a trailer of lighter times. We're not trying to blackmail in any way, but we think it's okay to get clarity in the Minister of Finance's assessment here. Therefore, my question is whether she still believes in her own estimates in the budget from this fall, or whether these figures give cause for concern, despite the announcement of brighter times.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e110	The Ministry of Finance provides the best estimates they think they can provide, also based on the fact that there is more uncertainty now than it has been. There is less uncertainty about how we assess developments in the Norwegian economy, but there is more uncertainty in the world around us. It also affects Norway. As a small, open economy that is completely dependent on trading abroad, it means something to us how it goes in the markets we traditionally deal with. So yes, I'm concerned that we're going to get exports back up again, and the prerequisites for that are now right – low interest rates, enhanced competitiveness, moderate wage fixing, and not least all the instruments that the government has used in the budgets. We have now said over three years that we need to stimulate what facilitates growth. That is why we have invested in infrastructure, so we have invested in research, that is why we have invested in knowledge, and that is why we have invested in a competitive tax system. The sum of these instruments will work, and we already see it shining.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e115	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e121	My impression is that the Workers' Party is a supporter of brighter times, but they do not get too fast in 2017. It could have some consequences. I want to go back to what was some of the introduction to the main question, and it was trade. As we know, there's a big forum going on in another country right now. There are probably some of these eight billionaires who are said to own more than half the world. But there is no doubt that globalisation also serves Norway. I understand that the Progress Party is, until further notice, also a member of the EEA Agreement. At the same time, there is much evidence that globalisation has had a good impact in different countries, but that individual countries have not had the power to distribute to the population. How does the Minister of Finance view this aspect?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e130	I fully agree with that. One of Norway's successes is that we have a good time having an open economy and significant trade agreements with the world around us, which means that we get a reserve on our markets. We have also had a broad political agreement that we should have a good policy of distribution that contributes to small differences. We are one of the countries in the world with the least differences. However, developments have been different in, for example: The U.S., is one of the reasons why the residents say so. I believe that we politicians have a responsibility to listen to the citizens and take them seriously. I think that's one of the things that many politicians in other countries now notice, that you haven't been sufficiently concerned about taking into account the entire population. And then you finally get people who say from.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e137	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e142	Of the measures that the Progress Party and the government have taken against unemployment, there are not so many who seem to have worked so far – so we will be glad if there is a new time from today. But after Siv Jensen took over as Minister of Finance, she has increased the fuel taxes, tolls and parking fees – just to name a few. That's not the worst thing for me anyway. The Progress Party has prioritised, is tax-free, but for the richest – without a lot of it having been working on it. When the Centerpartiet was in government, we created 44 000 jobs every year, 75–76 pst. in the private sector. That image has been flipped on the header with Progress Party rule. Now growth has been in the public sector, especially in bureaucracy. The evening post last autumn wrote that the growth in state bureaucracy has escalated – over 1,500, they wrote. Through all reforms, the government centralises state jobs away from the districts. Is the growth of state bureaucracy in the Oslo government and the response of the Progress Party to unemployment, to reduce unemployment in the South West and in Norway else?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e149	Here it was a lot at once, but it would have been an advantage if the representative Navarsete listened to the numbers I just presented. There have thus been 80,000 new jobs created – the large majority of them in the private sector, not in the public sector. With regard to the development of the public sector, the biggest growth has come in the police, hospitals and schools, i.e. in areas where this government opted for us to have more hands at work. We've delivered on that. It is also the case that some taxes have gone up, but overall, this government has reduced taxes by 21 billion. kr. Only in the case of a car, which was occupied by Navarsette, have the total net benefits for the drivers now reached 1.5 billion. kr. So I have nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to caring for the interests of the drivers. It also has a district perspective, recognizing that there are many people in our country who do not have a collective offer to resort to. I believe Navarsete is wrong when she claims that this government centralises. We are committed to managing taxpayers' money in a good way, and I believe that the reforms we have carried out so far... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e154	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e159	There has never been more in the direction of growth and government in order to provide the best incentives for Norwegian industry and industry than in this period: lower taxes on business and jobs, record access to risk capital, historical investment in knowledge, research and technology development. The Left and Cooperation Party did not exactly come to table table when we got power three and a half years ago. We inherited an eight-year industrial policy with red-green rule, which swirled quite unilaterally at the adventurous activity of the oil sector. I would like the Labour Party, the largest party in the previous government, to be somewhat more humble and constructive in view of the challenges posed by the crisis in the oil sector. I believe that this house, and not least Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs, had stood by. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e166	Yes, I agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e171	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e176	And people wonder why it's called: A voice to the left is a voice to the Progress Party. A feature of economic policy to the government over the last three years has been a profile of fiscal policy that has benefited the richest and few others. While people with normal income and low income have received small amounts of money, the richest in the country have received millions. The Minister of Finance has at no time listened to the advice of neither the overwhelming majority of economists in the Norwegian social debate nor the Scheel Committee, who have recommended reducing the tax on income and increasing it accordingly on property in order to gain control of the housing crisis. It could also stimulate more investment in business. Now billions are being tied that could help create new jobs, up in overpriced urban farms in Oslo. Why hasn't the Minister of Finance and the government taken any steps to get control of the housing market and stop gambling with ordinary people's mortgages?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e185	Yes, but this government has. But first let me refute a statement. It is not that the tax relief that this government has given has mainly gone to the rich – that is not right. There is only a small proportion of the tax cuts that have been made to reduce taxes on wealth, the rest have gone to tax reliefs to ordinary people and to business. Some of this I thought SV agreed. As far as housing is concerned, the most important thing we can do is to correct the imbalance between supply and demand in the housing market. It has been built too little, and it has the government SV put in, a significant responsibility that they did not do anything about. Now it's turned around, and that's good. But house taxes are not on my agenda. What we've done, on the other hand, is tightening up parts of the tax system in the case of secondary housing, because we want to get alive some of the speculation that we, among other things, are. has seen developments in Oslo. That was part of what we presented in the new housing loan regulation that was adopted before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e195	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e200	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Just before Christmas came Nav-report 1-2016 «Fatdom and Living Conditions in Norway», which shows that there are increasing differences and more poor people in Norway. The report shows a strong growth in the proportion of low income among lone dependants and also in families with children. The proportion of children in households with persistently low incomes has increased in the last 10 years and now accounts for a total of 92 000 children. We know that there is a lot more unemployment, and we know that over half of these children have immigrant backgrounds. Both integration and work are demanding to succeed in the short term. We all agree that work is the most important measure and the safest way out of poverty. But we also need to provide alternative measures against child poverty for those who are unable to get into work and for those who are temporarily out of work. In the cooperation agreement between the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we agreed to draw up a package of measures aimed at children in poor families. The 'Children living in poverty' strategy is the first of its kind. It contains many good measures, which are largely about limiting the experience of being outside, namely giving these children the opportunity to take leisure activities, etc. Then we also know that the central transfer arrangements for families with children – cash support, child welfare, parental leave, support for adoption, etc. – is essential for these families. It is very important for families with low incomes. As a KrF, I am used to many people wanting to remove the cash support, but now it is also a debate – at least discussing and wanting many parties – to remove the child benefit. My experience is that it's in free play. At least the important thing is that a person has different measures that can take different groups of people living in poverty. My question to the Council of State is: What action does she want to take to ensure that we fight poverty, and especially poverty among children?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e213	There is hardly any area where it is more important to have a high level of attention than to ensure that children and young people grow up safely. Although few children in Norway are living in absolute poverty, which means that there is a complete lack of basic – such as the roof over their heads, food and clothing – we still know that there are too many children and young people growing up under conditions that we do not want them to do. Most of the children — including the representative — grow up in immigrant families. The biggest difference between those who live in poverty and those who don't is whether you're at work or not. Education and health records. Children of low-educated parents who are outside the labour market are more likely to end up there themselves. In other words, social differences are reproduced, and we have to prevent that. At that time, good schooling for the children, early work, free health services and targeted poverty measures are important, and we need to ensure that we include as much as possible in work. As the representative was present, we have put forward our own strategy against child poverty. In order to mention some of the measures: the national grant schemes have been strengthened, more children and young people are now participating in holiday and leisure arrangements, more reasonable childcare facilities and free core time for children in low-income families, important services such as family protection, health centre and school health services have been strengthened. These are good lowthreshold measures, which are just reaching vulnerable children and young people. The follow-up scheme for children of mentally ill and children of drug users has been strengthened. Here the four bourgeois parties stand together. In addition, the government has presented a stepping-up plan for the drug field and a national strategy for housing-social work, including: support for large families of children has been strengthened. In other words, it is not a simple measure that solves this problem, but – on the contrary – the sum of all that we do to include parents in work, give a good school to the children, but also that we have good welfare arrangements that make a good decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e224	Thank you for your thorough reply. As I said, I agree that qualification, education and work are the most important and safest out-of-poverty action, but I would nevertheless claim that the workline has been the main strategy of all governments in recent years. Nevertheless, we see that the number of children growing up in poor families has increased. Therefore, as I pointed out, general arrangements are such as: child welfare is important for many, and especially important for the poorest. I have seen that half of the Right Programme Committee has recommended that child welfare be removed and replaced with support for kindergarten and SFO. It will be most demanding for those who have the least. And then you also know that kindergarten and SFO are not something you get for a very many years, while child-rescue is something you get up to 18 years. Former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch has had excellent quotes about the importance of child welfare, and that is also because more children need to be born in order to cope with future welfare. But what does the Council of State mean? Does she agree with that part of the Programme Committee that wants to eliminate child rights? Or does she want to continue child-responsiveness as a universal system?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e229	I will not foreshadow what the Right National Assembly will adopt in this context. Even I'm a hot defender of child-responsiveness. We'll see what the national meeting will finally adopt. As I was in my main answer, the majority of the children who grow up in low-income families are immigrant children. It shows how important it is to be able to include several of your parents in the job. Norwegian training is important here, and job qualification is important. Among other things, in cooperation with the parties, we have taken an initiative to put in place a fast track for those who are close to the labour market of those who come to our country now. Among other things, we need to: increase the use of wage subsidies. The parties have undertaken to accept those who are coming now and to include them in the job. We have started vocational guidance on reception. It is vital now that those who come to our country get sufficient qualifications and get to work, so that we help more people manage to stand on their own feet and take care of themselves and their families. And once again, that's the sum of what we're doing now to include more in the job and provide qualifications for more, that's going to show that we're going to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e236	It opens for follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e241	I agree with the Council of State that there are many reasons why families live in poverty. That's not a simple answer. In the newspaper today, it's a great story about a mother and a ME-sick boy who's been given a care allowance. It's great, and we're supporting this with care money and the expansion of it. Nevertheless, many treatments last longer than a year. In very many treatments, we know it's best if the kids are allowed to be at home. That's why we've invested together in home hospitals, because we know it's best for the kids. The government's proposal is that wages should go down to 66 pst. after one year. What does the council think of a lone mother who wants to follow her child for longer than the one year, and gets 66 pst. pay, and what does she think the kids will think about being responsible for getting less to walk with, because they want to have mom home in a serious situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e250	There is no doubt that reforming the care scheme is a system that the four parties have put together, both in opposition and now. It is absolutely right that we are now proposing a change where you go down to 66 pst. In other words, this system of sick leave and sick pay is being sidelined. What was important for us to get in place was that much more should be included in the scheme by reducing the disease requirement, we have made it less bureaucratic, more enter the scheme, and the age limit has been extended to 18 years. What we are doing now means that twice as many children enter the scheme, and that the budget also doubles. The matter is now being dealt with in Stortinget, and I hope that it will be widely discussed. The most important thing for us has just been to reform the system, so that more people come in and get it help to be able to care for their sick children at home, than what was possible before.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e255	Lise Christoffersen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e260	Action packages to address poverty are good and good, but unemployment is and will be the main cause of poverty, and so are children with unemployed parents. The vacancy is the highest of more than 20 years. The employment rate has fallen. The social differences have increased. There's too little job creation in the private sector. Many now leave the day-care period and the AAP, with social assistance as their only option. Many disabled people are involuntarily out of work. Youth unemployment is high. The same applies to immigrants. New arrivals must be integrated. When the Labour Party in this situation asked the government what new measures against unemployment are planned in the budget for 2017, the written response from the government was: none. Obviously, the government has no other advice for the poor who need a job than that they have to be more forward-looking. My question then is: is the Government satisfied with the government's results in the fight against poverty and against unemployment during the current ageing period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e267	The most important thing is whether or not the policy produces results. The Minister of Finance has already informed Stortinget in his reply that we are now seeing more jobs created, 80,000 more jobs created. We need to be aware of the situation we have now had in the oil and gas sector – 50 000 jobs have disappeared in two to three years. It is a demanding situation to be able to cope with that decline, but the results now show that jobs are created in the private sector as well. With the package of measures we have adopted in the State budget, and with the state budget as a whole, even more jobs will be created, more companies will have contracts. All the forecasts now show that we're on the right track, but we're not going to lean back in any way. On the contrary, we must also continue to work hard to create even more jobs, because, as the representative also says, there is work that is the main difference between those who live in income poverty and those who do not. Now we also see that the unemployment rate was flat, falling in 14 of the country's counties. I'm glad, even if we're still going to work more.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e273	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e278	Increased child poverty — it concerns the most vulnerable among us. The council says she understands these people's situation, but what's happening is that it's tightening up financially. The transitional support for single parents with children under three years of age has been tightened up, and the government has received support from the Christian People's Party and the Left to put a roof for disabled and need-tested children's supplement of 95 p.m. income before disability. It affects families with many children – that is, those with many children, and how parents had low income before they were pregnant. In the view of the Centre Party, all families must have a minimum income for a decent living, and my question is, Why does the Central Party Council not support the basic view of the need-tested child allowance without thanking people who are disabled and have many children?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e285	There were several questions at once. – The transitional benefit has been changed on several occasions and by changing governments. The main reason for the changes you have made is that you want to strengthen your work line and help your lone mothers get to work. The education requirement has now also been tightened up, but it is still fully possible to take training even while going on transitional assistance. It has been important for this government and the majority of the population to maintain the line of work, that it should pay off to work. That is why the Storting decided that the sum of disability benefits and child allowances should not exceed 95 pst. of previous income. Then there's a three-year transitional arrangement. That transitional arrangement has now been extended for a further two years as part of the budgetary agreement, in order to enable the families concerned to adapt financially. But I stand firm – and I defend – that working will pay off. This means that the sum of social security and social security benefits shall not exceed the income you had in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e292	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e297	Reducing child poverty is not an easy job – well illustrated by the previous government that was going to remove him with a pen stroke, while the fasitite was that the number of poor kids went up by 25 pst. But it does not exempt this government from responsibility. In its first response, the Council of State mentioned some good and very targeted actions that have been carried out. Most of them are free core hours for three-female children in kindergarten, which means that tens of thousands of young people now have cheaper kindergartens. It also includes the strengthening of school services and the strengthening of family protection offices. I guess that's good. What these measures have in common is that they have not been proposed by the government. They have come into place after budgetary conciliation with the Left and Christian People's Party in the Storting. My question is short and good: When does the government itself intend to take initiatives to target measures to reduce child poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e304	As I was in my main response, many of the measures that I mentioned are, as the four bourgeois parties stand together. There is no doubt that budgetary conciliation has also contributed to strengthening the work of the government. So it's by no means an attempt to undermine the efforts of the cooperation parties. On the contrary, I mentioned it in my main answer. The government is concerned, as I also mentioned, that the main difference between those who live in income poverty and those who do not is whether you have a job or not. It is again influenced by whether you have competence and education or not, and the health situation in which you are. This is why the government has a number of measures to get people to work – of course by contributing to the creation of more jobs and to the increased qualification for jobs. That's why we're so concerned about school, that we're going to have a good school and good education for the kids. It is the main measure to prevent the reproduction of social differences. That is why we are concerned that we should provide better health care for those who are struggling. In this context, the escalation plan for the drug field in particular is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e311	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e316	It's pretty interesting to hear the government defend grossly unsocial cuts with the line of work, that it should always pay to work, while they spend almost 300 million dollars. NOK to pay healthy parents for not working. One of the major priorities of this government has been to strengthen cash support, which is a very poor policy both in terms of gender equality and in terms of integration. If you're concerned about what the council talked about instead, getting more parents into work, and then especially parents with immigrant background, it's an advantage not to pay them money to stop using kindergarten. Then not everyone has the luxury that they get paid not to work, because the uninhabited caregivers get cut. Last year, 367 of the poorest families in Norway were deducted from the average of 29 000 kroner — in cuts. It's a completely insane cut that creates poverty and social distress. Why is the government talking with two tongues when they constantly mess around the workline?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e323	As I mentioned in my previous answer, the way in which the child supplement was to be handled was adopted by a majority in Stortinget. The decision was that you should not let the sum of child supplements and disability benefits exceed 95 pst. of previous income. Then a transitional arrangement has been adopted, first by three years, then by two years. There are more than one government that has been concerned about how the child supplements affect social security lock-in, among others. a number of expert committees, which were also set up by the previous government. With regard to the cash support, there is no doubt that lifting it was primarily not the main priority of this government, but through conciliation in the Stortingen, you have chosen to increase it, and I think that is quite right. You talk about the cash support as if it's something you get forever. It is a relatively short period of the child's first year of life that you can receive cash support, and I think it is to live with the fact that some families who then want to choose differently are able to do so by receiving cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e330	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e335	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture. Ulvesaka is about people's security in everyday life. Ulvesaka is about people's ability to use natural resources to create values and jobs, among others. by allowing animals to use grazing resources. But wolfesaka is also about a matter where people around the country now stand up in protest against what they experience as a interlocutory of bureaucracy, legal vocabulary, lacquer shoes, state arrogance and the lack of respect the government has for the wolf decision of the Storting. It went so far that the representatives of the government party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, this winter have demonstrated against their own government in front of the Stortinget. President, there were a lot of good people in the lawn that day! The issue is whether the decisions of the Storting have been taken to follow up the two-part objective: should they be followed up by the government, or not? It would mean having room for both predators and grazing animals. Yesterday, the government, at the Minister for Climate and Environment, gave its say to the Stortinget. It was a little concrete. That was twelve points, but there were twelve points that didn't give any sign that the government would follow up on the big decision. So my question to the Dale Council is, is it that the protection interests have won the internal struggle of the government, and that the Minister of Agriculture has lost?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e349	Robbery policy is undoubtedly one of the main challenges for Norwegian agriculture, for it is quite right as the Centre Party describes it, that many people feel that they cannot exploit natural resources as they have done before. I know farmers who have gone on carnival hunting. It's about looking up their own carcass, taken by predators. It is not just about replacing the economic losses, as is often the case in the political debate. It's the life's work for people who go overboard. I have great respect for the situation that people feel it gives. This means that it is crucial that we actually manage predatory policies in line with the Storting decision. That makes sense to this government, and we've also tried to do that in terms of the licensing of the wolf now. But it's demanding when one of the Law Departments thinks something different than the Ministry of Agriculture and I originally thought: that there was enough room for killing. We're forced to have the law houses we need if we're going to make decisions, and we can't go against it. At the same time, it is crucial, both for the grazing industry and for the interests they are supposed to hold, for people in the districts and not least for those whom the representative Pollestad refers to as the ‘protection interests’, that we actually intend to manage the zone divisions clearly. The Minister for Climate and Environment warned very clearly yesterday: lower threshold for withdrawals, in order to reduce the risk to grazing industries. And then both I and the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment are working on looking at what action spaces we have for quickly, in the short term, and possibly in the longer term, to manage the stock target for wolves that Stortinget has set. The representative Pollestad can feel absolutely certain that I am doing my best to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e358	I note that the answer is rather defensive, that it is quite similar to the government council that Helgesen gave yesterday, and that the government has made this an issue of legal judgement – legal considerations that there are doubts and that open up to a room. The Ministry of Agriculture has concluded that: ‘After the assessment by the LMD, the conditions laid down in the Nature Diversity Act are fulfilled in order to allow the felling of the wolf in the wolf zone.’; [[and Berne Convention]] This was the conclusion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. It's something other than government. Then is my question to the Minister of Agriculture: Does the Minister of Agriculture still believe that the conclusion of the LMD when it comes to legal matters is the right one, or has he now bowed to the government and behind what is the interpretation of the Helgesen Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e370	The representative Pollestad is trying to give the impression that this is something other than what it is. The Ministry of Agriculture's professional assessment was and is that when the damage potential is high enough, there is a potential for killing. It also means this Minister for Agriculture, as the Minister for Climate and Environment thinks so. The Ministry of Climate and Environment’s professional assessment was that there was insufficient potential for killing to be given. This means that there are two different assessments of the extent of the damage potential. It means how one can use the home as the country's legislative assembly, the Stortinget, has agreed. In this situation, we have asked the Law Department how to understand this law, when there are actually two different assessments of the damage potential and of the interpretation of the law in the specific cases. The law departments, which are our foremost legal experts, have concluded what they have done. Then the government must follow this up until one changes the law, so that one can follow the decision of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e375	There will be follow-up questions – first Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e380	The Minister of Agriculture sees him as wanting more than six wolves a year. It is necessary to implement government policies. What has been the reason for having so many wolves in the year is that we have a genetically unique southern Scandinavian wolf population. Already in the 1990s, World Wolf Organization – I think they're hot – canceled that some of these genetic special wolf populations we didn't have in South Scandinavia. The next reason was the Berne Convention. My question is very simple and precise: What paragraph of the Berne Convention obliges Norway to have breeding wolves in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e387	One point: I'm not sure about every representative from Lundtigen, I'm too much of a six-dollar wolf in Norway. The government proposed for Stortinget an interval of five to eight. Five is as far as I know less than six, but we can probably have a discussion about that. The important thing is that the Stortinget has decided that we're going to have a wolf population in Norway. He will be administered after the Berne Convention. That means that the Berne Convention commits us to a management, given the decision to have a wolf population. That's the main background that we have in this case come to what I want to mention as a demanding situation. Because it was the government's ambition to manage the stock target that the Stortinget has set, with the legal assessment that we do not now have sufficient legal basis for it, given the assessment of the damage potential that the Law Department has done. It's demanding, but we're trying to find solutions that make us come more in harmony with the goal Stortinget has set.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e394	Knut Storberget – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e399	In fact, I am committed to being a follower of the Minister of Agriculture's arrangements for this. He has – as has been said – concluded that, according to the Ministry of Agriculture’s assessment, the conditions of the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention are met in order to allow the felling of wolves in revir within the wolf zone. I understood the answer that you stand by it in the Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture, which knows the industry well, must be the most professional department to assess the potential for damage. And I'll give you credit for standing by it. My question is then: does the Minister of Agriculture have ambitions that the licence agreement recently adopted in the field of wild game can actually be implemented in winter, and will he take initiative in the government to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e408	I have a lot of clear ambitions. The one thing is as fast as possible to manage the wolf population in line with the stock target Stortinget has set. It is correct, as the representative Storberget says, that the professional assessment given by the Ministry of Agriculture is on my side. It's a purely professional assessment, it's not influenced by me, but I still think she's a good reason. At the same time, our leading lawyers in the Law Department, who are probably well aware of the representative of Storberget, assess the importance of this change. If we recognize it – as the State Councillor Helgesen was in yesterday – we also know that there are several holding points that indicate that if it were to be given birthrights now, on a licence agreement, the court would probably have given the postponement effect. So the question is, what is it that we're actually achieving? I'm not sure if that's possible. But both I and the State Council Helgesen work closely to see what room we have for action we have in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e415	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e420	When a reader consults newspapers and hears the Council of State, there is no doubt that wolf policy is a difficult matter in Norway. We want a different policy from the government, where we take out more wolves, and therefore we were the proponents of a settlement that we believe should be fulfilled. But one of the things that also worries me is that when spring comes and there are no more wolves taken out, there will also be a lot more puppies born. We who follow animal life closely know that when new puppies are born, the juvenile puppies are hunted, and these young people will seek their own territory. It's often those who are on the strip, who have the greatest potential for damage, it's those who take the most sheep or pure and will be a big challenge. There's also some of the reasons for the Christian People's Party because we're behind the deal. We shall take responsibility for the Scandinavian wolf tribe, but at the same time the wolf population shall be taxed as a second game once the stock target has been reached. My question to the Council of State is: Is he afraid of that effect, and does he believe that enough wolves will be shot to avoid that effect next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e430	There is no doubt that the damage potential of the wolf in general is not greatest in the wolf sole for grazing animals, but in the periphery and in the outside area, where animals are taken by stripping wolves. There, Helgesen has warned us that we need to introduce more new measures and make new assessments of how effective we can hunt, radiolabelling that means that we know where the animals are when they are searching for grazing areas, clearer steps to simplify decision-making processes and assess whether we can set the threshold for harvesting even lower in order to prevent loss of grazing animals. I think it's important that we do well, completely independent of this licensing case. Because it's actually about making sure that the animals that pose the greatest threat to grazing, for Norwegian farmers, for Norwegian agriculture, are taken out before they claim to do harm, because we see that the potential actually arises. This means that the administration will have clear expectations about the upcoming grazing season.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e435	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e440	The party of progress likes to be on the team with most people. In this way, I can be pleased with the fact that an opinion poll in Hamar Arbeiderblad yesterday showed that most people, almost certainly 76 pst., in Hedmark are positive to the wolf in Norwegian nature. So here the government is in line with the people. What I want to ask is whether one has been involved in the various assessments made by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Law Department. Here the Minister of Agriculture says that one disagrees on the potential for damage. Then my question is, "Is this the inconsistency fact, or is that the kiss?" Is it true that the Ministry of Agriculture believes that there is a greater potential for harm to grazing animals than the Law Department has foreseen? Or is it such that the Ministry of Agriculture believes that the term ‘damage potential’ can be passed on, for example. hunting interest? Because yesterday the climate minister said clearly that one cannot count into that overstatement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e447	To begin with, our assessment is that the risk of damage to the wolf's wolf's revir in the wolf's son and the distribution that normally occurs once a year if it has been coaled, suggests that the damage potential is greater than that to which the law department has assessed it, except for the wolf'sona – mainly outside the wolf's son. But we also have to stick to the assessment that the Law Department has made, and I do. At the same time, there are many who are adherents of the wolf also in Hedmark, but we have to bear in mind that what is broken in this – and it has to be careful to substantiate – is that it is based on the fact that we are able to manage the stock of the Stortinget. That's what's our challenge now. What's government's challenge now is that it's going to be challenging if we actually do it, but people can feel confident that the government is doing what they can to manage the goal, which also promotes the legitimacy of the predatory policy that the Storting has chosen to pursue, including in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e452	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e457	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. In a few months' time, the State Council shall submit the 2017 Perspective Communication. The technological shift, the fall in oil prices, population changes, and climate and environmental challenges mean that we have to consider new ways to ensure that Norway is at least as well a welfare society in 20–30 years. In the last year, the government has organised four open seminars on issues such as future welfare societies, challenges arising from ageing, immigration and integration, and how the Norwegian economy can meet a lower oil price. This is good! On the other hand, the government has not organised a corresponding seminar on what will affect the Norwegian economy as much as possible in the coming years: the impact on the economy of climate and environmental challenges and international agreements Norway has committed itself to when it applies to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In the context of the management of the Perspectives Communication four years ago, all parties – apart from the Progress Party – underlined that the climate challenges, together with an increasing loss of biological deficiency, represent a serious challenge to our life base. I have recorded that there is still a running seminar in the party to the Council of State and in the Storing Group that a research and knowledge or belief should be taken into account in climate policy. So the question to the Minister of Finance is: What challenges does she face for the Norwegian economy as a result of the climate challenges, and after three years in government, has the Minister of Finance got a different perspective in this area than her party had four years ago, and as part of the party still has?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e470	There are probably several parties that sometimes have seminars in their own ranks. It may not be entirely unknown to the representative of Mr Breivik either. However, it is absolutely right that the government also works with a comprehensive chapter on climate. It is true that we have not had our own seminar on this, but I have had a meeting with the Climate Council – a separate recording meeting related to the climate chapter and the design of it in the context of the development of the perspective communication. So I can assure Mr Breivik that the government is taking this very seriously. My ambition is to provide a perspective message on behalf of the government. It points to the challenges facing the Norwegian economy as a result of the transition we are now in the middle of. The fact that the oil price shock has reinforced a trend in the oil-related industry that we have long known to be coming gives this greater attention in the perspective notification. It's about the loss of the big return that we've been waiting to get from the oil sector, not being able to replace it by other individual industries. This means that we need to facilitate the creation of new jobs across the private sector. That is the prerequisite for maintaining a good welfare society in the long run. We agree that we should. I am pleased that during these years we have found good solutions between the four parties, which are now helping to get us through the difficult times in particular in the South and West. There are points of light coming, but the challenges of conversion are great. This is about getting productivity growth up. It's about running the public sector more efficiently than we've done so far. It's about targeting our welfare systems against those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e479	Thanks for the answer. It is not surprising that the Minister of Finance refers to the oil sector with a certain pressure, because she had a debate on the press in the class struggle earlier in the week entitled 'Hey oil!'. Today I am recording that the Minister of Oil and Energy is out with a play where he will quickly open up for extraction outside the Lofoten, the West and Senja. In view of less than the two-degree target, it is reasonable that the petroleum industry must have at least the possible CO 2 pressure and be perceived as the purest in the world in order to be able to claim itself on a market that will necessarily require less oil and gas than today. The question is therefore: does the Council of State see that allowing oil activity in an area that not only represents invaluable renewable values but is also a classic world wide nature conservation icon can actually be in the disfavor of an industry in which future sleeps that a person is perceived as being resilient and engrossed in natural values, and that this is also a perspective that must be addressed in the perspective message?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e491	The government is going to devote a lot of space also to what we think development will be for the oil industry in the future. Let me be quite clear that we are going to enjoy oil activity in Norway for many years to come. So the light hasn't turned off. But the speed of the industry is going to be less than we've been used to, and the 'input' that it gives to the Norwegian economy is going to be less than what we expect. However, the industry’s contribution to both high incomes, employment and related industry and industry is beyond doubt. And I think that is necessary given the energy demand that the world is going to have in the foreseeable future. Then Norwegian gas is a good contribution, to mention something. This does not mean that we should not continue to work on the development of green technologies and the commitment to renewables, which we are doing well in the cooperation between the four parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e496	There will be follow-up questions – first Iselin Nybø.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e501	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. No matter how much we believe or not believe that the Norwegian oil and gas industry will lead in 20 to 30 years, there is no doubt that the decline we have seen in the oil crisis has led to a lasting change in employment and jobs, not least in the West. This applies to those directly employed in oil, but also to those indirectly affected, by a fall in demand and an insecurity of jobs. From a long-term perspective, it is important that all those who have become unemployed and who have soon left the job for two years come to work as soon as possible. Consequences can quickly become permanent exclusion and increased public costs. I believe that we must have a non-prejudiced review of the instruments available. Rules that result in the loss of performance if additional education is needed are one such area for which the Council of State is responsible. So the question is: will the Council of State – in the context of the perspective communication – address a full review of the instruments in order to get the unemployed back to work quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e509	In the past, with the support of Stortinget, I have implemented several changes in the day-to-day pay legislation, for example, precisely in order to be able to help more of those who lose their jobs can get the necessary training and additional training in order to get on with them. We made seven changes to the day-to-day pay legislation last year, which was based on both the possibility for the beneficiaries to take part in education, the possibility for the beneficiaries to take Norwegian training and the possibility of combining day-to-day pay with the establishment of their own business. We now see that there are several – twice as many this year as last year – who are going on a daily allowance and establishing a business. I'm open to make further changes if it turns out to be necessary. It's obvious that when we're talking about transition, we're talking about the seventh and last time about the transformation of people -- people need other skills to meet new needs and opportunities out in business and the new working life that we're now seeing. So I'm open to it. Although I don't have any concrete suggestions right now, it's going to come more.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e514	Truls Wickholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e519	The perspective message will give us a clue as to what will be the major challenges in the future, and give us some advice on how we can do the best to equip ourselves to meet them. We have seen that Norway has been well equipped to withstand major unforeseen events such as the financial crisis and oil price falls. Among other things, an important factor is: have been a highly educated population who have been resilient. Another very important factor is the high level of organisation with large nationwide associations on both the employer and employee sides. The ability of the parties to cooperate, to moderate and to discipline, inter alia: through the frontal model, Norway has achieved better than many other countries that have met the same challenges as us. Nevertheless, this government has done little to strengthen the degree of organisation of Norwegian work. Among other things, the deduction from the union quota has been effectively cut. Does Jensen agree that the degree of organisation and well-organised work will be crucial in the future as well? And in that case, how does the Council of State think that this can best be given a central place in the perspective message?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e526	I am very pleased that there are great expectations in Stortinget for the perspective announcement. It will arrive on 31 March, and I hope that the representative, Mr Wickholm and others, will celebrate the corresponding interest when it arrives. Here we're going to present many challenging features for the Norwegian economy in the future, and we're going to point out what the government is looking at to realize the challenges we're facing. It means, of course, that, in addition to the climate, which I was asked about initially, it will be a mention of welfare societies, of developments in public administration, inequality – many of the issues that dominate the public debate. So I think that the representative of Wickholm would be happy to see the perspective message coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e531	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e536	The Minister of Finance's answer to the representative, Wickholm, bears the mark of someone who may not be very personally involved in the question, namely a safe working life with a high level of organisation. We could say the same thing about climate. There is no finance minister known to put a lot of emphasis on when she heads her party, the Progress Party. Therefore, my question is whether there is any reason to trust that the Minister of Finance will give priority to a field where there is any doubt as to whether she really believes at all. Does the Minister of Finance believe in severe man-made climate change? And if for the first time in the Storting is ready to answer a completely unequivocal yes to that, will she use the force to defeat the rebels in her own party who do not share this conviction?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e541	I think the Minister of Finance will use his time to explain what this government is doing in the climate field. There's nothing to be ashamed of. We have delivered more in collaboration with the Christian People's Party and the Left than the SV did in the eight years they were in government. I believe that we have every reason to be proud of the efforts we make. We use many different instruments to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Much of what we've done in the transport sector, we're now starting to work. We're getting a much faster renewal of the car park, which is one of the most central areas we can actually do something about to quickly bring down the greenhouse gas emissions. It's in stark contrast to what the previous government did, which went out and recommended people to buy diesel cars. So a few years later, the same parties, right in Oslo City Council, are going in to punish the same drivers who believed in the promises of the previous government. So I think SV might be going a little cautiously in the doors, all the time we're going to change the one-time charge, so we're going to get the greenhouse gas emissions down.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e546	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e551	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Differences in power and wealth are increasing in Norway, and government policy strengthens it. The economic elite receives gifts from the Right Party Government. At the same time, we have 92 000 poor children in Norway. Poor dependants and chroniclers get petty cuts like greetings from the government. Many of those who serve at least in the labour market have now experienced a series of years without real wages growth, and young and low-paid losers in a housing market characterized by speculation and wanting to grow prices. The central statistical agency recently provided figures showing that prices rose by 3.6 pst. in 2016. At the same time, the old age pension rose by less than this. According to the Pensioners Association, the purchasing power of the old-age pension was reduced by 1.9 pst. in 2016. For a pension of NOK 250000, this is NOK 4 750. According to Nav's calculations, the entire 84 pst lost. by pensioners purchasing power in 2016. The big group that lost the most was the 300,000 single pensioners who have something more than the minimum pension. This government has given more to married and cohabiting pensioners, but when we look at the distribution effect of the policy, we see that in sum they have given the most to people who have had it financially, while lonely and pensioners who have low social security pensions come out badly. Thousands lose their purchasing power and get less of a living with this government's policy, while at the same time putting a record in billionaires, and the government gives them large sums of money at the top. Why has the government not done anything to prevent the elderly with low pensions from losing purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e564	There was a lot here. Firstly, inequalities have increased over many years. They have increased since 2009, and much of the cause of inequalities is high immigration into Norway. That is why the measures we are taking against inequality must also be based on them. It's about education and qualification, it's about jobs, and it's about good welfare services for those who need it. Nor is it the case that the main effort of this government is tax-free for the rich. The main actions of this government are knowledge, education and infrastructure. With regard to the purchasing power of pensioners, a cross-political majority in the Stortinget, minus SV and the Progress Party, decided that pensions should be regulated on the basis of actual wage growth minus 0,75 pst. When you look at this way of regulating, you see that the pensioners have come out much better with that way of calculating, than with the alternative ways of calculating. But we now have some years when wage trends are poor for the workers, and then they are reflected in the development of pensions. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that, in parallel, this government has taken up more money for pensioners, both by improving pensions for married and cohabiting persons, by raising pensions for single and married minimum pensioners, and also by tax relief for pensioners. As the representative is certainly aware, and as we have also shown in a big message we presented to the Stortinget, the income trends of pensioners have been very positive in the last ten years. Much of this is, of course, due to the pension reform, that you should be able to take out a pension while still working, but there are also several other reasons. I'm glad, because many of the pensioners have had a bad economy, but now we see that they've had a significantly better economy in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e577	Since the government has decided that the social security settlement should not now be presented as a matter of its own in the spring, but dealt with in the context of the state budget, I have a follow-up question to the Minister of Finance. It is true that many of the elderly have had a good income development, but my question was, after all, about those with low social security pensions that are now less viable. The government has done nothing to prevent it. For example, a floor could be introduced to prevent a negative trend in purchasing power. The Progress Party has chosen not to do so. In fact, the Christian People's Party received something extra to the minimum pensioners in the context of the year's budget. That's good, but the government is going in to keep underregulation, which means that many of the older people who have the worst economy get less living off. There must be a special-class lifting break after many years with Siv Jensen as the spokesperson for the case of the elderly in Norway. Why in the world does the Minister of Finance stand for a policy that makes many older people with low pensions poorer on her guard?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e585	The most important promise I made on behalf of the Advance Party before the 2013 elections, which we have brought into the government platform and delivered on, is to do something about the curtailment of the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners. We have delivered that, and that promise alone has a price tag of 2.7 billion. kr. 650 000 pensioners have been strengthened because we have delivered on this promise. That really means about $4,000 per pensioner. I believe that there is reason to be quite satisfied with that. In addition, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have increased the minimum pension for single age pensioners by NOK 4000. It's actually a handshake to those pensioners who have the least. So I believe that this government has nothing to be ashamed of, all the time we are ruling on the basis of a pension settlement made before this government joined. It is quite right that the Minister of Labour said – SV and the Progress Party disagreed with it, but both the SV and the Progress Party have dealt with a settlement in the governments in which they have been sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e590	It opens for follow-up questions - first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e595	This is good double communication. One boasts of giving a gift package to the pensioners, while at the same time ensuring that eight out of ten pensioners are reduced in purchasing power. But we also have other examples of this double communication from the Progress Party. On the weekend, for example, the Minister of Finance of Dagbladet stated his own lucrative golden pension: "It is totally unmusical that politicians at Stortinget should sit and give themselves such good conditions." The finance minister said she was ashamed of her own pension, and she should be – I fully agree. But every time SV has put forward proposals on this matter, Siv Jensen and the Progress Party have voted against tightening up the lucrative pension schemes, both in 2000 and 2011. This has been done by Siv Jensen and the Progress Party on each round – defending their own golden pension. What thoughts does the Minister of Finance think they are doing, all the pensioners who have lost money at the Progress Party in government, while the Minister of Finance himself has protected his golden pension at every crossroad in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e604	I am very pleased with the results that this government delivers, also to the pensioners. So it's quite right, as the Minister of Labour also said, we've had a wage trend in the last couple of years that makes purchasing power development weaker for everyone. This has resulted from the severe economic development in Norway. Both employees and pensioners have experienced the effect of this. Therefore, it has been even more important for me to deliver at the point in the platform that is about the curtailment of the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners. As I said – that means that every one of the 650,000 pensioners who enjoy it has increased their pension by NOK 4000. In addition, there has been a similar increase for single-age pensioners. So all in all, we've strengthened the terms of the pensioners quite a lot. At the top of it comes reductions in taxes, which have also been added to pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e611	Lise Christoffersen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e616	I have tried to give the finance minister the opportunity to ask questions about retirement before, but not clearly, because she has sent another government council to Stortinget. So I'm going to take the opportunity now. We have figures from the government itself that show that both the tax relief of pensioners and the increase in pensions have benefited primarily those pensioners who have the highest income. Thus, despite protests from both an overall opposition and the pensioners' own organisations, social security is no longer to be settled for Stortinget. So my question is: how many pension settlements with negative real development only for pensioners does the Council of State consider it reasonable to have before the government comes to the Stortinget with measures to maintain the prerequisites of the pension reform that pensioners should also participate in the overall prosperity development in Norway — and that applies to all pensioners, not just the average pensioner?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e625	So it is not the Minister of Finance who sends other government councils to the Stortinge to answer questions. It's the state councils that have the constitutional responsibility, that meet in Stortingen to answer questions. Now the Minister of Labour, who has the constitutional responsibility for this, is present, but I find that the Labour Party still chooses to ask me the question. I would like to answer that, and I will answer it the same way as I have answered the two previous questions, namely that we have nothing to be ashamed of. We have delivered on what we have promised that we will do to the pensioners. Then I understand that it is challenging both for the country's pensioners and also for many employees that purchasing power has been the way it has been in the last few years, as a result of us having a slightly more demanding time for the Norwegian economy. Now it's shining. What will be the result of the next wage settlement is not possible for me to advance, but it has been necessary for the social partners to contribute to moderate wage settlement in order to ensure increased competitiveness for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e632	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e637	Then I'm going to ask my question to whoever has the constitutional responsibility, that's the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. In the first exchange of words, there was a debate between the councillor Hauglie and the representative Lysbakken on what is the main campaign of the government, where the Lightbakken thought it was tax-free, while Hauglie thought it was school and education. I can give them the phase: the main thrust of this government is exactly what the Lighthouse is so worried about, easy retirement. The cost of old-age retirement alone increases by 12 billion. kr in year. It's more than the entire cultural budget. And that's another 1.6 billion. kr to married and cohabiting pensioners and minimum pensioners at the top of it. What I want to ask a question about is what's a real concern for a lot of pensioners, that's all those on public service pensions. On Friday, Dagbladet told us that 700,000 pensioners are at risk of losing money to work because one has still not received a public service pension reform. This goes against all that this Storting has agreed on in principle, and that this government stands for. When will the government resolve the conflict about a public service pension?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e646	There is no doubt that part remains until the pension reform is fully realised. Public occupational pension is what remains. Here we have a good dialogue and good processes with the organisations. We have jointly prepared a report. It was completed at the end of 2015, and we used the previous harvest to investigate and go deeper into some of the issues that had not been addressed well enough in that report. Then there has been – and there is no secret – a discussion with organisations about how to land this process. They've wanted to land this in an out-of-date vote on a payroll settlement. We've thought it was unwise. That's what happened in 2009, and we saw how it went. We've wanted to land the process in a different way. But we still have processes with the organizations, and we aim to get this more on the rails again. There is still some work to be done, but much of the investigation work has now been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e655	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e661	My question goes to councillor Hauglie. The Minister of Labour's predecessors in the State Council chair liked to talk about being forward-looking in the fight against social dumping. He should not just sit passive and adopt plans. It was probably a little subtle attempt at criticism of the Stoltenberg government's three powerful action plans against social dumping. We now see that there was a rhetoric. We are still waiting for the forward-looking policy, even a little over a year within Hauglie's government career, although I note that the word 'forward-looking' is still clearly indebted as a universal point of expression when policy is otherwise lacking. On the contrary, this summer we received two reports from National Auditor Per-Kristian Foss, which were very critical of the government's work to prevent social dumping and the crime of working life. ‘Low and low deterrent efforts’ are the words summarising the Riksrevision’s findings. The reports have been examined by the Control Committee, which unanimously joined the criticism. There is a long way between those who are impressed by the government's efforts in this area. Even the leader of the programme committee of the Right, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, recently told the media that the government has not done enough to fight social dumping. And then the question to the Minister of Labour is, Is she in agreement with this rarely perceptive self-search from her party trap and from the government's colleague that the government has not done enough to fight social dumping?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e672	I'm going to like to see the government that can lean back and say that you've done enough. Whoever's doing it, I don't think I know the complexity of this. This government takes the crime of working life very seriously. We have a strategy against the crime of working life that has now worked for two years. We're running it now and we're revising it. It will be discussed with the parties at a summit in February, and we are in the process of revising that strategy. It is important to bear in mind that, following the criticism of the Riksrevision, more measures are in place. We now have five anti-employment crime centres in the five largest cities in the country, where state agencies work together to combat the crime of working life. The budgetary agreement provides for two new centres to be established during this year. A national analysis and intelligence centre has recently been established to strengthen cooperation between the police, the tax administration, the customs office, Nav, etc., so there are several measures that have been taken in the strategy, which are now being implemented and rolled out, and we see that it also has good results around the country where this is in place. So I want to say to the most extent that this government is forward-looking in this work, but there is no doubt that it is demanding, not least because crime is becoming more and more complicated, it is becoming more and more creative, and therefore the work must also be based on it. Even now, I have taken the initiative of the authorities in Romania, Poland and Lithuania to strengthen cooperation with these countries, and it is also well received there, so we are going to continue that work, and we see, as I said, also good results from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e679	Thanks for the answer. It is obvious that the Riksrevision is not satisfied with a government that is forward and happy with it. For me, it is obvious that the government is not just showing a weak and little deterrent effort to prevent social dumping and the crime of working life; I think there is good reason to claim that a policy is being pursued that is largely underpinned by the negative developments that we are now seeing unfold in parts of the world of work. The government has not only voted against a number of proposals for action against social dumping, but also actively proposed and adopted policies that weaken serious employment, for example. temporary additions, the removal of collective redress rights, the cutting of the trade union deduction and the weakening of the rights to control measures. If the Right now claims that they will increase their efforts against social dumping, is it not really just fire-extinguishing to remedy the negative effects of their own government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e688	No, on the contrary. In the case of temporary employment, it is right that we have made it easier to hire temporarily, but at the same time we have tightened up the length of temporary employment. We have also introduced quarantine provisions for companies using this. Temporary employment also proves to be an important springboard for getting into the labour market. Half of the temporary staff come to work after one year. 60 pst. of those temporarily employed are in employment after 21 months, 30 pst. of temporary staff come from unemployment and from studies. This means that temporary employment is an important entry point for many of those who are now outside, and I think it is good. However, we are concerned that we should have a serious and well-organised working life, and that is why we have 22 measures in the strategy against the crime of working life, which we have concluded with the parties and the agencies to combat the unprofessional working conditions in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e695	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Lise Christoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e700	Not all social dumping is illegal. Aviation is one of the industries most exposed to social dumping, and that was an important point in our third action plan against social dumping. It has now been removed by the sitting government. There was partial protection — not large, but nevertheless — in the foreign regulation, and four months before the last election, the Right Labour Policy spokesman, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, saw no reason for Norway to go ahead and open up further undermining Norwegian wage and employment conditions by amending the foreign regulations at this point. Three years later the government did it anyway, despite promises of the opposite. What new elements had emerged in this matter during this period that got Right in Government to break its promise to Norwegian pilots and cabin crews?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e705	The challenge was that we were given a clear recommendation and were clearly informed that the regulation was contrary to the Schengen Regulation, and we had to change it. But then LO has sued the state. It is now in the legal system. The decision will come in January, so we will see how the courts handle this. But the reason we changed the regulation was that we got a clear message that the current rule was in violation of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e710	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e715	Unlawful social dumping is closely linked to public tariff agreements. Generalised collective agreements include wages and salaries, but also compensation for travel, subsistence and lodging. So if the address of the place of residence is necessary far from the place of work, one has to pay travel, accommodation and lodging according to the rules of the collective agreement. My question is short, and I will take it slowly: does the Council of State agree that if travel, diet and lodging are not paid under Norwegian tariff agreements, is this contrary to the content of a public tariff agreement and thus an example of social dumping?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e722	Now the representative asks me about the so-called yard case, which has been in the Norwegian legal system for many years, where there was a conflict about whether travel, diet and lodging could be part of the collective agreement or not – a major and long-term conflict between NHO and LO. The passed Supreme Court. The Supreme Court supported the LO. The N.O. went on to ESA with the case. ESA has now opened a formal case against Norway, where ESA believes that expenditure increases cannot become part of the minimum wage concept, as the Supreme Court has suggested. We now have good processes with the parties. Both the employee side and the employer side are aware of the challenge. I feel that they are willing to come up with a solution. It is the parties that are responsible for the formation of wages and salaries in Norway. It is their agreement that is now under discussion, and it is they who must jointly arrive at a solution within the framework of which Norway is obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e729	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e743	There will be a number of changes in the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this context. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Mr Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has left. Questions 3 and 4 from the representatives of Ivar Odnes and Marit Arnstad respectively to the Minister for Climate and Environment are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 5, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, will be answered by the Minister for Culture who directs him. The question is moved and answered before question 10, to be answered by the same State Council. Question 6, from the representative Freddy de Ruiter to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs who will direct him. Question 7, from the representative Ketil Kjeseth to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative Dag Helge Frøisland. Question 9, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Health and Care on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e767	‘In the process of managing the ‘Right-way – Road Reforms’, New Veier AS was commissioned to deploy 534 km of new national road within a framework of approximately 130 billion kroner. In the media and on more public terms, the company says they will have a turnover of $148 billion. What is the background for this change, and how is the Council of State up to and including the Storing if the statements in the Storing Message are changed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e772	Part of the explanation for different figures is simply whether or not they are restated. When the Stortinget made its decisions, it was in 2015-kroner. When New Roads now talk about costs, it is often in 2016 or 2017 bills, and then it is natural that the amounts vary. The other side of the case is that when the Storting made its decision, one based itself on the cost estimate made in 2015. In order to get the most accurate portfolio price when one transferred it to Nye Wegener at the last New Year, a new cost estimate was made for Vegvesen. There were also some projects that became a little bit more expensive, and some projects that became a little bit cheaper. In sum: With 2016-kronors instead of 2015-kroner, and with new cost estimates, we get that difference. In that there is no drama. Under any government, a set of cost estimates while a project is being developed varies slightly from time to time. When this is finally adopted, the final cost estimate will be obtained, and the Stortinget will also be involved in those decisions. But the important thing for me here is that the purpose of New Roads is to challenge the way we build, the way we plan, just to bring down costs. New roads themselves have said that they look forward to being able to use more prefabricated elements instead of emptying things. They will be more and more close to municipal politicians in order to find good solutions early, rather than making plans that will then be the subject of many rematches. So far – on one project that has been awarded a contract – one has seen that the cost of the contract was about half a billion dollars lower than that of the contract with the Ministry of Transport. That's also the purpose, of being able to build better and cheaper. That's why I have very low shoulders, for the time being, on the cost framework that lies, in relation to the overall framework that New Veier has. I also record that Nye Veier believes that they will be able to realise the portfolio faster than the 20 years initially used. It suggests that they look at a potential for savings that will more than offset the changed ‘Excel-ark estimates’ that are now in place. As opposition politicians for eight years, I remember how everyone was concerned about a cost increase in the transport sector. After the 2013 election result, the representative Rommetveit was interviewed by the evening post and admitted that the previous government had not done much with this, and that this was probably one of the areas in which they had failed the most. I'm glad we're doing a lot of grips. Although we don't necessarily find two lines in all the answers right away, we've done a lot more to bring down the costs of these three years than what I experienced as opposition policies in the previous eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e785	Now I'm just going to be in opposition for four years, but still. I think it's the Evening Post interview. What happened then was that we got a good deal done, especially in connection with the national transport plan that was developed. So many of the measures were added there. The message says that the project E18/E39 should go from Kristiansand to Ålgård. The project has now been described as “Kristiansand-Sandnes” on the Nye Veger website. There are 14 kilometers between Sandnes and Ålgård today, and the message does not mention Sandnes in one word. The message states that the government adds ‘any changes to the company’s portfolio for the first time in relation to the national transport plan from 2022’. I can't see that the government has provided anything for Stortinget, which has expanded the portfolio to New Roads. And the government itself says that the occasion for that is in four years. What does the Council of State say?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e792	First of all, I can confirm that I have been planning to be the Council of State for many years. So the only way Rommetveit can be in opposition only in this period, is by notifying transition to a bourgeois party before the next elections. He's very welcome to that. Then he had at least fulfilled his dreams of building much more road and railway in this country than he ever got to when he was in position. Welcome! As regards the Kristiansand-Sandnes route, it is in the portfolio that Nye Veier has a part of the route, but when you start to get up to Ålgård, it remains at Vegvesenet. So there's no gap here that no one covers. The road service is now working with Sandved-Hove. In the Vegvesen portfolio, Hove–Ålgård remains, but it was decided in the national transport plan. Now therefore, to the Archipelago and down to Kristiansand is the New Roads. It is a bit of what has been the matter, and as I was so happy to see Stavanger Aftenblad mention a year ago – where the Vegvesen itself said that we are now sitting and planning 20 miles at a time where we previously sat and planned five and five kilometers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e801	Unfortunately, I can't give the same guarantee back to Solvik-Olsen, that he will continue as a state council if he changes parties, but neither he nor I decide this, there are many more people. I want to thank you for your answer. It's good that you look at how things can be done cheaper without going on chords with the necessary quality. Nevertheless, the follow-up of costs and project management totals 130 billion. kr a task which was to be central to the Council of State, but also to us in the Stortinget. My question is whether the Council of State thinks it's an independent point to orientate the Size of this kind of information in the budget proposal – and then don't assume that in order to get such information, we have to go on the New Roads homepage or read the Evening Post all the time. I also see the project leadership position in Nye Veger: «Project Director E39 Kristiansand–Sandnes/Stavanger». So that project crawls slowly, but probably northwards. Maybe we'll get it up to Hordaland also eventually.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e808	At least it's certain that a building thing up to Hordaland is the greater chance of getting to it by a bourgeois majority than by a socialist majority. It's Erna who's my boss, so she's the one who'll be able to decide whether or not I'm the Council of State or not, and not the Workers' Party. But, as I said, Rommets are welcome to those who will also lead forward. With regard to the Nye Veier itself, I record what is being said now, but I still note that when the government presented this reform, the Workers' Party was opposed. The Labour Party warned that we would have a "road-bonanza" with New Veier. There was a look-up in the class fight in April 2015. Now, on the other hand, other things are being problematized. It is good that the opposition is on the verge of trying to poke in detail here, but the important thing is that we have to build more roads, get more money back, make sure that traffic safety increases, and that travel time goes down. That's what we're about to do now. That one gets cost changes based on inflation adjustments and stuff is part of everyday life, but the Storting will be oriented when the Storing is about to make its decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e824	This question, from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e829	‘Washington Trade Daily wrote on 22 November that the negotiations on the TISA agreements have been suspended. On the Foreign Ministry's pages, the government wrote on 20 December that the parties to the TISA negotiations ‘ met in Geneva on 6 and 7 December to establish the status of the Tisa negotiations so far’. Is the Foreign Minister able to do well for why the negotiations seem to be temporarily settled and is there any indication from the negotiating parties as to when the negotiations may be resumed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e834	On behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I will reply as follows: Norway has a very open economy, which depends on trade. It is in our interest to have a trading system based on clear, equal and fair rules. The service sector is also important and is becoming increasingly important for Norway. If oil and gas exports are excluded, about half of Norwegian exports are services and this proportion is expected to increase in the years to come. For this reason, the government is engaged in the framework conditions and conditions of competition of the service industry internationally. Negotiations on trade in services – TISA, which will be based on the WTO agreement on trade in services – have been ongoing since spring 2013. There are 23 parties to the negotiations, including the EU, representing 28 countries, so that there are 50 WTO members in total. If successful, TISA will ensure greater predictability in the service market in a number of countries. Trade in predictability and non-discrimination is important, both nationally and internationally. The negotiating parties agreed in June 2016 to set the goal of concluding the negotiations by the end of the year. Although there is still a lot of work to be done, including solving the most difficult questions, this goal was seen as realistic. However, in retrospect, it turns out that the target of closing in 2016 was too optimistic. The 23 negotiators failed to find solutions to all the issues outstanding during the round of negotiations in December. The December round was used for a thorough review of progress and status in all areas of negotiation. It also agreed on the areas of negotiation which require continuing work at technical level. The negotiating parties agreed to meet again later this year. It's too early now to say something more about how the TISA process goes on. For Norway, our starting point is clear: exports of services are important for Norwegian employment and value creation. We want more transparent, non-discriminatory and predictable trade in services. We therefore want TISA and will work to ensure that the agreement is as good as possible for Norway. We are ready to continue negotiations as soon as the parties are ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e855	In the autumn of 2015, the government published a Norwegian-Icelandic chapter proposal for the TISA energy-related services agreement. The autumn of 2016 showed a leak from Greenpeace that the proposal now supports the EU and Australia. The United States has previously made similar proposals in the WTO, but has been rejected. Can the Council of State do something good for what is the United States' attitude to the Norwegian proposal, and will the government continue to give priority to the work on a chapter on energy-related services in the TISA agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e860	TISA has not been mentioned in the U.S. election campaign, but it is also too early to say something certain about when American positions will be clarified or what they will go on. Norway has chosen to have a very open process related to our positions in these negotiations, to which the representative also refers, there is a separate website where a continuous recent publication of the Norwegian positions and assessments provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e865	I record that I did not get an answer to that question. I may not be able to wait for that either from the Minister of Health, so it is a pity that the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not respond. But I'm still trying to ask myself another question. In October, the government organised a WTO summit at the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Oslo. A key issue for the WTO Development Group and a key issue for an agreement at the WTO Ministerial Meeting in Buenos Aires in December 2017 is a solution to the WTO food security and food storage issues. Without success here, it is haunted by other WTO agreements. A solution to this situation will allow developing countries to set a fixed price for the purchase of agricultural products from their farmers and to sell them to subsidized prices for food security nationally. How should the government work against the ministerial meeting to find a solution to this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e872	It's a question that concerns the WTO, and when I now answer on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I don't think I'm going to go into that kind of assessment. To the previous question: I felt it as two-part. One was about the positions of the United States, and I answered that. It is also the case that the main emphasis of the work done by Norway and Iceland in 2014 is to ensure open markets for energy-related services and equal treatment for foreign service providers. It is now in the direction of a common understanding in TISA that there should be no rules on market access in annexes, and it will be the final offer of the parties that also defines the level of ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e897	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time. Question 5 has been moved and will be answered before question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e907	Question no. 6, from the representative Freddy de Ruiter to the Minister of Health and Welfare, has been transferred to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Anniken Hauglie, who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e912	‘The Supreme Court judgment stating that a private reliever is to be regarded as a municipal employee has resulted in several notifications of changes in its relief offer. Bærum municipality must be praised to await the situation. What does the government do to its municipalities to ensure the best for the child and to prevent good relief schemes from disappearing as a result of municipal responsibilities for employers?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e919	Relieving measures are an offer to people and families with particularly burdensome care where the aim is to prevent congestion, provide caregivers with the necessary leisure time and holidays and the opportunity to participate in normal community activities. Municipalities are obliged to offer such relief measures. The Supreme Court, which was also the subject of the representative, ruled in June 2016 that shippers, whom the municipalities have traditionally engaged as contractors, would now normally be regarded as employees, with the consequence that labour law law applies. Uncertainty about the relief offer has arisen several times after the Supreme Court decision. I have received several signals that the legal situation makes it challenging to organise a good and sound service offer in the municipalities. This is serious. Discharge is an important offer for many people and families, and municipalities must have a framework to ensure that they can organise a good service offer. At the same time, consideration must be given to the protection of those who work as relievers. As the ministry now assesses, there will nevertheless be a need to make adjustments to the organisation of the scheme, either in the form of an agreement between the parties or in the form of regulatory changes. To ensure progress in the matter, I have had a meeting with the KS and will meet the trade union later this week. Contact with those who know this best is important to understand what are the concrete challenges of the Supreme Court decision, and to find the best way to deal with this in the future. I aim to be able to find a good solution to this matter before the summer, but it depends on the parties being able to contribute constructively to it. I understand that this is difficult for them. Changes in agreements and regulations will take some time, but I can promise that we will try to find good solutions for both parties as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e934	I think it's good. I am pleased that the Council of State signals that solutions are being worked on, and that there is a desire to involve both the Minister of Health, the Minister of Municipal Affairs and the Minister of Children, Equality and Inclusion, for this is a field that is quite wide. I hope that user organisations, users and others will also be involved, so that we can get that perspective into the work on any new arrangements. Some of the background to this was a look in the fatherland friend of Leah in 5 years with Down's syndrome and autism, who was told just before Christmas that her safe and predictable relief offer would stop. Just over the New Year, I visited Leah and her mother, and it was a strong meeting. What does the government council think you can signal to both Leah and her parents and other parents who are now worried about the relief offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e941	There are many who are in the same situation as Leah. There are several thousand who receive relief offers across the country. There have been many signs of how the consequences of the Supreme Court judgment affect the offer made to those receiving it, i.e. the children and users of the offer. So I can promise Leah's family and all the other families that we're really working on a blast to find a good solution that will take care of those who need relief, but who also take care of the employees, for all the time the Supreme Court has now decided that the charges are to be regarded as employees, we need to find solutions also within the legislation that applies to the employees. Here, as I said, I've had a meeting with KS. They're busy with this. I'm meeting the Trade Union this week. They're also busy with this. So I hope we can find a good solution. It is likely that changes will have to be made to the agreement between employees and employers, but we also look at the possibility of doing something more appropriate to meet the needs of those receiving relief measures, because this is important for those concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e946	There is no doubt that there must of course be some things purely labour law here – I understand that process. But I think I will repeat the call to be on with the user organisations and the relatives here to make good new arrangements that are at least as good as today's arrangements. I never thought I would say that, but I want to brag a bit of the municipality of Bærum, the right-hand municipality of Bærum. They addressed this issue. There were a number of redundancies from the administration and from the administration of the municipality. Then the politicians went in and took an 'time out'. There should be several municipalities in this situation. This is an inconspicuous, difficult situation that requires a focus on the best of the child. My closing question to the Council of State, which obviously has a good process on this, is: can the Council of State signal to the municipalities that they should do as Bærum: draw the breath, have ice in their stomachs, take a small ‘time out’ to get the necessary overview – without hassling so that vulnerable children and their families lose a completely necessary offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e955	There are many reasons to boast of the municipality of Bærum, in many areas other than this as well. Here, the municipality of Bærum has been offensive. At the same time, Bærum stands municipality in the same situation as all other municipalities, that they must make sure that their legislation is within the law. What we are working on now is to see if it is possible to change the agreements between employees and employers. It is the responsibility of the parties. Then we look at whether it is possible to change the regulation, which will give us more room for action within the law and the directives to which we are subject. That's what the goal is now, that we should be able to get good solutions that provide good care for users. If we can do it the same way it is today, we'll see. But at least we're very concerned that we're going to be able to find solutions that take care of users in a better way than the consequences of the Supreme Court, as it stands now, might do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e963	This question, from the representative Ketil Kjenseth to the Minister for Health and Health Bent Höie, will be raised by the representative Dag Helge Frøisland.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e968	‘New ways of measuring blood sugar which improves diabetes control and improves quality of life are available. An example of this is blood sugar measurement called Libre-Freedom! Children must stick in their fingers because the government has not yet taken action to assess and approve this type of new device for the blue-receptor system quickly. Today's approval procedures seem heavy and bureaucratic. The right promised to streamline red tape. What will the Council of State do to streamline approval for this type of equipment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e975	Many medical consumables are covered by the BIP, while the specialist healthcare service is responsible for financing treatment aids and consumables for a variety of treatment courses. HELFO assesses ongoing applications from suppliers for the inclusion of new products in the product and price lists for medical consumables under the Blue Recipe System. New products may be included in the price and product lists only if they fall under one or more of the items of the blue recipe § 5. This provision contains a list of medical consumables covered by the BIP and the diseases and conditions to which it applies. Where processing is the responsibility of the specialist healthcare service, the treatment aid may be assessed in the system of new methods. Such a methodology assesses, inter alia, the safety, utility and resource use of a methodology. Decisions to adopt new methods in the specialist healthcare service are based on these methodological assessments. Use, resource use and seriousness are the key criteria for priority in healthcare, to which an aggregate increase has joined. These criteria are central to the introduction of new methods and medicinal products in healthcare. A methodological assessment will contribute to their knowledge before a decision is made on the method or medicinal product to be introduced into the healthcare system or not. In the case of FreeStyle Libre, there is uncertainty about which patients the product is most relevant to. I have explained this in an earlier question-time response. There is a need for a technical decision-making basis to assess whether the product can replace blood sugar strips covered by the bladder prescription system or whether the product should be included as part of the treatment offer for diabetic patients in the specialist healthcare system, in line with insulin pumps and other diabetes treatment devices. In June 2016, the Order Forum ordered a rapid method assessment of FreeStyle Libre and related products. This is in order to identify patients who benefit most from the product and who should be responsible for treatment and funding. It is the Knowledge Centre of the Institute for Public Health that is to carry out the methodological assessment, with a period of 180 days from receipt of documentation from the manufacturer. The company that is behind FreeStyle Libre delivered documentation just before Christmas, and the method assessment is started.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e988	The Knowledge Centre of the Public Health Institute is preparing for only the RHFs, i.e. the specialist health service. This will then be sent to the decision-making forum, which cannot decide for HELFO. We know that this system can be compared to 8 to 9 fingertips with disposable equipment and strips, which are currently covered by the blue prescription system. Will the Council of State ensure that HELFO assesses this type of equipment for approval in parallel with the RHF process?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e995	One of the reasons why this is to be assessed by the Knowledge Centre is that the representative will answer the question: Is this a product that belongs to the BIP and is therefore to be financed by HELFO, or is it a product that is more in line with, for example, the BIP. Diabetes pumps, which are part of the specialist health service? Once that assessment has been carried out, it is possible to reach a rapid conclusion — either that it goes to the Decision Forum, and that decisions are taken on it relating to the specialist healthcare service, or that HELFO uses this investigation as a basis for taking its decision. What has unfortunately delayed the process is that the company that delivers this has not provided the documentation to the Public Health Institute until just before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1002	We both agree that it is sad that it took three months after the assignment was given, until the manufacturer provided his documentation. However, I work as a pediatrician with this particular group, and we clearly see that this improves both the blood sugar regulation and the quality of life of children and young people. In Denmark, the Minister of Health cut through and approved this without the cumbersome bureaucratic process we are using here in Norway now. Could the Council of State, pending the processes now underway, at least cut through and approve this aid on a blue prescription for children and young people diagnosed with E10.9, type 1 diabetes?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1009	There is a big and significant difference between the representative of Frøisland and me, namely that I am not a pediatrician. That means that the kind of professional questions aren't things that I can just cut through. I am dependent on having good judgements. With regard to issues related to specialist healthcare, the Stortinge has joined the scheme we have in Norway, which is that the type of decision is not taken by politicians – they are taken by health regions. As regards the question of what should be included in the prescription scheme in this area, a decision is taken by HELFO, not by the Minister for Health. In Denmark, a non-standard system, but in Norway, there has been a broad political consensus – including the Frøisland Party – that we should have principles and systems to make health care priorities based on professional judgements, because all decisions will have consequences for other patients as well. But the time has taken, I am sorry, but it is mainly the company's own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1021	‘Budget 2017 for the Hospital Telemark HF is understood to remove radiologist, ear-nose-neck specialist and eye-catching from Rjukan Hospital and Cytostatika. Can the Council of State respond to the 2017 budget of Rjukan Hospital and for those functions in particular, and how this is consistent with the development plan of the Hospital Telemark HF, approved by the Council of State at the Enterprise Meeting on 5 June 2014?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1026	The Management Board of the Hospital Telemark discussed the 2017 budget on 15 December 2016. The health company has prepared an operating budget for 2017 with an operating surplus of minus 20 million. kr. Improvement of productivity, reduction in the number of outpatient controls and treatment of patients at the right level of healthcare are important to achieve the objectives. Special attention will be given to the reporting and follow-up of planned manning reductions. The Hospital Telemark informs that patients in the area around Rjukan start with cytotoxic drugs at the Ski Department and are now being followed up at Notodden. Support treatment is offered on Rjukan. The experts for the treatment of cytostatics in Telemark have assessed competence and soundness, and they consider that it is not advisable to provide such treatment at Rjukan Hospital. The ear-nose-neck offer on the Rjukan has been covered by a private ear-nose-neck doctor without an agreement. This arrangement has been terminated, inter alia: because it was a disproportionate animal. Patients are now referred to Skien. The hospital Telemark wants to establish contract specialists' homes within the ear-nose neck and gynaecology at Rjukan and has been in contact with Health South-East about this. The eyepiece function is covered by a contract specialist and this function is stable. Ordinary radiological studies, such as: fractures of the bones, carried out at Rjukan hospital. Heart ultrasound is done on Rjukan, while other ultrasound examinations are offered on Notodden. The board of Health South-East dealt with development plan 2030 for the Hospital Telemark in December. The plan assumes that there will be day and outpatient activity on Rjukan and that Telemark will continue to have a decentralised hospital structure with acute hospitals in both the Ski and the Notodden. There shall be decentralised services at the district psychiatric centres and decentralised, somatic outpatients and day care in close cooperation with the municipalities. Today's emergency response continues, and the outpatient outpatient services are developed decentralisedly in cooperation with the municipalities. I confirmed the decision to terminate the emergency functions at Rjukan at the corporate meeting on 5 June 2014. The new development plan for the Hospital Telemark by 2030 still suggests that we should have day- and outpatient activity in Rjukan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1043	The development plan 2014–2016 for the Hospital Telemark is a rather specific one on which one will have planned hospital provision on the Rjukan in the future. It also says that there is an ambition to: ‘decentralise as many treatment services as possible. It is therefore planned to continue a wide range of hospital services during the day; dialysis, cell toxicity treatment and specialist outpatient clinics, X-rays and laboratory services. The establishment of further decentralised services will be assessed on an ongoing basis in the light of patient needs and technical possibilities’. There is a protocol entry for the examination of the budget of the Hospital Telemark where a question arises as to how the enterprise can decide to cut out what has been adopted by the Minister of Health in the Business Meeting for the Rest Supply of the Rjukan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1053	I don't realize that's what's going on. What is important is that the Hospital Telemark has updated its 2014-2016 development plan by 2030, which was reviewed by the Management Board on 14 September 2016. There were no changes to the service offer at Rjukan in the plan, but it was suggested that a person move the somatic activity in Pors Grund to Skien. It is, as I also said in my first answer, stated that there should still be good decentralised specialist health services at Rjukan. But it is also true that, as a point 1, the Hospital Telemark is always responsible for assessing the soundness of the offer made. They experience, for example: that recruitment challenges and other challenges to soundness of mind are the responsibility of the hospital’s management and management for the proper conduct of other matters. It is also true that even if you want to maintain an offer, it does not mean that you do not want, for example, as is the case here, to have an agreement with a contract specialist to make an offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1062	I fully agree with the Minister of Health and Health that this is about hospital leasing, and it is perhaps a matter of one sheep for good decentralised services at Ringerijk Hospital up against Ål, and that it is very difficult at the Hospital Telemark to get the same thing up against the users. Many people feel that what was used as an argument to reduce the daily crew on Rjukan, that a now should get a good outpatient offer and a good day’s offer, is being removed – one after another – and that one gets a reduction. There are many people who feel like a promise break, not only from the Hospital Telemark, but also from the Council of State, who took responsibility for that conversion. Can the Council of State understand that people in Telemark are responding to what is now happening around the Rjukan Hospital and the offer provided by specialist health services?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1067	Yes, I understand that, and it's always like this kind of process that there's a lot of uncertainty, and changes that have good reasons are often seen as justified in other ways, or as part of a different strategy. However, it is therefore so important that the 2030 development plan confirms the developments that were also the basis for the decision in 2014. Then you have experience from other hospitals, which the representative was also involved in. Ring-rich hospitals also had many years of great unrest. Now it feels like a very good and forward-looking offer. We had the same thing at Nordfjord Hospital – years of conflicts about the different elements of the hospital's services. Now there's peace of mind about it, and people are experiencing a positive development. I hope that we will also get into such a situation with regard to the offer of Rjukan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1077	This question, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Health and Care on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1082	‘According to NOU 2015: 14 the interest compensation scheme for school buildings and symmetry facilities is a scheme that provides this area with a protected position on the State budget. The selection suggests that no new such schemes should be created or new ones granted within the existing schemes after 2016. In the 2017 government budget, the Ministry of Finance states that they will follow up on this recommendation. Can the Council of State confirm that they will phase out the scheme of interest compensation for school buildings and swimming facilities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1089	In the 2017 state budget, 223 million have been allocated. kr to interest compensation for school and swimming facilities. The allocation shall compensate municipalities and county councils for interest expenditure on investments in the framework of a total of 30 billion. kr that has been committed by the State for the period 2002 to 2016. The government has phased in the last 4 billion. of the investment framework through the budget submitted. The State has committed itself to paying grants 20 years in advance through the commitments given. There is a good basis for saying that the municipalities have not prioritised current maintenance sufficiently as an operational task, and over time this will result in an increasing accumulation of maintenance kits. At the same time, we see that municipalities have a historically high level of investment. State measures should therefore be aimed at contributing to the priority of local authorities for maintenance as an operational task. The key prerequisites for good quality school construction are a balanced local economy and an adequate local priority for property management in municipalities. The government has given priority to a strong local economy. The municipalities have gained more real growth in their income under this government than in the last period of the previous government. In 2017, the free revenues of municipalities are strengthened by 3.8 billion. kr, which gives municipalities a good space for action to give priority to school and school construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1100	My question was whether the Council of State could confirm that they would phase out the scheme of interest compensation for school buildings and sewing facilities. And I have to ask again if the Council of State can confirm that they are now in the process of phasing out, and that there have not been any new funds for 2017. And what time will it be for municipalities to apply for interest compensation when they are going to do an extra maintenance work for their schools? I just want to ask again if the Council of State can be very clear that this system is now going to go away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1105	It has been presented in the State budget, and the Stortinget has also addressed this issue. The representative is also fully aware that what has been included in the 2017 budget is the 223 million. kr that has been allocated to the scheme. The commitments entered into by this scheme from 2002 to 2016 are within the framework of 30 billion. kr, and this government has phased in the last 4 billion. of the investment framework through the budget submitted. It is the money that has been allocated to the scheme. What is crucial is that the municipalities take on what is a municipal responsibility, namely to have ongoing maintenance of the buildings in which they have invested. The most important thing to ensure it is a good municipal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1112	I still ask for a clear response as to whether the scheme should be discontinued. Can the Council of State give a very clear answer to that? When it comes to the setting up of the Committee and the treatment of the State budget, there was no comment on this. I have been asked a question from the municipality of Bergen, where a question arises in the administration about how to plan to get rid of all the schools that are not indoor climate-approved, etc. A clear signal from the government about how they evaluate it now. There are over 300 school elephants in Norway who go to schools that are not indoor climate-approved. It's actually also a major health challenge. We have been in charge of health protection since 1998, and it has not helped. But it doesn't help to create bad financial arrangements for the municipalities that actually want to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1119	The most important municipalities can do to maintain the buildings in which they have invested is to maintain a level playing field. It is also important that the State does not contribute to various schemes that reward municipalities that do not operate in an even manner of maintenance. This will probably only lead us to remain in a situation where municipalities allow important social investment to lapse over time, without keeping them up. Of course, it's bad for those kids who go to school, and for those who are going to use sports facilities, but it's also very bad social economy. The representative is fully aware that what comes into the future state budget cannot be answered at this time. What I have responded to is what is in the current budget. There is no funding for the continuation of this scheme. It's very clear from the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1126	Then we go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1134	This question, from Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, will be answered by the Minister for Culture who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1139	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: «In our country on 21 August 2016, only 3 out of 248 members of the board of Norwegian mosques were women. The study section of the Grand Duchy writes in a mandate from the undersigned that the UN Convention on Women’s Discrimination should take precedence and that ‘KDK gives the State a clear duty to work for gender equality also within religious communities’. [[KDK]] It is concluded that ‘it will not be a disproportionate requirement’ to require a certain proportion of women in mosque governance. Will the government follow up on this in the granting of State grants?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1146	Gender equality is a core value in our society and an important political goal. The protection against sex discrimination is a fundamental right. Freedom of belief and life is also a fundamental value and right in Norwegian society. It's a prerequisite for a free society. It implies that the State should initially not be involved in internal relations in the religious and life views. The state's foremost task in the field of faith and life's vision shall be to safeguard and protect freedom of belief and life. As the representative of Bøhler is probably familiar with, the grant schemes for religious communities other than the Norwegian Church are governed by Law 13 June 1969 No. 25 on trudom and talk about others. In the management of the arrangements, the State may not impose stricter requirements than those laid down in or in accordance with the Religious Society Act. Any requirement for a certain proportion of one sex in the governing bodies of religious communities cannot be introduced without legislative change and must also apply in a non-discriminatory manner to all religious communities – not only to mosques or Muslim religious communities. Freedom of belief and life does not exempt religious communities from complying with Norwegian law, it is important to clarify. Religious communities are bound by the Equality Act, in line with other organisations and businesses in Norway. In order for religious communities to treat gender differently, the general conditions of Section 6 of the Equality Act on Legal Discrimination must be met. This implies that discrimination must have an objective in substance, must be necessary to achieve its objective – and that there is a reasonable relationship between what one wants to achieve and the extent to which discrimination is discriminated against the one or more disadvantaged. At present, the government is working on proposals for a new, comprehensive law on religious and life views. Financial instruments, including questions as to the conditions that may and should be imposed on government grants to the civil society of faith and life, are part of the investigation process. It is a matter for consultation to be sent to spring. Then we also work by the government with a big message about belief and life views. I am committed to stimulating a wide-ranging debate on different issues of faith and life's vision as part of that work. A question that the representative now asks, how we can strengthen women's representation in the governing bodies of the religious and life-vision organisations, I think is a natural part of that work. I also believe that we should look at the different instruments that we can point to in such a big message, in order to achieve the target that the representative of Bohemia points to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1163	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think the top point in the answer is what the Council of State said that no stricter requirements can be imposed than those laid down in the Creeding Society Act. In response to this question, on page 8 of the UK Investigation Section, it is considered that the provisions of the UN Convention on Women’s Discrimination, made into Norwegian domestic law, state that they take precedence over other legislation – to ‘predominate in other legislation’ – if it conflicts. One cannot just say that one has to deal with the religion law – this is why the Women's Discrimination Convention takes precedence over other legislation. I would like to ask the Council of State whether she also has that understanding, and that it is an obligation for the State to follow up its own legislation – that is, the Women's Discrimination Convention, which is in our legislation – and not to support those who discriminate against gender.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1172	I think we see it a little different here. It's going to be 40 pst. women in the boards, but if we are required to make demands on it, I think that the representative Boehler and I have two slightly different opinions about it. I think we can do a lot by using other means than resorting to the law or withholding financial subsidies. Intervention in religious freedom I think we should be very careful with. I therefore believe that the Women's Convention and the primacy to which the representative refers will be interpreted slightly differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1177	I thank you for the additional response from the Council of State. I just want to stress what's my point here, that the state has an active obligation to promote equality and follow up KDK, the convention I've mentioned. It also says, on page 13, in the investigation that I am based on: ‘We see that the Parties to the Convention’ – i.e. the Norwegian State –’ is obliged by KDK not to sponsor practices which mean that women and men are treated differently, that States are to take active steps to prevent discrimination.’ So it's not a question of just showing that you want to use other tools, encouraging change, etc. There is also an obligation not to sponsor practices involving the treatment of women and men differently. I believe that at this point the situation has remained silent for too many years. We saw it in the appointment of a new government in the Islamic Council, and we see it in the count that our country did, that there are only 3 out of 248 board members who are women, and the three are in the same mosque. So there's a need to follow up on this in a stronger way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1189	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Bøhler, that gender equality is a fundamental value in Norway that we are going to fence around. Let it be quite clear: of course, it should be an objective that women are well represented in the governing bodies of the religious and life-view society. But I see that we interpret the Women's Convention differently. I believe that there is no obligation for us on the part of the authorities to make a claim for 40 pst. representation. I believe that we need to look at other instruments than holding back financial subsidies or using the law. The NRK had just one case from Arendal where there was a woman's uprising to get women into the regimes in the mosques. There's in one of the mosques two places in the board plus one item that's going to go to women. The head of that mosque, Josef Heier, says that he is happy that the women are going to get away with it, and that it is right and natural for women to be in the government. This shows that we can make a lot of changes using other instruments. We have made that clear in Norway, and I hope the representative agrees that we will discuss this in the future and look at what can have the most impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1202	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: «Tuesday, 10 January 2017 The Festival Committee presented its position for the award of Norwegian film festivals. The Norwegian film festival in Haugesund and the Barnefilmfestival in Kristiansand get cut in their appropriations. How does the Council of State view this with regard to the film comparison and predictability of the Storting as well as the commitment to film dissemination?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1209	In the film conciliation, Stortinget joined the government's proposal for a comprehensive national film dissemination policy, where the Norwegian Film Institute is given a clear responsibility for the national dissemination of film culture. The government has followed up the film conciliation by giving the Norwegian Film Institute overall national responsibility for film dissemination and responsibility for the management of the funding of fees in Norwegian cinema and film funds. A new regulation has been drawn up that clarifies the purpose of cinematographic grants. The regulation takes account of the objectives for which the film conciliation specifies that the means of charging should be used, including in the future. The Norwegian Film Institute has reinforced grants for film festivals in general, from 14.8 million. SEK in 2015 to SEK 18,6 million. kr in 2017. As proposed in the film release, a new festival support committee has been set up with a wide range of film professionals, responsible for examining applications for film festival grants. The Stortinget was behind this – a new regulation and also that a new festival support selection should be established. That is what is the basis for the changes that have now been made. A grant decision has been taken on the basis of the submission of the sample and the assessment of the Film Institute under a new regulation. This is exactly what the Stortinget asked for – that it was the sample that was to assess it, that it should be taken into account. The Festival Support Committee has now expressed its opinion on how the sample has prioritised. They have been given a mandate to do so. Among other things, changes have been made to provide financial support for comparable festivals at the corresponding level. The selection has also wanted to promote the artistic ambitions of the festivals and the ability to attract a paying audience. In my answer I just want to emphasize again that this shows that we have followed up the film deal, we have done what the Storting asked us to do. Neither the gambling message nor the film conciliation say anything about how the means of film dissemination are to be distributed between actions. Contributions to film dissemination shall contribute to the access of the public in Norway to a wide and varied range of Norwegian and foreign films of high cultural value and artistic quality. Grants shall also contribute to the dissemination of film history and knowledge about Norwegian and foreign films, increase film and media literacy and contribute to a professional film dissemination environment. This is in line with the objective of cinematographic grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1224	There is no doubt whatsoever about what is in the film deal from Stortinget, nor about who is responsible for the exercise of the decisions taken there: predictability of the Norwegian film festivals transparent allocation arrangements Motion picture dissemination services The Norwegian film festival is over 40 years old and is comparable to the film world’s ONS, a professional film festival that is a national and international film festival that has been operating well, with good support from national will for many years. It's nice that Film & Cinema's two previous film festivals have been cut in the year's awards. It's the responsibility of the Council of State. You add up to $5 million in 2017. SEK in cut, in 2018 1 million. kr i cut for the Norwegian Film Festival and SEK 250 000 for the industrial film festival for children and young people in Kristiansand. What does the Council of State think the management of Kristiansand and the management of Haugesund should cut in relation to the film industry in Norway and the international industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1243	Then I have to ask the representative of the Workers' Party if the Workers' Party is now going against its own agreement and its own payroll message, where they give this responsibility to the Festival Support Committee. For the representative here says that it is my responsibility, what has happened, the priorities that have now been made, and the decision that has been taken. If the representative Haukeland Liadal stands by it, I need the Workers' Party to clarify its film policy. I fully agree that the Haugesund Film Festival, which I visited last year, is a special and unique festival where the industry meets producers, distributors and cinemas. It is very important, and I have great faith that those who are new festival leaders for an innovative and innovative festival will now make changes related to the leaders in the film release, also in order to get out well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1250	I remind you of who is asking in the questionnaire, and who has the opportunity to ask questions. It's the Storting. I also recognise that I do not hear the Minister of Culture answering the question of where Kristiansand and Haugesund are going to cut in their professional festivals. Many have feared the government's cultural policy, and that is a great reason to know. When was there – and who gave – an increase in public coverage for increased national support for the Norwegian film festivals, the industry festivals that do not work with the local public growth on a daily basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1257	The overall objectives of the film policy agreement and of the communication are dissemination and audience figures. That's what's important. Now that we've increased the contribution to the film festivals from 14.8 million. SEK in 2015 to SEK 18,6 million. kr in 2017, even a representative from an opposition party cannot stand and say that it is cut in the film festivals. That's not right. I feel that when the Workers' Party says that the priorities for the funding of film festivals are to be made by the Festival Support Committee, and decisions are to be taken, you really don't think so, because you want the government councils or politicians at the Stortinget to go in and make a distribution. Then it's very hard to understand what the Workers' Party here means, because they're saying the opposite of what they said in the film message.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1264	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-18.ana.ud525e1278	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
