ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e44	A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Anette Trettebergstuen on parental leave from 19 May to 21 June from the representatives of Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Svein Roald Hansen, Tor André Johnsen, Sveinung Rotevatn, Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal and Marianne Aasen on leave from 22 May until 24 May – all to attend meetings of the Joint EEA Parliamentary Committee in Reykjavik On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Are Health For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen, Rangdi Krogstad and Hege Jensen For the Rogaland County: Marie Liones Breek For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Gunhild Berge Stag For Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e132	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e141	Sometimes it's easier than other times to be the case rapporteur. The matter that we are going to deal with today is of a simpler nature. These are amendments to Section 10 of the Marketing Act, which is linked to the Stortinget’s request decision on the establishment of a public daily food portal. It is a unanimous committee which has opted for the amendments proposed in the marketing law and which is a derogation from the right to access the price information of the food portal. The matter has also been the opinion of the Business Committee, which unanimously supports our position. When I have an opportunity, I want to say that I come from a part of the country, the West, which is hard hit by unemployment. I know families who every week are looking for the good purchases just in the grocery store. We know that consumer behaviour changes as income falls and any salary falls. But also for those who are in paid work in Norway, we are concerned with the good purchases – we want quality at a good or at a low price. We have a wish to be informed about our trade. Therefore, the Storting wishes to establish a public food portal that can be of benefit to consumers by providing them with an overview of the price and quality of the goods they want to buy. In conclusion, I also use the opportunity – even with unanimity – to thank the Committee for its fine work, where the cooperation and consent has been 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e152	Also, I come from the West, and I'm very happy that the unemployment is coming down, that the growth is on its way up, and that more and more people are coming to work. I am pleased that the Committee unanimously endorses this proposal. This is a request decision that the government is now following up by setting up a daily food portal. The aim of the food portal is to inform consumers so that they can make better choices. We have given the task of developing and operating the daily food portal to the Consumer Council. The Consumer Council has already created a Smartphone application called Peiling, which displays information about the commodities – an overview of ingredients, ingredients and allergens. The plan is to launch a more complete information solution right over the summer. What has been most demanding in this project has been clarifying how consumers can be informed about where it is most reasonable to shop – i.e. about prices – without at the same time facilitating the coordination of the chains or shops between prices. The professional assessments we rely on are based on the fact that full availability of real-time price information on groceries can facilitate tacit cooperation and weaken competition. The result could be higher prices for consumers, the opposite of what we want. For this reason, it is necessary to create a specific tool to enable customers to compare the price levels of different shops without the tool giving operators access to the prices of their competitors. This solution has previously been addressed to the Storting in the budget proposal for the last harvest. It assumes that the portal will put together a basket and calculate the price of the goods in the basket in each store. Actors shall not know the contents of the curve in advance. So the price of the curve is going to be an index of the price level of the individual store. Unlike, for example: VG’s food stock exchange will, in principle, show all around 3,800 grocery stores in Norway connected to a chain. As a public body, the Consumer Council is governed by public law. When, for competition reasons, it is not possible to show the prices of each product on the portal, it is important that traders are not able to obtain an overview of the prices of the competitors by applying for public law transparency in the price data stored by the portal. This is the justification for the proposal for a derogation from the right to access under public law for information on prices provided by the food portal. As I said at the outset, I am pleased that the Committee has joined the proposal that has been promoted. With this decision, we will be able to launch a good tool for consumers during the summer. I hope that the food portal will also help to strengthen competition between the large food chains.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e175	The issue we are dealing with today is the result of a proposal from the Left to strengthen consumer power through the digitisation of product information and to establish an information portal for groceries. We have been a little in doubt, we have to admit, whether the proposition follows up the purpose of the decision to make available, among other things. price information. That was an important part of the proposal. Among other things, asked for a portal with an overview of the price, statutory information on the products, including: nutrition information and declaration of ingredients and other necessary and relevant information. There have been different approaches to this, as explained by the Council of State, and we have come to the conclusion – with the slightly conflicting interests – that the most important thing for the Left is that we have to establish such a daily food portal and that we are starting a digital comparison. This also applies in particular to nutrition information and other information that is important for consumers to be able to relate to. We know that there are already price hunters in other sectors, and we've got online traders in the groceries sector that publish prices, so this is increasingly coming on us as consumers. I would like to encourage, in the further design of the daily food portal, that the price becomes as available as possible and that such a «price curve», which is now proposed, is a starting point for it, and that a further development of different technical solutions in the course of the process, which means that consumers are given more information and are not more confused.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e188	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e204	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e214	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good work on this law and for a great, good and broad consensus. I would also like to thank the nutrition committee, which had the matter for its opinion. ‘Telephone vendors’ – there are probably not many words that arouse so many emotions in people, and it’s not always just positive feelings. But at the same time, I think it's important to realize that it's probably changed a little bit over the years. Both the companies that use this kind of marketing have seen that they have to work with their own reputation, and that it has developed a need in the way we communicate, using the phone as a necessary tool in contact with customers or donors. So this has probably changed a lot over the years. Our task in the committee was to look at the consumer and find the balance between the consumer and the industry and between the consumer and the volunteer. It is possible to avoid telephone sales even today, by making reservations in the Brønnøsund registers. That's what many Northmen have done – over two million. There is also the possibility of booking with the individual. If you are called by an organisation or an enterprise, you can politely say: No, thanks, I don't want these kind of enquiries. And given that we have on average 10–15 customer relationships and donor relationships, it's a relatively fast job to clean up the existing customer relationships if you don't want these kinds of calls. It's probably changed something, because some of the conversations are actually wanted. People want to contribute to volunteer work, around seasons, around disasters and other events. And people want to have contact with their insurance company, their bank and their car company, to get information about product development, or that some kind of insurance might have gone out and been replaced by something else. There are many good reasons why you want to have contact with those you are a customer of or give to. The conscious consumer has had the opportunity to reserve himself against both addressed advertising and unaddressed advertising and telephone sales for many years, and many have availed themselves of that opportunity. Now it becomes even a little bit better to be a consumer, because one of the important changes of this law is to remove the possibility of what is called "leads", i.e. e.g. participate in competition on the Internet, providing their information and, at the same time, perhaps without being aware of it, giving a number of other enterprises the right to contact. Fortunately, it's being removed. At the same time, everyone who contacts you on the phone should have a visible number, and the number should be searchable, so that you can find out who is trying to make contact. All these changes, combined with the seriousness of the various voluntary organisations and enterprises, as well as the possibilities to reserve themselves in different ways, allow the consumer to avoid the unsolicited conversations while maintaining the desired calls. So today, I believe that a unanimous committee adopts a good and appropriate tightening of the marketing law, especially in the case of telephone sales, while taking into account both the need for and the desire for contact in existing customer relationships and the need and desire to contribute to the volunteering, although it may often be somewhat more sporadic than in the specific customer relationships with business.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e232	The left will support the Committee's position on restrictions relating to telephone sales. Fortunately, smaller and smaller sales are made by telephone to individual consumers. It is a type of sales channel which fortunately also makes less use of business, but it has been absolutely necessary for one to have tightened the law in order to limit an unfortunate use of telephone as a sales channel. There is also a technological development that is making the phone less important, and there are different alternatives on the Internet that are becoming more important to us as consumers. It also relates to what we talked about in the previous case, price comparisons and other information related to products that are easier to acquire on the Internet. What the left has been most concerned about in recent years is that we still have challenges related to telephone sales in the business world. We get many enquiries, especially from smaller traders who feel that they still get many telephones from so-called catalogue sharks, like to cover that they already have a customer relationship, or that they want to sell a product that is difficult for traders to deal with as to what extent it is an ideal advertising product that is sold. Many people feel that they do not enter into an agreement, but they still get an invoice, and they do not get out of the so-called customer relationship. This ends in collection systems with a lot of fees and a long process mill. We in the Left once again promote our proposal to tighten up on business to get rid of catalogue sharks, which we still experience is a challenge for many small businesses. We have to tighten it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e245	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e250	The government has submitted proposals for changes to the rules on telephone sales in the Marketing Act. The aim is to ensure that consumers who have made an active choice and who have reserved themselves for telephone sales should be allowed to release this form of sale as far as possible. The background to the proposal is a comprehensive evaluation of the telephone sales rules, carried out by the SIFO research institute and the Consumer Ombudsman. It showed that telephone sales peaked at the complaints statistics of the Consumer Ombudsman. More than two million Norwegians have reserved for telephone sales, but the evaluation showed that more than half of them are still being called. Consumers experience telephone sales as an urgent form of sale. The dissatisfaction with telephone sales is understandable, especially if you have reserved yourself against this. The reservation system is initially a good system, which the government proposed to maintain. We also want to continue with other parts of the telephone sales rules that work well, for example. the requirement that telephone offers must be accepted in writing by the consumer. However, there are aspects of legislation that do not work as well and that contribute to consumer dissatisfaction. In particular, the exceptions to the right of reservation apply. The exceptions are too far and too vague. The government wants to strengthen consumers’ right to reserve themselves against unwanted telephone sales, so we proposed tightening the legislation. We wanted to cancel the exemption that allows the sole proprietor to call existing customers who have made reservations. At the same time, we proposed a transitional period of six months, which would have given the sole proprietors the opportunity to clarify with their existing customers if they want telephone calls in the future. We proposed to tighten the exemption for an explicit request, by requiring that consent be given to one trader at a time. There are many Internet competitions that today seek the consent of a wide range of actors. This proposal will no longer be possible. We also proposed to impose a ban on telephone sales from hidden telephone numbers, and we proposed to impose a ban on voluntary organisations from sending requests for support that appears to be a payment claim, for example. an invoice with due date and amount. The government considered that the proposals would help to ensure that consumer reservations are respected and that telephone sales are more likely to be made to those who want it. I am pleased that the Committee supports the majority of the government's proposals. However, I note that the Committee has proposed two amendments. Both proposals concern exceptions to the right of reservation. The first proposal is to maintain the exemption for traders, which allows them to call existing customers who have made reservations. I record that the Committee believes that the consumer can benefit from telephone contact with the trader, for example. on the development of products offered and that the Committee considers that the usefulness of such contact outweighs the protection against undesirable conversations. The second proposal of the Committee is to extend the exemption for non-governmental organisations, where one proposes to allow organisations to call donors who have made occasional contributions in the last three years. The Committee considers that consumers who give to non-governmental organisations can view themselves as donors, even if they do not necessarily give on a regular basis. The intention of the government's proposal was, as stated, to ensure that consumers who will not be called should avoid this as much as possible, and we proposed a stricter regulation than the one that the Committee is now proposing. At the same time, I understand that the Committee places more emphasis on other considerations than the protection against unwanted telephone conversations. I also see that the case has several sides. Consumers have said clearly what they think about telephone sales. They experience this as an intrusive form of sale, and they are dissatisfied to be called once they have made their reservation. With the government’s proposal – which we also receive support from in the Committee – and with the Committee’s adjustments, we are now going to have an impact on tightening up the exemption for explicit requests, so that as a consumer only consents to one trader at a time, to impose a ban on telephone sales from hidden numbers and to impose a ban on requests for support from voluntary organisations that appear to be a demand for payment. I believe that this will contribute to a stronger protection against unwanted telephone calls than we have today, and I am pleased that we are now getting these changes in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e296	We will now debate the call and distribution decisions for the 2016-2017 session. In that year, there is 477 decision-making points. There's a lot of them. In 2010–2011 there were seven. And then it has an extra 33, 25, 82, 192 – and then 477. It appears that after the change of government, the number of decision points from this room has increased dramatically. We have changed the time of the message submission to January. That's very good, because then we can at least get to all of the people who did it in the budget process. It seemed to me that I favour better reporting on the follow-up to the decision. So I would also just like to mention that two days after we presented the matter, the revised budget came, and some of the decisions know I'm out there. There may be several, but they will be displayed in our setup, and they will be cleared next time. It is true that when the committee is working on this matter, you are always asking for input from the professional committees which have decisions to follow up. It's because it's like the committees that have proposed appeal decisions, and so it's natural that they consider the government's follow-up. When there are as many as 477 items of decision, I think we should discuss whether we should continue with the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs as one matter, or whether perhaps the committees should be re-adopted, for example. in connection with the budgetary procedure. However, we have chosen not to make any proposals about this now, but think that there is something the new big deal should discuss – at least when there are as many as 477 items of decision. We have included the comments from the other committees in the setting, and then we have included the decisions that we do not choose to endorse. The people who have been successfully completed have only been removed from the configuration, for there is still a new message in the message. There the government has announced that they will come back later, in the revised or next year's budget: they are in the setting, and we are waiting for it to actually come in the budget before we sign out. For many of the decisions, the Government states that they will notify through the budget how they will implement the decisions and when they will do so, and that they will also write that the Committee has not commented on them. It is in the best interests of us, but as a control committee, we do not accept the decision until it is implemented. There is not only one review in the budget. So there are 153 decisions that we're not going to confirm, and 16 of them are from the year before. I think there are many people who have not been implemented, and I did not think that is good enough by the government. I would also like to say that in the committee we are not certain whether or not it has been signed out. The Committee agrees with the decisions, but we have some different comments on the follow-up. I want to take just a few examples, from the Ministry of Oil and Energy and from the Ministry of Agriculture. None of them were here, but that's the way it is. When it comes to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, there are quite a few appeal decisions about the follow-up of Enova. In those decisions, the government has only replied that they refer here to an agreement with Enova that will apply from 2017 to 2020, and then they will return with it in the budget to the autumn. That's what the government writes. At that time, the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment wrote to us that ‘they find it unsatisfactory that the government, through a general reference, refers to the fact that the various decisions have been followed up by Enova’, which is due to apply from 2017 to 2020, and that the government says that they should refer it to the House when it actually owes. We have checked up – at least on the Enova website – that agreement, and he says little about concrete bets, and we find little of measures similar to those in the call decisions. But here, too, the government says that one should come back to the budget, and we in the committee have not asked for any of them, because we are waiting for it to come later. So I want to take one example, from the Ministry of Agriculture. Decision No. 140 and 141 deal with cultivated land. The majority of the business committee writes to us, and I want to site: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the members of H and FrP, refers to Decision No. 140 and 141, both on 8 December 2015, where the Stortinget adopted a comprehensive and ambitious soil protection strategy. In this context, a number of concrete measures were adopted which the Stortinget asked the government to implement, and several of the measures were to be implemented during 2016. This concerns, inter alia, a schooling and action programme for local politicians in Norwegian municipalities, linked to the conservation of arable land. The majority believe that the strategy does not appear to have been sufficiently followed up by the government.’ It was the feedback from the Business Committee on call decisions. I agree with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and have said that, in view of this, we do not see the decisions which have been satisfactorily followed up. There's a lot of other examples I could have taken, but there's 153 decisions that haven't been signed out. That's what I think I'm too many.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e325	I'll be brief. I agree with the President-in-Office's introduction and good information. There is a comprehensive case with nearly 500 decisions to be reviewed, and I personally agree with the rapporteur's assessment that it should be possible for the expert committees to be sent in order to improve their involvement in these matters. I just want to make a few comments about the health and care sector, where the Centre Party has some specific comments. There are three points that I will briefly mention. We believe that what has been said about higher growth in the allocation of psychiatry than in somatics has not been well followed up by government. Furthermore, the government said to have local management as a general rule in the management of our hospitals, has not followed up. We see very well around the country that local management is neither defined with clear content nor has gained a greater extent. Local management is essential for the efficient operation of our hospitals. One must then also define what is the content of local management, namely that it is a person with budgetary responsibilities, responsibilities and professional responsibility, and it is also something far more than one who receives a bouquet of flowers when the hospital is visited. The last is the difficult situation in which LAR-treated women are in – that they are informed about the consequences of LAR-treatment in pregnancy, and an offer for the tapering of LAR-medications. It is, in our opinion, also not satisfactorily followed up. There are also a number of comments from a majority of the Committee and where the Right Party and the Progressive Party are alone. The central party is in favour of the majority comments, and I would ask the state councils to note that on the points where the Right and the Advance Party are alone, it is therefore a majority that the government has not done enough work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e338	I would first of all like to thank the case rapporteur for a comprehensive work on the review of the request and investigation decisions during the 2015-2016 major period. With a total of 477 decisions, this is quite a lot of work. Similarly, I would like to thank the Committee secretariats for the solid assistance they have given us in this area. As regards the Committee's comments, the Right Party and the Progressive Party have some dissenting comments on 15 decisions. I'm not going to go through these right now, but just as an example, I can show that within the Oil and Energy Department on Decision No. 50 we say from the Right and Advance Party: ‘The members of the Committee of the Right and the Progressive Party refer to the letter of the Ministry of Oil and Energy dated 19 December 2016 on the follow-up to the request decision, and will note that the majority of the Scientific Committee did not comment on the follow-up to the Decision, as set out in paragraph 1. Inner. [[2016-2017]] 9 S The other special comments from us were similar. On the basis of the amount of request and investigation decisions given by the Stortinget to the government, the Progress Party will lend its support to a solid effort to follow up the request and investigation decisions of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e352	I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur both for the presentation here today and not least for the work on the matter, and I would also like to say the cooperation on the matter in the committee. That means that we can facilitate a well-considered and balanced debate. As far as the number of requests is concerned, there is an increase in the number of requests and, in line with experience, the parliamentary situation is often involved. Minority governments will have more good advice, majority councils, from this Chamber than a majority government, which will often use its parliamentary basis to block also good proposals that may have emerged in this House. So I can well suggest that in the periods of minority governments, there might be a little bit of over-the-counter request decisions, while there may be too few initiatives being launched when it's a majority government. You can reflect on this, and also that it will be in the interest of Storting to gather more, both in numbers and in thematic choices, the ability to concreteise the orders, which will give less discussion as to whether the advice has been followed and the requests have been followed up. In the end, there will always be a remainder for interpretation, where the government in the best sense and the government parties and their supporters will consider it to have been squeezed out, while, of course, the opposition in its nature will point to shortcomings it may still have to exist. Let me be a little specific in terms of Lundtigen's three objections, and drew attention to one of the three points he had, namely, that of the Stortinget on special issues and on specific sectors to provide for a special budgetary increase. It is quite wise that the budget management of the Grand Duchy is as it is, that we take the resource discussion and the balances and the measurement of resources in the various areas of society in the context of budgetary work. It is the Storting itself that ultimately makes the priorities that cannot be entrusted to the Scientific Committees by means of majority voting, by means of request decisions. If the Storting commits itself to a resource use that is dictated more by recordings, wanting special growth rates for its fields, the Storing will quickly discover that we are opposed to the sum of everything we are for. It doesn't exactly suit a good housekeeper, and fortunately, there aren't many examples of this. But at least that means that we can remind ourselves of this, since the representative Lundtägen was involved in some opposite reasoning in this regard in his article.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e361	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e375	In the Norwegian cultural landscape, new internationally inspired park models for cooperation, conservation and wide value creation are emerging. This is done in Norwegian regional parks and in other dynamic park concepts, such as geoparks and biospheres. These are often concentrated in economically weak areas with high natural and cultural values of national interpretation. This type of park represents a new development model for broad value creation – social, economic and environmental law – that can form model areas for the implementation of the green shift. In Norway, regional parks and parks are under development. The number of parks is still growing, and in a few years it will exist around 9 regional parks that can include about 30 municipalities. This is done with a state anchoring and a national system of regional parks. In 2012, the red-green government established a value creation programme for local and regional nature and cultural parks and raised 10 million. kr annually. The purpose of the value creation programme was to increase value creation and industrial development in landscape and identity areas with specific natural and cultural values. It is about social, cultural and environmental value creation as well as economic. The three-year project that was initially to pave the way for long-term government involvement is liquidated. Despite the lack of enthusiasm on the part of the government, the park network and individual parks continue to work to create development and jobs in their neighbourhoods. According to the international model, parks shall promote a holistic urban and industrial development and living communities in urban and urban areas with such values. This shall be done through the sustainable use of natural and cultural values as resources. The established regional parks are Valdres Natur- und Kulturpark, Nærøjfjorden Weltsarvpark, Finnskogen Natur & kulturpark, Regional Park Haldenkanalen and Telemark Canal regional park. In spring 2017, the following regional parks are under construction: Wefsna regional park, Sognefjorden Coast Park, Okstindan / Hemnes municipality and Varanger. These new dynamic parks focus on the long-term preservation of landscape and cultural values. They also contribute to local value creation based on natural and cultural values by building urban brands for visitors and permanent building and developing local products and experiences. The Norwegian regional parks trigger volunteering and social value creation through long-term partnership and participation based on their own visions and values. They work integrated and in the gap where sectoral governance often comes short. In 2014, the District Centre presented a distribution commissioned by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Their findings show that regional parks represent increased cooperation across municipalities, between public sectors and across public, private and voluntary sectors. However, the involvement and participation of businesses and the voluntary sector varies between parks. One sees that regional park work has contributed to more holistic cross-sectoral development work also from a regional perspective. There has been increased trust between development actors and between different interests. This does not happen by itself. It takes a long time to establish such a park. It takes a long time to build trust, reciprocity, and to realize that working together gives more than working separately. As a relatively new formalised cooperation venue in the region, the new parks have developed high legitimacy after a very short period of time, and it encourages new ways of interacting, including towards state governance. From a governance perspective, regional parks offer both opportunities and challenges, but it is important to focus on the possibilities – the potential to create local, the potential to develop areas that will otherwise be difficult. It actually builds on the cluster theory, which is otherwise well thought out and yields good results in the business world. Building clusters, where an interconnector is across different partners, we've seen everything from the maritime industry to the technology industries and to travel. If you get a critical mass that works together, you get the obvious result. And regional car parks, in terms of coordinating work from different types of travel and local communities to different types of public and business, have added value, i.e. synergies. It triggers funding, although the biggest challenge today may be to obtain funding both for the individual park and to operate a network that can contribute to synergies between parks. Not so everybody has to reinvent the wheel. Those who have established themselves can transfer great knowledge and skills to those who want to establish themselves, and then it is required that one has a hub that can be involved in doing that job. There was a little bit of thinking behind that 10 million prize. kr as the red-green government introduced, i.e. that the funds could also be with and operate such a network of parks, where one can acquire knowledge of changing and so lift each other forward. Long-termity in work is important. As stated in the report from the District Centre, there is, for the first time, a long pre-work before the parks are established, and one sees the results clearly only after a long time, although shorter projects and activities may have an important role to play in giving legitimacy and motivating the partners to work on something that too many are quite complex. Then there are different parks. In the Near Island fjord, which I know best, has a heritage park, which becomes the natural starting point for the park operation. There are also other organisational models you have chosen, but often around a local concept, such as the Telemark Channel, Halden, Finnskogen and Valdres. Together, it will be in Web, when they have established their park. We have learned a lot from other countries in Europe. I myself, as Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, was in Switzerland to look at how they are working on this. There are 900 parks around Europe, and most of them are supported by their state powers. Most of them have also achieved governmental powers in developing some kind of rules or regulations. Unlike national parks, regional parks lack a national legal basis. They also lack national regulatory governance, and there is a lack of state co-financing, which has been implemented with great success by almost all European countries. There is therefore a need to set up an inter-ministerial working group which, in the light of Norwegian practice and European experience, is given mandates and resources to allocate European policies and the management of regional parks and national park systems. In that case, one should especially look at countries such as Switzerland, France, the United Kingdom and Scotland. Furthermore, a breakdown of the basis for a legislative reform and a national system of regional parks and how to finance them should clarify the roles of national parks and regional parks in order to identify the dynamic relationships and synergies that exist. Last but not least, such a selection must describe a national establishment process and strategy for a holistic park policy. This may appear to be a minor matter among many for the Council of State, but for those who are working on it, and for the many thousands who are engaged in it, it is quite a big matter, and I hope that the Council of State can today contribute a positive attitude to how one should develop this work further in a good interaction between state powers, regional powers of government and the individual park.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e409	I would like to thank you for your question, Mr. Liv Signe Navarsete. The Government is concerned that municipalities and areas rich in natural and cultural values should be able to use these resources in their local development work. This is important for example: to ensure jobs, value creation and industrial development across the country. We need sustainable and forward-looking management of mountains and fields and create values that benefit local communities more. We have just presented a big message on sustainable cities and strong districts, highlighting this theme. Many municipalities work well with outland-based business development. However, experience shows that it is demanding to work with this type of value creation, because the outreach management is complicated and unbridled for business operators and users. This was addressed by the Government in 2014 and established inter-ministerial cooperation to facilitate outreach management. The objectives of the work are to strengthen local democracy, simplify and reduce bureaucracy and to facilitate more value creation based on natural resources and cultural values. We have received many recordings in the course of our work and have taken a number of measures. The government makes it easier to exploit the entrepreneurial potential of the outback by making bureaucracy easier and strengthening the local authorities' space of action. We have simplified and streamlined the regulatory framework for the treatment of planning and construction matters. On a proposal from the government, the Storting has adopted regulatory changes for the treatment of private regulatory proposals, which will enter into force on 1 July 2017. The potential to reduce the processing time of private regulatory plans is estimated to be 30-50 pst. And this is important. For the many actors mentioned by Liv Signe Navarsete, the simplification work of the government is one of the most important, because complex management is difficult to find out. That is why we have also strengthened local democracy, for example. by raising the level of objections. Where the previous government gave the state the right, this government has provided support for local democracy where there are no important regional or national considerations to the contrary. Local management of protected areas has been strengthened and we have simplified open-air legislation. Users will encounter more than one door into the system: we will strengthen, among other things. the role and competence of municipalities through more guidance. That's important because the municipalities are the first line. We are working on establishing outlanding as a topic in Umweltkommune.no, where information and resources for dealing with outlanding issues for all sectors will be made available. The website contains links to information, maps, data and tools for dealing with environmental issues in municipalities. This will make it easier for the many actors around the country. The measures taken by the government are well received by both local and industrial politicians in the foreign municipalities. It is not true, as Mr Navarsete claims, that this government has cut the financial support of the previous government established. The red-green government established a three-year value-creating programme for parks, which supported pre-projects and the development of local and regional parks throughout the country. Our government decided to continue the value creation programme out of the programming period, which lasted from 2012 to 2014. In other words, we concluded the program in line with the plan that the previous government had put forward. The establishment of a long-term and committed cooperation agreement in the form of a regional park can be an important and correct decision in many areas. Norwegian Parker has developed a set of criteria for who can call themselves a regional or local park. We see that the development of regional parks continues without a specific national initiative. Therefore, the government does not see the need to establish criteria for regional parks. Through the value creation programme, we found that some areas chose to go further in their efforts to establish themselves as a regional park. At the same time, we know that regional park as an organisational form is not suitable for everyone. The Government is concerned that all municipalities that wish to invest in natural and cultural values in their development work are given the opportunity to do so, regardless of the form of organisation. We're making this right. I would also like to stress that the government has contributed to a good growth in the municipal income framework. Yes, there has been a significantly stronger growth during this government than it was under the red-green government. Over the period 2013–2016, there have been an average of 1.3 pst. growth measured per capita, while there was less than half under the red-green government. We see that the operating results in the municipalities are good, and that there is less on the ROBEK list than ever. This is also important, because the representative Navarsete is arranging for a programme worth a few million kroner. We have made provision for good growth in the local economy, which enables municipalities to do their own priorities. Municipalities also receive regional development funds. Parks may apply for financial support through these funds. We know, among other things: that the district of Østfold will give priority to supporting the development of the Haldenkanal Regional Park with regional development funds in 2017. We also have two targeted schemes for municipalities and businesses and others who want to invest in nature and culture-based value creation. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has announced 10 million. kr to a five-year pilot scheme for the simplification of land management. We are also in the last year of a five-year programme of value creation and industrial development in mountain areas. This programme includes, inter alia: Valdres Natur- und Kulturpark received support. In this way, the government will support regional and local development activities, including: in the parks, but we do not see the need for new investigations in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e437	There was a disappointing response from the Council of State. I think there are a lot of people around the country who are following today and who are disappointed that the Council of State does not see the value of the work that is being done, but just put it in a parentheses and give an estimation of general measures that the government has taken. It is good to simplify the management of outlanding and construction and to strengthen those who have objections, and it is good to have local security management. But it is very strange that the Council of State, which comes from the Right Party, which usually looks very much at Europe and what is happening in other EU countries, does not see in this context the value of a model of development used across large parts of Europe. France, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Scotland are perhaps the most important examples, but one finds it in most European countries, and one finds that government powers are involved in both the development of a regulatory framework, a national model for each country, and also in the provision of financial support to rebuild these regional parks. State councils have themselves started the District Centre to evaluate this work, and according to their evaluation, it is clear that it provides added value in very many areas. The centre party is busy developing this further. We want to add 5 million. The revised national budget, as an opportunity for the park network to take over the parks that are now to be developed, as well as to lift the concept. If we come into government, this will be an area we want to work more to develop, because we see that it produces results. And it's the government's own distribution that shows that there's good results in a lot of areas. When it comes to the economic development of the municipalities, it would be interesting to know how many millions and how many annual works have now been used in this period to discuss the various combinations of municipalities and regions. One could probably subtract quite large sums, that's what they say locally when it's what they've gotten the chance to do in this period. But it probably doesn't have to do with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e450	I must admit that I am amazed at the response of the representative Liv Signe Navarsete, who represents a party that has been in government for eight years and that has not helped to simplify the management of the field. Liv Signe Navarsete comes from a party that talks loudly about local democracy and entrepreneurs in District Norway, but that actually gave the SV power and influence in these matters. Where our government has contributed to simplification, bureaucratisation and guidance, and where we now want to establish one door for all the creative men and women across the country who are working to exploit nature and culture values, we see that the Central Party's answer is to have an investigation, and that you want to grant $5 million. kr in the revised national budget. I'm sure it's fine with five million. kr in the revised national budget, but I think it means far more the simplification work undertaken by the government, the results we have achieved, and not least that there is a government that has contributed to good growth in the local economy – significantly stronger growth than under the previous, red-green, government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e455	I want to begin by commending the interpellant for raising the question of nature and culture parks in Norway. The regional park system is well established in Europe. There are many of them in Switzerland, in Germany and in France, and we have also had initiatives in Norway, built from below, for the establishment of regional parks, nature and cultural parks, in Norway. Even I have enjoyed visiting Norwegian parks several times. I've been visiting Varanger, Finnskogen, Valdres, Telemark Canal, Weefsna. There is no doubt that this is an organisation between municipalities that can contribute to business development. The purpose of nature and cultural parks is not to manage the land. There is another regulation. What is meant is to have a cooperation where you see the quality of your own district, and coordinate how to manage those qualities, whether it is food culture, protected areas, or cultural memory protection, and to promote this, both for your own population, for economic development, and also nationally and internationally. To get it done, I think this is quite timely. The Christian People's Party and the Left had a note in the budget position of the Municipal Committee that we need a clarification of the legal basis for regional parks, because that's the next step. They do a good job, but it's clear that what you need is a national recognition and a national anchoring, so you get the same legislation that you can build future nature and cultural parks after. On the left, we are definitely going to re-examine the need to investigate a legal basis for a national regional park system in Norway. That's really the most important thing we do. So it's clear that if you get state support, it'll help develop these parks, but it's a smaller thing. Actually, this is primarily about getting a legal basis and then whether the state gives recognition and also helps to provide some financial support. It's going to be a smaller part anyway. It is clear that these regional parks receive a great deal of State support for individual measures from before, whether in the field of industrial development, value creation programmes or in the area of the Riksantikvara, such as that of Varangerhalvaa. There are many things you can look at. I think the government should look at this again and not so directly reject that there is something you want to go on with. Regional parks have a lot of support where they are established, and there is a movement that more people are interested in. I think both government and growth should support in a development where you can locally investigate and see the values in their regions in common, see how you can exploit and further develop the values that are there, while also looking at how you can expand and use them for economic development. I think the least we can do is give them a legal framework, so that they get the same status in Norway as they do in other countries in Europe. Here's a lot to learn from other countries. So the left would think that there should also be financial support. But the important thing is to get started on the legal basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e468	It is very good to right that the cooperation party of the government, Left, is united with us in an important matter. I know a Left Spokesman in Valdres who has been a capable driver, among other things. for the nature and cultural park of Valdres. It is true that there are fires around the whole country that have been important drivers to lift this concept also in Norway. Governments are more busy criticizing the Center Party than telling what they and the government will do with this. He was talking about a door in. Yes, I think that Right is talking about a door to Nav in its time. Now no one will find that door anymore, at least there's a problem for many. He's talking about the simplification work that the government stands for. In my county, they've simplified the police officer, they've simplified a number of freemen, and they've simplified the lead in NHO and Innovation Norway as a result of the regional reform that the government is running. They've simplified the lead at the Sogn and Fjordne hills. Now the Sogn and Fjords do not get the only one in the route at the high hill in the West, as it looks today. They have simplified many municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane. Yes, they're even going to simplify the whole state. It becomes much easier when you remove so many important organisations. I agree with the previous speaker that the most important thing now is to have a legal basis for regional cultural and natural parks. For this reason, the proposal in my main post was that inter-ministerial working groups should be set up to do such a job, also in cooperation with the parks involved. They have chosen a management board and an organisation, so they have confidence in the system that can participate in such a work. I also think it is important that the regional level can be involved, and one should look at countries that have closed very well with this concept. I think it's important that you get a national anchor. It's about legitimacy, it's about knowing that the important work that's going on is being seen. Getting the basis for further establishment and legal establishment is important. And I also think it's important to get something into that network, so that you don't have to use the funding sources that each park creates, to finance a network that can be involved and operate the work in the future. Because I think it's very important that you have a hub that can be involved and drive the work forward. I would like to thank you for the debate. I would like to interpret the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation in the best possible sense and hope that he will also be involved and carry on this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e481	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, had a discussion about local and regional reform. It's tempting to answer that, but let me just limit myself to giving credit to the many forward-looking local and regional politicians in Sogn and Fjordane, including many of the representatives of the Center Party, who are now helping us get stronger municipalities and a strong region in Hordaland and Sogn Fjordane. That will be good, also for the outreach management, because you get more competence in both municipality and county. I am pleased that the representative Liv Signe Navarsete finally chooses to interpret the Council of State in the best possible sense. I can give that back, too, because I believe that the Central Party, the Government Parties and the Cooperation Parties have a common interest in facilitating the best possible use of fire brigades, for entrepreneurs, in rural and urban areas. This is not least important in the many district municipalities, in order to facilitate value creation and jobs. I share the view that the parks have a great value and not least the work that many individuals do. That is why we are also building on the experience gained from the evaluations that have been carried out. We have chosen to go further along another road, and it is primarily by helping to simplify the management of the land and by creating our own programme that is a support for municipalities that work to facilitate jobs in the field and value creation in the districts. There may be a little different tools, but I'm also going to finish by saying that I think we agree on the goal, namely that we should better facilitate those who are working to develop jobs and value creation with nature and culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e492	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e510	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e546	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e556	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e565	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Ketil Kjenzeth on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a limited right of withdrawal for traders in the case of telephone sales of advertising services and the like where a provision to that effect is proposed in the contract law or where the Ministry is authorised to provide for such a limited right of withdrawal in the regulation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e582	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e769	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e779	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e788	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e801	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-05-16.ana.ud189e815	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? Then I wish you a good May 17th. - The meeting's been cancelled.
