ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e78	The representative Trond Giske, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e92	The representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e97	On behalf of Helge André Njåstad, Mazyar Keshvari, Ulf Leirstein, Erlend Wiborg and myself, I would like to make a proposal for the introduction of mandatory health control at health centres and later through the school health service for children aged zero to ten years, where the municipality has obligations to follow up children who do not meet for health control.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e102	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e109	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sverre Myrli. – Other proposals are not available, and Sverre Myrli is unanimously elected as President-in-Office of the current sitting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e129	The first speaker is the chairman of the committee, Martin Kolberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e134	The size will now address a very important issue, the evaluation of the activities of the EOS Committee, its structure and its work. As Chairman of the Committee, at the beginning of this debate I would like to make clear my recognition of the work of the Committee on Evaluation. It has provided the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee with a good basis for the work on the position we are now presenting to the Stortinget today. The rapporteur, Mr Jette F. Christensen, will present the Committee's position as follows. Of course, the other members of the Committee will also make their views known. When I take the floor first in this debate, it is for the Committee to stress that the consideration of aspects of this matter has been very demanding for the Committee. First, a clarification: the work and conclusions of the Committee in this matter are in the capacity of the Scientific Committee for all matters relating to the work of the EOS Committee, not as a control committee, which I see some seem to think. In the light of the progress of the matter, as it appears, it was necessary, in the opinion of a unanimous committee, to clarify the role and powers of the Presidency, all the time when, in the opinion of the Committee, there was confusion in the Committee's position on the evaluation committee. I would also like to stress that the Committee is of the opinion that the Presidency has a clear and clear mandate to set up the Committee on Evaluation and to shape its mandate. The majority also agreed unanimously to the presidency's proposal, but that is not at the heart of the matter. Our case concerns the course of events following the decision of the Stortinget, where the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, as a trade committee, was kept unaware of the further action, contact and correspondence of the Presidency with the EOS Committee on the mandate, and in particular the disagreement on the understanding of the law on the waiver of the obligation of professional secrecy imposed on the members of the EOS Committee by law. The Committee first drew attention to these important issues after the evaluation committee itself asked for a meeting with the Committee to discuss them. Before I should like to make a more specific statement on the Committee's minutes in this matter, I would like to mention two points: It has been stated that this occurred a long time ago and that the issues of disagreement were subsequently resolved in line with the Committee's will and opinion. On the time aspect, I would say that during the entire course of the evaluation committee's proceedings, the committee has been well aware of the conditions we are dealing with here, but would have done a thorough investigation before the final position was taken. - That's the one. Secondly, I see that it is mentioned from several quarters that we in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs are exaggerating this matter, and that it could be resolved in what is called a different way. In the overall view of the Committee, the matters under consideration had to be dealt with before the plenary session of the Storting. There was a need for clarification. The Committee has chosen to promote its position in the form of a protocol. The committee and I are quite clear that it is not common, but a form that the committee chose as appropriate after an appropriate process. I would like to add here – and stress – that the representative, Mr Solhjell, agrees with the Committee's position, but wanted a different procedure, which he himself will explain later in the debate. The minutes of the Control Committee have been made publicly available by decision of the Committee. The Committee has had contact with the Presidency during the procedure. The starting point for sending a letter to the presidency was to clarify several matters that we thought were unexplained as to what is formally associated with the presidency. The Committee called for clarification and clarification of the Presidency's position on the same issues. There are two aspects that we've given particular attention to. One is the question of the Presidency's authority and competence to dispense with the confidentiality provisions of the law. Secondly, as number two, the Presidency’s power to amend the leadership given by the responsible professional committee in the handling of a case. The Committee has received a reply from the Presidency and the correspondence is attached to the minutes. Then I will refer to the Minutes, but here I will reflect some of the views expressed by the Committee. First, on the mandate of the EOS Committee. Int. 159 S for 2013-2014, issued on 27 March 2014 and debated in Stortinget on 8 April 2014, a unanimous remark from the Control and Constitutional Committee that the point: ‘How to ensure Norwegian democratic control of the monitoring of Norwegian citizens by foreign countries’ should be included in the mandate. This was also addressed in the debate, not least by the case-rapporteur, who made a clear reference to this point and stressed the need for this to be added to the mandate of the Evaluation Committee. In the opinion of the Committee, the view of the Storting shall have an impact on further management. However, when this did not happen and this point was first incorporated into the mandate in February 2015, the Committee considers that it was inconvenient for the Presidency to hold out an important premise for the work of the Evaluation Committee for a long time. The Committee was also not briefed on the Presidency’s behaviour. The second point concerns the lifting of the obligation of professional secrecy of the EOS Committee to the Evaluation Committee. There was a disagreement between the Presidency and the EOS Committee on the understanding of the law in the context of the lifting of the duty of professional secrecy of the EOS Committee, cf. The first paragraph of Section 9 of the EOS Control Act. In this part of the case, the Committee wonders whether the Presidency felt that it could exempt it from the obligation of professional secrecy without formalising it through plenary session in Stortinget. The Presidency should respond to the EOS Committee's warnings about possible adverse effects on both the EOS Committee's oversight and the EOS services themselves. This could create a risk that future supervision could be weakened by the lack of confidence in the management of classified information under the Control Act, that employees could be subjected to cross-press by breaking criminal sanctions confidentiality obligations, and that information from sources and complaints was lacking for the same reason. The Committee welcomes the final recognition by the Presidency that there was a need for an explicit legal basis. Law of 13 February 2015. The EOS Committee, drawn up on the basis of the disagreement with the Presidency, has a specific notice to the Grand Duchy, as the EOS Committee has legalized access to when it considers that there is a situation the Grand Duchy should immediately know. As regards the Specific Communication, Document 7:2 for the 2014-2015 EOS Committee, the Committee takes note that the Presidency claims that the relevant procedure lies within the powers of the Presidency to propose the procedure for a case. It is, however, of the Committee's opinion that a specific notification from the EOS Committee should be submitted to the Grand Duchy plenary session with immediate effect. The Committee shall further provide information on the explanation of the Presidency regarding the record-keeping of Documents 7:2 for 2014-2015. The Committee considers that the Presidency’s complaint to the Committee by letter of 19 January 2017 was correct. Finally, the Committee considers that the correspondence we have had between the Committee and the Presidency has been clarifying in this way and has contributed to increased awareness in such a way that we hope we can avoid such events in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e209	In the light of the previous statement by the chairman of the control committee and the protocol adopted by the committee last week, I need to make a few comments on this matter, although it is not about the matter, that is. The evaluation committee’s report but on the Presidency’s handling of the mandate of the sample and some formal questions raised during the work of the sample. Before I go further, I would like to say to the Evaluation Committee and the EOS Committee that I note that the members of the Committee are satisfied with the work of the Evaluation Committee. I can only join this. Of course, as representatives elected by their trust, the Presidency must accept questions, input and criticism from the representatives, whether from one or more of them – even in the group. Nor is it new to the members of the presidency that our decisions and priorities ask questions. On the contrary, we usually appreciate the involvement of representatives on different aspects of Storting's work. However, there are some formal rules to deal with. I'll come back to these. Initially, it is necessary to say a few words about the Committee's choice of procedure in this matter. The starting point is, as you know, a letter from the Committee to the Presidency. The letter asked questions about the Presidency's handling of the mandate of the Evaluation Committee, the legal basis for the removal of the EOS Committee's professional secrecy with the Evaluation Committee and the handling of the EOS Committee's specific communication on the same topic in 2014/2015. The form used in the letter cannot be described as anything other than trendy. It appears to be a thorough attack aimed at the presidency – without it becoming more well-founded for that reason. The day after the letter was received, some members of the committee moved out into the media and promoted their views before the presidency had any real opportunity to give answers. As a form of work, I believe this is clearly critical. The Committee, by this letter, has probably become historical in the context of big business. At least there has not been a similar outcome from a committee to co-representatives in the presidency. The Presidency has answered the charges in its own letter to the Committee. I will not go into all the details of the letter, but I will state the following: In the matter in question, the Presidency has not acted contrary to the rules of the Storting, has not gone beyond its powers, has not violated any law and has not done anything to withhold information from Stortinget. On the other hand, the presidency has lamented some aspects of the matter that we see are not well managed. In my opinion, these issues are largely due to a lack of communication between the Presidency and the EOS Committee and between the Presidency and the Committee. The latter applies, inter alia, to: the questions about the mandate of the Evaluation Committee, which I shall say a little more about later. The time has come to deal with the matter is striking. The Committee has had several opportunities to express its views. In the spring of 2015, for example: Storing the EOS Committee’s Annual Report for 2014, outlining the specific notification and its treatment. The committee was then sent the documents in the case, including letters from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence. Members of the Committee could of course also choose to speak directly with us in the presidency in the course of the proceedings. There is an opportunity for many representatives to use the daily work of the Storting. I have to stay a little formal. The Committee seems to believe that a unanimous remark in their committee position in spring 2014, which was also mentioned by several members during the debate on the matter in plenary, is to be seen as a binding mandate to the presidency. I notice that the chairman of the committee has pointed out that the presidency has no opportunity to instruct a trade committee. I fully agree with that. But that also applies to the other way – a Grand Committee does not have the authority to instruct the presidency. The Presidency, as we have written to the Committee, shall, of course, consider any input from professional committees and representatives, and in particular when it appears from a unanimous committee position. It was also done in this case. However, in the circumstances, the Presidency must be able to allow itself to disagree with the Committee and, on that basis, to retain its original mandate and thus not incorporate one of the four points in the relevant remark in this case. I recall that the presidency had already set up the Committee on Evaluation and given the mandate when the Committee's comment was presented. The question was therefore whether the comment was submitted to the change in the mandate. I have not registered counter-conceptions against the fact that the presidency reduced the sample or gave it a mandate. In other words, there is a consensus that this is within the presidency's powers. The Committee asks whether the Presidency has the power to amend the clear leadership of a unanimous committee. To that is to say that it depends on the nature of the leadership. It cannot be the case that the presidency must follow a majority view without delay. The Presidency must be able to make a more detailed assessment of whether the comment is manageable on a procedural basis. The Presidency shall, of course, have no political agenda in that context. In this case, the Committee's expectation is that, in addition to evaluating the EOS Committee, the evaluation committee would discuss how to ensure a democratic control of the monitoring of Norwegian citizens by foreign states – I repeat: ensuring democratic control of the monitoring of Norwegian citizens by foreign states. This is initially a very comprehensive task, which, in the view of the presidency, would blow up the framework for the work of the Committee on Evaluation. For the Committee, there was an attempt to challenge the SV proposal, which wanted a Commission to assess the overall monitoring to which Norwegian citizens are exposed. In my view, for the Evaluation Committee, it would be difficult to incorporate such a comprehensive issue in addition to what was already defined as the mandate of the sample. The solution to which the Committee had no objections at that time is, to its extent and content, far less distant and far less extensive than the order for which the Committee considers the presidency should be made. I believe that it was – and must be – the presidency's responsibility to decide on the Committee's comments on an independent basis. When we became aware that the question of the mandate was still the subject, while at the work of the sample, the presidency took up the matter again with the sample, which in my view came up with a agreed and good solution. They stated that they would consider those aspects of the theme that were inherently related to the mandate and scope of control of the EOS Committee. As I see it, the report at this point confirms the presidency's point of view. However, the Committee's lack of feedback is one of the aspects of the presidency's regret, and I see that the committee had good reason to expect. However, I find it difficult to understand why this has become a topic again now, one year after the report was completed. The Committees are in a special position among the bodies of the Storting by their powers being fully regulated in the Rules of Procedure. It's not just what the committees can do, it's explicitly what they can't do. What they can't do is deal with matters other than those sent from Stortinget. In other words, the Committee may not be used as an arena or platform for other activities or initiatives. The right of initiative of the Control Committee is, as you know, limited to control matters vis-à-vis management. The Presidency is elected by plenary to perform tasks on behalf of the Stortinget and has an authority derived from this. In the parliamentary field, its tasks are defined in the Rules of Procedure and through long-standing constitutional practices. In the administrative field, the tasks of the Presidency are less formally regulated, but there is no doubt that, for example: may carry out evaluations of the kind referred to here within the adopted budgets. The Committee did not dispute that either. I allow myself to point out the paradox that the committee, which is concerned with keeping oneself within its own powers, is moving quite effortlessly in this matter outside of its own. When the Committee's opinion on the Evaluation Committee's report was forwarded to the Stortinget, there was no formal basis for the matter to be examined by the Control Committee. I am surprised that the committee as a college has chosen to pursue this siding at this stage in the matter. Several things should, as I said at the outset, have been done differently along the way in the handling of the matter by the Presidency and the administration. This has saddened the presidency, and both the presidency and the administration have learned from what happened. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to the following: it has not been contrary to the Rules of Procedure or to other legislation in relation to the issues dealt with by the Committee. The Presidency has not gone beyond its powers and has never done anything to withhold information from the Stortinget. Both a joint mandate and a agreed legal framework for the waiver of professional secrecy, which are in line with the views of the EOS Committee, and the specific communication presented, form the basis for the report of the sample. In other words, the matter was resolved to everyone's satisfaction two years ago. That the procedure up to that time took some unnecessary steps, was not lucky, but has no significance for the result. It is therefore difficult for the Presidency to understand the violent rhetoric used by the press and some of its members. I would like to stress that, with its procedure in this matter, the Committee does not establish a new parliamentary practice. It is not the task of the Control Committee to monitor the Presidency or other bodies of the Grand Duchy on an ongoing basis. If this matter is significant in terms of how the internal dialogue at Stortinget will proceed in the future, we have a major problem. The Presidency also has a responsibility for this, and will endeavour to maintain an open and good dialogue with both committees, party groups and individual representatives on both parliamentary and administrative matters which are important in order to achieve a good working community in the United Kingdom. Superstition tactics and gross accusations of unrooted crime really do not belong in such a dialogue. I hope the control committee in the long run will also see themselves served with a different form in the internal conversation in Stortinget. The Committee will soon start work on a new EOS law, for which a representative proposal has been submitted. I trust that the Committee's attention in the further work will be fully focused on the tasks, framework conditions and developments of the EOS Committee at a time of many challenges in the area of responsibility of the sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e243	The President sees that there is a desire to draw a line from the representative Lundtigen. There is no discussion on this matter, which is a debate on a matter prior to the case, but according to Section 53 of the Rules of Procedure, it is up to the President himself to decide whether to allow a change of line. It's the president's intention to do, and do it the way that we give opportunity, as we do, to one line per party if that's desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e248	It was a very serious matter before the deposit to the staging president, and now it has become even more serious. The letter from the control committee to the presidency was not trendy. On the other hand, it was worked through. What the President-in-Office of the Council is now saying is that what the committee has done is critical, is a siding, is a surprise, it's got to do with the President-in-Office's own vision. The letter from the Presidency states: ‘The plenary session of the European Parliament may entrust the Presidency with specific tasks. The Scientific Committees of the Grand Duchy, including the Control and Constitutional Committee, shall not have that authority.’;» What was the fact in this matter was a unanimous committee. All posts in the Chamber supported a unanimous committee. No one from the presidency spoke against the committee. How, then, can the presidency rise above such treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e260	I suppose Per Olaf Lundtigen now refers to the question of mandate? It was a little unclear to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e265	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e270	No, the matter there is that as long as there is no decision in the Storting, the presidency must balance what is practicable to implement. It is not a political agenda in this; it must be clear. The Presidency shall not base political relations in such a context, but the Presidency shall, in my opinion, have full access to an assessment of how such a matter should be dealt with further. The appointment of the Evaluation Committee and its mandate are the subject of the Presidency. The mandate of the Evaluation Committee was available, so there was a question of changing this. What we saw was that the order that was placed was very extensive and demanding in terms of what one could expect the sample to add up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e275	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e280	As rapporteur of the case, I had the hope that we could now start talking about the matter, and that the department for “peacockery” was now over, but I have to add some comments to what has just happened. I think it is remarkable that the President-in-Office of the Council considers an overall committee and an overall voice from a Grand Chamber in which all parties are represented, as an act which the Presidency should consider on an independent basis. I don't really know what 'overall tactics' in the political and parliamentary language are for anything, but based on the definitions I was able to find after I heard it now, I don't think that's what happened here. On the other hand, I was the case rapporteur for the matter concerning the mandate then, I am the case rapporteur for this matter now, and what has been our aim is to give the Evaluation Committee a mandate to answer the questions to which the Stortinget needed answers. This has been remarkable by the Committee on Evaluation. They have interpreted their mandate in a thorough and good manner. And I think it's strange that the staging president so emphatically takes away from discussing this in the public room, all the time I as the case rapporteur with great interest have read the reader's letter from the staging president both in the evening post and in the form of his own posts about this on his Facebook profile. But now I'm going to start talking about the reason why we're here. I would like, on behalf of an overall committee, to thank the Evaluation Committee for a thorough job. There has been an important work, which has resulted in a thorough report, which will be an important instrument for the Storting and not least for democratic control of the secret services in the future. I would particularly like to say a thousand thanks to the Evaluation Committee for having also formulated the summary in English, because we know that the way we structure the democratic control of the secret services in Norway is being looked at by other countries. We are a leading country in having a structure that provides trust and space for both the secret services and the democratic control of them. We're being looked at, we're being respected. Then the Storting's handling of these matters must also be of such a nature that we can be respected. I would like to point out that the audit of the EOS Committee has helped to detect violations that have occurred in all of the EOS services. This means that the work of the EOS Committee is not only descriptive but also important, and it changes the way the secret services work. It has resulted in the necessary change. This has resulted in a correct change of rules, a correct change of practice and the proper use of technological instruments. What's our goal now is to figure out how to do it in the future as well, all the time that technological development has been as great as we've discussed here several times before, when it comes to the way the secret services work. I do not have the opportunity to address all the aspects of the Evaluation Committee's report now, but I will address some of the points in which the Committee considers it particularly important to follow the recommendations and where we disagree with the recommendations. I would also like to draw attention to points 41.2 and 41.1 of the report – on the solution of the mandate – in which the Committee on Evaluation addresses this precisely with the Norwegian democratic control of the monitoring of foreign states and the monitoring of Norwegian citizens in our territory by other countries. What the Evaluation Committee has formulated there, according to its mandate, is useful for Stortinget to have as a working tool. It's useful for us to know what structures under which we can follow that kind of monitoring. I would like to thank the EOS Committee for that. We are facing rapid technological development, increased globalisation and a much more complex threat picture now than before, and a much more complex threat picture now than when the EOS Committee was set up. The EOS Committee has managed to navigate this landscape. The EOS Committee has managed to cooperate with the services of this landscape, which can also navigate well there. The Committee has noted that the Evaluation Committee points to the likelihood of increased complexity and scope of control tasks and, inter alia, refers to: to the consequences of digital border defence, for which the Ministry of Defence has notified a review. The Committee notes that the Evaluation Committee considers it difficult to extend parliamentary control of the secret services without a review of the whole model of control. It's very important. That recognition is one of the most important things we are left with after the report. That is why, as the case-law rapporteur, I took the initiative to propose that the government review the entire E-Services Act and adjust the possibility for the EOS Committee to control the use of instruments, because that is what characterises Norwegian intelligence, whether it is the democratic control of its or its political governance, is that it is a cooperation for a common goal: a safe Norway with free and secure citizens. The basis for this is that there is confidence that the means to achieve it are being used as they should. In its comments, the Committee supports the Committee's proposal to repeal the specific control directive and to merge the provisions on the operation of the EOS Committee into the EOS Control Act. The members of the Committee have tabled a draft representative on this subject, and I refer to it. The evaluation committee has mainly proposed a continuation of the control area of the EOS Committee. In it, there is certainty that the area has been comprehensive and that the work of the EOS Committee has met the needs of our society for control. So the way we've set up the EOS selection up until now has been right. However, one change is proposed, and that is that control of clearance cases is added to another control authority. The Committee disagrees. Clearance has been a recurring discussion in this Chamber, and the Committee and the Storting have been very pleased with the way the EOS Committee has dealt with it. That it is mentioned in the annual report of the EOS Committee, and that in that discussion we have been able to talk about this and have been able to have discussions on this in the main hall, with the Council of State present, in the light of the annual report of the EOS Committee, has been helpful. I feel that it has contributed to change and progress in that work, at least when you have heard how the Council of State has formulated this. I am satisfied with the way the work has been done. That it has been mentioned in the annual report and that progress in the work has been discussed in the Stortinget may have had an impact on the improvements we have seen – this year’s debate is the latest example of it. The evaluation committee also does not propose any specific alternative to this being included in the EOS Committee. Rejection of an application for security clearance can have an enormous impact on the individual’s professional life and is very often based on classified information and classified assessments. Unlike other control bodies, the EOS Committee is fully aware of this. The Committee is committed to non-discrimination as part of the control focus of the EOS Committee. Although the purpose of the Evaluation Committee is not to weaken the control of clearance cases – I have no reason to believe – it is an overall committee that is concerned that this could be an unintentioned consequence if the clearing cases are no longer to be controlled by the EOS Committee. It is important that the control of the EOS Committee is effective. That view is shared by both the Control Committee and the Evaluation Committee – it may not be news. In this context, the Committee broadly shares the Committee's views, but did not wish to weaken the party-political and parliamentary-based composition of the EOS Committee. The launch of this debate has probably not exactly been an advertisement for party political membership and discussions on the EOS Committee, but I would nevertheless like to insist on what is the majority comment, that there is an overall committee that believes that democratic control of the secret services has the benefit of having the legitimacy of a broad political position, if the EOS Committee is composed in the way it is today. The Committee shares the Committee’s view that a different competence — e.g.: legal or technological competence – is crucial, but we believe that it can be achieved within the framework of today’s sample structure. It is fully possible to acquire technology skills, for example, which will be very important in the future. It may be ensured either by combining party political background with professional background by representatives of the EOS Committee or by strengthening the technological function of the Secretariat. The Committee notes that the Evaluation Committee discusses the Committee's limitations on the transparency of the E service. Initially, the EOS Committee has full access rights, but so-called ‘special sensitive information’ is excluded. The situation is that the Evaluation Committee proposes that the Chair and Vice-Chair of the EOS Committee should also have access to this. However, in the Committee's view, such a system could lead to an unfortunate two-way division in the way the EOS Committee works. It is difficult to imagine how the structure will be working on that control further when there are only two of the members who have it in sight and when some members have a worse understanding of how to carry out the control than others. Today, there is a mechanism for the way the EOS Committee reviews and controls that kind of information. It is not that it is impossible for the type of information and the type of instruments subject to it to be subject to control — rather on the contrary. The majority believe that the current system of unupgraded transparent criteria for which parts of the intelligence service activities other than ongoing democratic control should be continued. The majority — and this is quite important — also emphasises that the sample must be able to address matters in this category where they receive complaints. They have that today, it works well, and we want to continue that arrangement. The Committee notes that the scope of work of the EOS Committee is increasing. That's good. It says something about the time we live in. It is important that they have the capacity to take away all the tasks. We share the sample's concerns about the working capacity of the EOS Committee. The job as a sample member requires a lot of time and is estimated at a 20 pst position. It is important that the work as a sample member can also be combined with participation in the ordinary working life. For this reason, the Committee welcomes the proposals to increase the flexibility of the sample in the exercise of control, inter alia. by reducing the number of mandatory checks for specific services per year. I'll say a little bit about how we've in general gone into numerically fixing the number of checks. The EOS Committee has adjusted the number of checks from time to time as needed. We believe that there is a need for control that is the most important factor in the degree of control. The need for it may vary within services. The EOS Committee has shown that they have been good at prioritizing areas that are important, and we in the Committee do not think it is right for us to quantify whether there should be four or six, as a requirement, but that it is up to the EOS Committee to assess where the need is. We believe that the EOS Committee can control this from where there is the greatest need for control. But we have mentioned some areas where there should be a minimum. For example, the Committee considers that: that the intelligence battalion should be subject to mandatory and regular checks by the EOS Committee and that the frequency of checks should be at least once a year. The Committee supports the Committee's proposal that the Special Forces of Defence should be subject to mandatory controls at least once a year. The departments and entities involved in the provision of E-service intelligence should be part of the audit of the service by the EOS Committee, but should not be subject to independent regular checks. The Committee believes that access to unannounced inspections is one of the most important tools of the EOS Committee to exercise active and investigative control, and it is not least the function that makes the EOS Committee so important to maintain and maintain the confidence of both our politicians and society in our E-service. The fact that the e-service provides such good control as the EOS Committee’s annual reports show makes this a strength not only for the sake of individual control but also to maintain the trust that we have. The Evaluation Committee proposes that regulatory changes be made to provide the EOS Committee with a clearer basis for rejecting complaints without further investigation. They refer to the provision applicable to the Civil Ombudsman, cf. the last paragraph of Section 6 of the Ombudsman’s Act. The Committee considers that such a provision should also be made for the EOS Committee. The Committee believes that the EOS Committee should also make its own arrangements to streamline the procedure, reduce the number of meeting days and make better use of the Secretariat’s competences and capabilities. The Committee agrees with the committee's proposal that membership of the EOS Committee should be limited up to a maximum of 10 years. However, it may not be disqualifying in the past to have been employed in the services if the EOS Committee considers that their assistance is needed. Today, the EOS Committee cannot accept assistance from former service staff. In the opinion of the Evaluation Committee, there are insufficient grounds for continuing this provision. It will include, among others: justified by the fact that service-based assistance staff will not be able to compromise the trust of the EOS Committee to the same extent as for example. selection members with such a background. It is an assessment shared by the Committee. So there's one thing that's got a lot of attention, and there's been a lot of discussion around, and that's how the head of the EOS committee can best exercise that position. The head of the EOS committee today has a very big job, and I would like to stress from this speaker that he is doing it in the best possible way. I, as the rapporteur and the other committee, have very good experience in the way we cooperate with the EOS Committee. But the Evaluation Committee suggests that the head of the EOS Committee be appointed in full time. The majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Socialist Left Party, believes that such an appointment would challenge the democratic legitimacy of the EOS Committee. Those are strong words, but it could be a danger. The reason for this is that such a system can give the impression that control is not exercised by toys but by professional inspectors with a fixed relationship to the secret services. There has to be a difference, there has to be a distance. It shall not be «us», it shall be «we» and «they» – «we» shall be inspectors and «they» shall be practitioners. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee considers that the professionalisation of the leadership role in this way could break the objectives of the Evaluation Committee to strengthen the independence of the selection from the Secretariat. Staff shall differ from performers. I would like to conclude by saying that the assessments made by the Evaluation Committee are based on thorough studies. As I've been through in my post, the Committee supports most of them. I would like to thank the Evaluation Committee for providing something that will allow us to discuss it and really find a better solution for the way we structure control later on. I would like to thank you for giving us the opportunity to stop and see how best to organise democratic control of the secret services in the future. It's been very useful. I would like to thank the rest of the Committee for its thorough and good cooperation when it comes to the matter we are discussing today, namely the evaluation committee report. I look forward to the further debate on the report.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e340	The issue we are dealing with now is the assessment of the supervisory function we have against one of it with the most potential to do wrong to individuals in society, namely if the intelligence, monitoring and security conditions go beyond the legal framework they have. We've had the EOS committee for 20 years, which has done a job, and we've had an evaluation committee, which has just told us that the EOS committee has done a good job. Otherwise, I can refer to the findings and comments made by the rapporteur in the previous article in the very best way possible. The Committee is of the opinion that the Evaluation Committee has provided a high-level report which can help us in the further development of the control of these services. During the review of the evaluation committee’s setting, it was natural to come back to some problem areas that the Committee was subsequently linked to the Evaluation Committee, but perhaps even more in the interface of the EOS Committee. These questions were raised with the presidency in a letter dated 11 January 2017. In brief, these difficulties concern the difficulty of the plenary meeting in getting its views through when it was known that an evaluation committee was to be set up and that it wanted to extend the mandate. But worse than that, the fact that the presidency has been harmed in order to ignore the principle of legality in its dealings with the EOS Committee has also come to the fore. When these difficulties became known, and they only wanted it to be reported to Stortinget through a specific message, there was a message that encountered some problems on its way, to say so. But we believe, as I said, that some of the most problematic is that the presidency must seem to think that it can grant exemptions from Norwegian law. The background was that in a letter of 2 September 2014 to the EOS Committee, after an internal discussion on 26 August 2014, the Presidency wrote the following: ‘The Presidency shall release the EOS Committee and its Secretariat from the obligation of professional secrecy under Section 9 of the EOS Act to the EOS Evaluation Committee within its mandate.’ The Presidency’s competence to grant an exemption from the law was challenged by the EOS Committee in letter of 11 September 2014, which included: is: ‘The committee considers that the exemption from professional secrecy must be determined by a law. [[temporary]] The obligation of professional secrecy is given by formal law and it follows from fundamental legal principles that a rule of law can only be set aside by a rule of the same rank.’;» The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee shares this view and has registered that no one other than the Presidency has argued that the Presidency can derogate from Norwegian law. The reason why this is so essential to clarify is that this affects the integrity of the Storting as the central democratic decision-maker in our Constitution. The size makes decisions in the form of law, plenary decisions and appropriations. The courts and the administration are bound by the law, but are also legal practitioners in specific cases. The government has the top management of the administration and is like the underlying departments and agencies bound by the law. In addition, the three state powers have exclusive areas of competence described in the Constitution, including: to ensure a functional breakdown of decision-making competence and, in particular, to realise the principle of power-allocation. The Constitution prevents the Storting from delegating some of its constitutional competences to others, including the presidency. Through its Rules of Procedure, the Storting has provided practical driving rules for the organisation of the work by the Storting, set up subcommittees and related professional procedural responsibilities, with instructions to them to encourage the plenary sittings of the Storting as a basis for decision-making in this Chamber. As the Committees, the Presidency has been given its duties as described in the Rules of Procedure. The Presidency's tasks are related to meeting programming and meeting settlement, as well as the interface to the administrative support functions for which it has the top administrative responsibility, and what else is needed to make the Stortinge an organisation to function in the practical everyday life. The Presidency is not a delegated political decision-making authority. The Presidency is not a body of its own autonomy or is an instance of its own above or on the side of the Storting and shall comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Storting in addition to administrative tasks. The Presidency and the Administration have specific mandates to resolve practical issues related to the day-to-day operation of the Storting. The Presidency is not part of the central government and therefore has no competence to influence or intervene in the administrative governance chain. It is not unknown that the Storing occasionally expresses views on how one sees the government or departments solving detailed questions. Such views are the result of plenary decisions and observations in this regard. No matter what one might feel about the level of detail of these request decisions, the views of the Storting are always promoted in respect of both the parliamentary and the administrative governance chain. Request decisions are addressed to the government and follow-up decisions are routinely reported to the Storting in its own formats. The particular issue in this case is whether the presidency has acted contrary to the principle of legality by granting a derogation from a law given by the Stortinget. The gravity of the case is underlined by the fact that, if this position were maintained, no long-term warning was given of the adverse effects it would have on the services from the relevant departments regulated by the EOS Act. What we're talking about is Norway's security. It was the prospect of having to comply with an uninhibited order from the presidency that could seriously harm these services. The new EOS material, which we have obtained in the final phase of the examination of this matter, has been very insightful for the control committee. It gives the impression that the pressure from the presidency has been more persistent and intense than hitherto assumed. It is understandable that the EOS services concerned have, in their arguments, highlighted in particular the potential adverse effects on them in their activities and the interests they are set to protect. But we can also record that, after the EOS Committee called an alarm in its letter of 11 September to the Presidency, it was also stated at the final reading that the Ministry of Defence, with the support of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, supported the EOS Committee's demands for a legal basis. In some of the answers we received in the presidency's letter to the committee's letter of 11 January, dated 19 January, there is a lot about the process, negotiations and discussions, where it is almost indicated that the government must at some point have agreed that legality was not necessary to exempt from the EOS Act § 9, first paragraph. Now we have the opportunity to hear the views of the Council of State on it in the Chamber today, whether it really is such that the requirement of a law-enforcement institution has been waived. Moreover, it can be noted that the principle of legality is part of the Constitution; it is not at all negotiable between the Administration of the Storting and, where appropriate, the officials concerned in the State Administration. After receiving notice from both the EOS Committee on 11 September and the Ministry of Defence, with the agreement of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Presidency on 8 October will nevertheless write the following to the EOS Committee: ‘The Presidency maintains that the first paragraph of Section 9 of the EOS Act shall be understood as permitting such a decision taken on 26 August 2014 to lift the obligation of professional secrecy.’; You can also ask yourself if no one in the vicinity of the Storting meeting management has asked whether it is the meeting leaders who are supposed to be a task as a law-enforcement body, as legal practitioners under the EOS Act. Of course, that's not the case. I believe that it would have provided the basis for a more constructive dialogue – much more than the President invites – if we had agreed on the following, namely that deviation from a legislative provision requires formal law, and thus the active involvement of the Stortinge in the form of a law revision. It is noted that the Storting itself is bound to make decisions on the amendment of the current law through a formal law decision. A plenary decision is not even sufficient in this room. It is, however, that the presidency — almost on a private basis — assumes authority, without any representation to the Stortinget in any way. There's also another side to this, that it's later that we've got the clarity of this correspondence. There may be grounds for reviewing the full mailing list and the public in relation to correspondence relating to each trade committee. It has been said that clarifications of the mandate of the Evaluation Committee have addressed these legal deficiencies. It must only be said that the problem is not what duties and assignments the Evaluation Committee might be given. The problem of professional secrecy is linked to those who have signed the customs declarations and who work in the EOS budgets and in the EOS committee. Thus, as the Presidency of the Grand Duchy does in this context, the two bodies cannot be equated with the legal framework, which is a free quote from another issue which also led to the EOS Committee. With this wording, the so-called clarification of 27 November 2014, it was unclear for the EOS Committee whether the Evaluation Committee had partly more transparency in some of the activities of the services than the EOS Committee so far was supposed to have. It says a little about what happens when someone who claims to have the legal competence does not have the professional competence to assess what is going on. I think we must agree to note that the presidency was unjustified in dispensation from the EOS Act § 9, first paragraph, on professional secrecy, and that the notice to the EOS Committee as such was a nullity and should not have taken place. In that context, it's quite strange to hear the president say that nothing happened here except the book. Well, I think we can say that has happened – most things have happened outside the book. Is this constitutional formalities that are not so important? There we have to say that the material put at the disposal of the Committee in retrospect by the EOS Committee shows just how serious it was to look at this unwelcome derogation. They write, among other things, in an internal note – I am talking about the EOS Committee: We are the ones who have to provide written and verbally sensitive and highly classified information, information that we have received in confidentiality from all the EOS services, and of which they have no overall overview or extent of sensitivity. It is we who must provide information received from service staff in the form of questioning – the obligation to explain – and from our promised sources and complainants of protection, by reference to the obligation of professional secrecy under the first paragraph of Section 9 of the Control Act. That's the same paragraph they're talking about, which the presidency has asked employees to ignore. Second, they write: Why does the EOS Committee believe that a temporary special law should be adopted for the Evaluation Committee, and what are the considerations? Yes, the obligation of professional secrecy is governed by law. It must therefore be repealed by law. It is the responsibility of all current and former members of the selection board and staff of the Secretariat for individual criminal liability under the Control Act, including: for breach of professional secrecy. It is assumed that the Evaluation Committee would like to interview individuals and employees, who are sensible. There is, of course, a great skepticism in the selection and among employees to break the law – to break the law, President, on the orders of the presidency. They also point to the concerns of the complainants, because they have behaved – as they say – after we have had an absolute obligation of professional secrecy about their complaint. Over the years, the sample has also received information from sources that have been promised that information about who they are and what information they have provided will not be passed on to anyone. So the question is, what is the real reason not to give a newer and special law that solves the relationship with services, complainants, sources and officials? That question also asks the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, why not just do it right away. And finally, why is the Presidency's clarification of the mandate problematic? We understand that the intention is that the Evaluation Committee should have access to the same information as the EOS Committee has, but this is formulated in a upresis way, which is suitable for creating great uncertainty. It is very difficult for all parties, the services of the Evaluation Committee and the EOS Committee, if the Evaluation Committee has to define what falls within the scope of the exceptions to the mandate now set out. We can get into a situation where the services provide information that the sample does not think can be published, and vice versa. Based on the EOS material, we have to conclude that the failure of the presidency to respect the principle of legality created a risk of weakening the future oversight of the EOS Committee because the underlying services would lack confidence, precisely because it saw that classified information could be processed in this way, that employees could be subjected to cross-press by breaking criminal sanctions confidentiality obligations, and that information from sources and complaints was lacking for the same reason. The ambiguities created by the clarification of the mandate of the Evaluation Committee led to the risk of the services providing too much sensitive information. In our letter to the presidency on 11 January this year, we asked if it had been taken steps to get the EOS Committee to withdraw its message. What we're going to remember is that after it got stuck, in the sense that the EOS Committee had the courage to stand on the right footing – the demand for legality – against the violent pressure of the presidency and its administration, they didn't have any other option than to resort to an emergency shelter in the EOS Act to make the Storting aware of the situation the Storting should know immediately. It was not because they had not established any contact with the Storting as such, but because they saw that those who operated on behalf of the Storting did not understand what they were talking about, and what interests were at stake. That's why they're sending a message to Stortinget. Since we received a small lesson in the Rules of Procedure: Section 14 of the Rules of Procedure states that notifications from the EOS Committee should be dealt with in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. We also asked in a letter whether it was such that the Storting had at any time changed the Rules of Procedure on this point. We were told that, for practical reasons, this could be the case in the presidency. Unfortunately, it was an answer to a question we asked earlier, and with confidence in the presidency – which you had at the time – calmed down. However, it turned out by careful consideration that this rule of dispensation, for practical reasons, relates to the professional distribution among the like-minded professional committees. That is not the reason why the presidency can take out a message to one of the professional committees and say: we expropriate it and see what it contains of strange or interesting things. That's what happened in this case. If we want to make formal arguments in order to follow the Rules of Procedure, in which we were briefed – it is a great step forward that we have gradually come up with the Rules of Procedure and read it – it says that it is the professional committees that are required to promote a position, because we have a basis for discussing this here in the Chamber. But this message was expounded by the presidency because it contained a summary of it for the presidency quite embarrassing correspondence, which I referred to instead. I see that the presidency has complained about this communication meeting practical problems. It was issued on 12 December 2014. Then it was referred to the Stortinget on 3 February 2015, while it had hurried around and quietly promoted a change in law that had just met the need for legality, a legality presidency had invested a lot of prestige in saying that you didn't need it. If you look at that bill, you can see that there is a lack of a contextual reference to the discussion, which in itself can also be said to be a breach of the information obligation, which we impose on our government when it promotes something for the Storting. You can study the position of the Frøiland Committee more closely on that point. It was the Frøiland Committee that went through the entire thinking behind it, the time when the information obligation of the councils to the Storting was grounded. Then it is not enough that what is said is true, it must also be adequate, so that the representatives can form a picture of why the matter is there. Why is this one now, and why is it necessary? At that point, we are going to have a discussion with the presidency about whether issues that are presented as legislative proposals should not have the same quality requirements as what we put to the government when it makes its proposals. Another thing that the Frøiland Committee said was that information was separated from the Stortinget. There could be statistical data, where maybe you were wrong on the speed. It's supposed to be okay, but it's not the worst thing if you bomb there. Something else is if there is a basis for plenary decisions. But what you take most seriously is when you turn to the Storting as a legislative body. Then nothing should go wrong, for it is the most serious way the state expresses its will. Then we asked the question if there were any enquiries from the Storting to get the EOS committee to withdraw the message. We were then informed by the newspapers that such an initiative had been taken. But we're going to believe the president of his word when he says to Today's Business also that he wasn't familiar with it. In any case, what we have to conclude is that the notification was not dealt with in a regulatory manner when it arrived at Stortinget. The Presidency has complained that it disappeared to an unknown place for seven weeks before it was then referred to the day on which it allegedly should have been subject to substantive treatment, because the presidency had then liberated it. However, it was released from printing the day after the Storting should have dealt with it, as the presidency claims. We must again demand that it be possible for any representative, whether or not in the relevant trade committee, to contact the despatch office and to obtain the documents for processing in Stortinget. It was not practicable this time. Then again, I just want to refer to what has been said about what seems to be becoming a minor problem among the big ones we have, namely, that they overheard Storting's express desire to extend the mandate. I think that has been well-treated by others. Actually, I just want to make a few comments about the presidency's argument that you can do that -- you can sit down and listen to a joint committee in a position say something, which you can then ignore when the Storting meeting is cancelled. It seems that the presidency has gone a long way in asserting autonomy as an independent body, but the presidency has no function other than that resulting from the Rules of Procedure of the Storting and constructive, concrete mandates to resolve issues of an ordinary, operational nature. When the President says that we need to assess this on an independent basis, this is not the basis of the Rules of Procedure. No such power has been delegated. Where Stortinget has expressed one opinion, our meeting leaders cannot have a different opinion. It's that simple. And if it's the case that a committee comment has demanded too much, it's actually possible to take it up, warn it or somehow tell it that this isn't possible to do. The president was a little bit concerned with his statement that what was completely impossible when the Evaluation Committee was set up was now settled in two days. And that control committee is so bold to put in a certain context, is that the control committee met with the Evaluation Committee, because they had read the enlargement negotiations, they had read the attitude and comments and asked: shall we follow the Stortinge's letter that we should ignore what the Stortinge had, or should the Stortinge's wish be realized? Then we were so bold, too, that we said: you must also solve the fourth point of the mandate. In two days it was clear that there was no problem, and today it is included in the Evaluation Committee's report as Chapter 41. That's excellent. The Presidency argues that only plenary decisions can impose specific tasks on the Presidency. In addition, it is argued against views which have not been expressed. But no one has claimed that individual representatives and committees can immediately impose anything on the presidency, this must be done through plenary. The theme in question is the importance of a unanimous comitology in an attitude to the Storting in carrying out such a specific task as an evaluation. In the opinion of the Control Committee, the unanimous comments of the Scientific Committee on the evaluation should be followed up by the Presidency of its administration. As long as you didn't hear anything, the committee had to assume that you were working to do that. So I want to say a little bit more generally: the presidency cannot have a role as a constitutional counterweight to the Storting, with its own competences, as the independent state powers of the Supreme Court and government have. The members of the Presidency are magnificence representatives like the rest of us, and in this respect they are not superior to their colleagues. Their mission is the practical follow-up of tasks to be solved on behalf of the Storting. Loyalty to the Storting’s instructions is also expected when these are given in an unambiguous manner by a large number, in this case a unanimous setting. The expectations that the Presidency is working to realise the Bighold's expressed practical wishes are more a matter of trust than of whether the Presidency can find formal reasons to ignore the Storting. This has also been shown in particular by the fact that the relationship between magnification and presidency is regulated in this way. The question of trust then arises that it is not a question of formalism, that it is not a matter of exclusive jurisdiction, but of the fact that the Stortinget can at any time choose a new presidency. It is stated in the last paragraph of Section 6 of the Rules of Procedure. It must also be a paradox that the presidency seems to want to deal more unbound with majority comments from the Storing than the government can allow. The government is, after all, a state power of its own, which has a task as a counterweight in the principle of distribution of power. A summary must be this: The Presidency was not entitled to dispensation from the EOS Act. The Presidency did not respond to the EOS Committee’s warnings about possible adverse effects. We must note that the Committee of Inquiry notes that the Presidency did not at any time find any grounds to inform the Scientific Committee of the disagreement. We must also note that the presidency continues to assert the legal position with which they have argued against the EOS Committee, which is the opposite of the justification for the Special Act on the Evaluation Committee, which was promoted by the Stortinget. It is particularly critical that the Storting Administration sought to stop the transmission of a message that provides legal access to direct communication from the EOS Committee to the Stortinget on conditions The Stortinget should know immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e454	A line has been registered – from Prime Minister Olemic Thommessen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e459	I have listened with interest to the contributions of the representative, Mr Tetzschner, and with regard to many fundamental questions raised, I am quite sure that the presidency in and on its own agrees with much of this. There's not everything in this that's related to a contradiction. This also applies to the issue of the principle of legality. It is not that the presidency believes that we can – what to say – go across legislation adopted in this Chamber. But what the representative of Tetzschner ignores is that it is actually an exception we are discussing. It says briefly that the EOS Committee and its secretariat are bound by professional secrecy if nothing else is determined. The question is, Is that not a starting point that we must respect the idea of the legislator? Then there are few leaders for who will manage this exception, and the presidency has had as a starting point that a natural interpretation could be that the presidency took such a role within such a defined area as this is. We're talking here about few people within the same -- let's say -- security zone as the EOS committee itself. I would like the representative Tetzschner to comment on this derogation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e466	First of all, I would like to express my pleasure at finally having a discussion about the realities, because that's where the core lies. In fact, the principle of legality requires that the Storting provide the basis of law, and then they give the law to those who are to apply the law. It is in this case the administration or, if anyone wants to appeal against the provisions, the courts. Our meeting management has no place in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e471	Stortingspresident Olemic Thommess for reply No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e476	So over the years, the presidency has played a role that could be similar. This applies, for example: determination of the National Audit Office’s salary and pension, which for many years — up to 2004 — was determined by the Presidency, even though the Stortinget was the wording of such a role. It's a defined practical area, that's one example. Then that law was changed, so today it's specified to the presidency. Now the end of the show was that the presidency gave its own law, and it has been quite clear to the presidency the whole time that this was not something we wanted to conflict with. It's not that we have, let's say, the requirement to decide this. We have been busy finding out something that would work for everyone, and it is clear that at the moment when there is a discussion about such a matter, there is every reason to be careful about it. But I would like to stress that this is a strictly defined role, which we think is a natural need to take care of in relation to the principles of interpretation that you would like to use in ordinary law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e481	I assume that it was a delay, perhaps of the Freudian dimensions, to say that the presidency gave its own law. It was the Stortinget that gave its own law. It's the Stortinge who's the legislator here in the house. If we don't agree with that, we'll have a long night. The other thing that is my point is that the presidency is not assigned any functional role in the EOS Act, not in the penal code and not in terms of dispensation from agricultural land regulations. When the Storting adopts a law, it gives it to the administration, which then becomes a legal claimant, because otherwise you can't in any way control what the administration is doing. We also have our independent courts to do that. This view presented here by the President is quite interesting, because it is not a constitutional basis. I even want to say that it is highly constitutionally unconstitutional. And no one has agreed with the presidency in their interpretation that they are a central body for granting exemptions from the EOS provisions. It has been the whole argument — that the adverse effects of making it so harmful could damage the content of the services themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e488	The President now sees that some people are wondering that there are so many lines coming. I recall that the President can decide – and that is what the President did in place – on the basis of Paragraph 53 of the Rules of Procedure that there should be one line per party. That is, we have eight parties, and as long as no one has asked for a line, they are at the disposal of those who ask for it. Stortingspresident Thommess – to line no. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e495	I will not continue this, but I could ask the representative Tetzschner how he understands that exception. Does he mean that that exception is something you just have to ignore? Does he think that the presidency should initially have said that this was not well enough justified, and that the presidency itself should, at its own discretion, choose something in a legal text like this? Now, as I said, the presidency chose to give a special law. It's clear that this is the most inconspicuous solution, but I also think that both in the departments and within the EOS Committee, when you go into it, you'll see that this has also been the subject of discussion in these bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e502	The question was, could you not use that home? Competent bodies can use that home, but they're not the presidency. The Presidency is not part of the administration. And if you read the NOU on the basis of this provision, you might have a discussion as to whether this downgrading or exemption from the obligation of professional secrecy can take place at the decision of a department or whether there must be a royal resolution. But the presidency is not meant to play a role here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e507	President Olemic Thommess for a new line.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e513	No, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e518	You don't. So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e525	Now I thought this matter was quite well informed, both through various articles and through an interesting exchange of lines, so there should be no need for me to use the entire speaking time. When it comes to the substance of the matter, when it comes to the matter itself, the case-speaker has done the right thing. There is therefore a broad consensus here that the Evaluation Committee has done a thorough and systematic review of the operation of the EOS selection and in a good way describe its functions and activities. So there's a lot of agreement about, and it's also not what has taken the most time here and been most illuminated afterwards. What we have explained is whether the presidency could and should make things different – in other words, the procedure for the presidency. I would like to stress that the Progress Party on the Control and Constitutional Committee has never had any kind of intention to ‘take’ the presidency in this matter, nor do I believe that anyone else in the Committee has any intention of doing so. But we have therefore joined in the idea that the presidency could and should do things differently, and we have pointed it out, and I am of course glad that the presidency at least partly agrees that things should be different. It's really important. In order for us to be better, and for us all to develop positively – both as an institution and as individuals – it is important that we learn, both from good and from bad experiences. We need to learn from the things that are agreed upon after the book, and we also need to learn from – and take hold of – the things that are done after the book, so that we can get better, and so that we can reduce the risk of mistakes being made in the future. I am very pleased that the President states that the presidency has learned from this matter. Of course, I'm very happy about that, and we do believe in it. There are still some disagreements between the presidency and the committee, things one looks at differently. We also need to find out the venues to record, and if you're going to bring this up at Right's group meeting as well, I don't know. But in any case, I believe that the dialogue we have had in this matter could have been better. And of course, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs should go into it, but also the presidency should go into it, and see if we can have other ways of communicating for the future, other ways of having a dialogue, so that we can resolve things in a better way than what may have happened here. Fortunately, we don't see this kind of disunity very often, not historically – and hopefully not in the future. It's important that we learn the most from this. I just want to stress that the Progress Party in the Control and Constitutional Committee has not had the aim of escalating this matter, but we think that things should and could have been done differently, and we obviously think it is important that we learn from this, so that we can even get better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e546	There is reason to express satisfaction with the work carried out by the Evaluation Committee, and on the part of the Christian People's Party, we are particularly pleased that the Evaluation Committee concludes that the E Service is generally committed to showing transparency and trust through its briefing and organisation for the control of the EOS Committee. We note that the evaluation committee underlines the importance of the checks being carried out without the controller deciding the scope of the checks. It is positive that mutual respect and understanding between the sample and the services have developed over time. It is also interesting to note that the evaluation confirms that the EOS Committee enjoys general confidence and appears to contribute to society's acceptance of the EOS services. The evaluation committee points out that the work of the EOS Committee appears to have had a preventative effect, that the control activities function more rigorously on services, and not least that the services take the consequences of and learn from the criticism presented by the sample. It is important because the emergence of the information society and the development of ever-changing technologies require that we have a clear and principled view of the rights of individual citizens. We know that privacy needs to be balanced against the need to combat crime effectively, and in many cases there will be good reasons for more stringent controls. Consideration must always be balanced against each other. If we do not have a conscious relationship with the fundamental principles to which we are considering, we will almost go unnoticed by the basic principles of human protection and the freedom of citizens, because arguments of value can always be given. So this is not a functional question. It's a value question, and it's politics. It is policy that limits the use of tools, and at the same time it is a field where slipping has been done quickly. Although the policy is set and the instruments are defined, unfortunately we know too well how important it is that the secret services are under democratic control. Therefore, it is reassuring to record that the Evaluation Committee finds that the EOS Committee appears to be performing services in a way that is both corrective and preventive. This is a very important societal task, which also contributes to anchoring, developing and strengthening the legitimacy of services. At the same time, it is important to note the evaluation committee’s view that the EOS Committee cannot be given any role as a guarantor of the services’ activities. Therefore, it is also not the task of the EOS Committee to recognise the quality of the work of the EOS services. It is and must always be the responsibility of the Council of State responsible to ensure that the overall control system ensures the functioning and operation of the services within the limits democratically provided and adopted by the Stortinget. It is important to ensure that the services perform their tasks in such a way that they are not misused. In the light of technological developments, the Committee notes that greater complexity and, in particular, greater scope of control tasks are being identified. Therefore, a review of the entire control model should be carried out, which is also recommended by the Evaluation Committee. This is an important question The Greatness should come back and pay particular attention. In an area, the selection proposes a modification of the EOS Committee's tasks. This applies to security clearances. The background is a desire to pay more attention to this problem. It is also a priority in order to give sufficient space and attention to the implementation of the other recommendations of the Evaluation Committee. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we welcome the need to increase the quality of security clearance control. At the same time, we do not believe that adding this control to other authorities will help solve the challenges identified by the sample. The importance of non-discrimination and the consequences of any diversity of treatment for individual workers and their employers indicate that it is necessary and appropriate to continue to allow the clearing cases to be controlled by the EOS Committee. One of the major challenges identified by the Evaluation Committee is how to strengthen the capacity of the EOS Committee to carry out effective monitoring. Points include: the need for the sample to have a wider range of different relevant competences, in particular in the areas of law and new technologies, as well as the policy scope of the sample already in place today. The latter seems to have been well-managed since the selection was established. There is no doubt that the need for increased skills in these other fields is a need to be present. At the same time, it is important not to be rocked by parliamentary control. Through the system of four out of seven members being politicians with experience from national level while the three others have experience in other parts of social and professional life, one in our view provides an opportunity to meet the need for the more pointed competences a candidate in law and new technologies, without weakening the political representation of the sample. With regard to the disagreement between the Presidency and the EOS Committee on the understanding of the law relating to the suspension of the duty of professional secrecy of the EOS Committee by the Presidency, cf. The first paragraph of Section 9 of the EOS Control Act also wonders whether the Christian People's Party considered that the Presidency had the opportunity to dispense with the legal obligation of professional secrecy without formalising it through plenary session in Stortinget. We are of the opinion that the presidency did not respond to the EOS Committee's warnings about possible adverse effects on both the oversight of the EOS Committee and the EOS services. However, the Christian People’s Party is pleased that the presidency eventually realized that a law was necessary, cf. Law of 13 February 2015. As regards the specific Communication, Document 7:2 for 2014-2015, from the EOS Committee, we believe that a specific Communication from the EOS Committee should be submitted to the Stortingen plenary with immediate effect. We take the presidency's explanation regarding the record keeping of Document 7:2 for information and are of the opinion that the Presidency's complaints in letter of 19 January 2017 were correct. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we would like to stress that the Presidency is not a delegation of political decision-making power or is a body of its own autonomy. We therefore support the Committee of Inquiry's minutes in this matter and believe that the correspondence between the Committee and the Presidency has hopefully contributed to an increase in awareness, so that one avoids the kind of events in the future. Otherwise, I refer you to the review of the case by the committee chairman and the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e578	I would like to refer to Mr Jette F. Christensen's clear statement. I have been involved in promoting proposals for changes to the law in Stortinget on the EOS Control Act, as indicated in the setting. The centre party shall be included in all the committee's comments and in the majority's comments. The Central Party does not wish to weaken the party-political and parliamentary anchoring and the composition of the EOS Committee. So we want to keep the breadth of political positions in terms of the composition of the EOS Committee. Secret services are important for a maritime country. It is important to have democratic control of the secret services and that one of them does not commit any injustice against the citizens – therefore the EOS Committee. After about 20 years, with the blessing of the Storting, the presidency set down the evaluation committee of the EOS Committee, the so-called Solbakken Committee. I want to use this post today to include the first sentence in the Committee's comments. There is a unanimous committee in the first sentence where it says: ‘The Committee will initially refer to the initial chapter of the report, which describes the mandate and legal basis of the sample and will return to it in an appropriate manner.’ [[...]] This is what has happened after a long process through the protocol drawn up by the Control and Constitutional Committee on 8 March, concerning the mandate and legal basis of the evaluation committee of the EOS Committee, the so-called ‘Solbakken Committee’. What is at the heart of the matter is that in a letter dated 28 January 2015, the review committee of the EOS Committee, i.e. the Solbakken Committee, asked for a meeting of the Control and Constitutional Committee. The attached letter was also a copy of the letter from the Presidency to the Solbakken Committee of 4 June 2014. In this coincidence – yes, I would call it a clear coincidence – the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs became aware of the last sentence, where it says: ‘In relation to the last point of the Committee’s comment, I would like to emphasise that the Presidency should not be included in the mandate of the Evaluation Committee.’ In the last point to which reference was made, it said: ‘How to ensure Norwegian democratic control of the monitoring of Norwegian citizens by foreign countries.’ This issue was addressed by the Control and Constitutional Committee in 2014 and a unanimous decision was issued, namely Innst. 159 S for 2013–2014, 27 March. The unanimous opinion states in detail that this was an essential matter for the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The matter was then discussed in a plenary session in Stortinget on 8 April, and, as several have referred to, the matter's rapporteur, Jette F. Christensen, took the matter up carefully. The record says: ‘The Committee requests that the presidency-appointed selection to evaluate the EOS Committee be given the task of discussing the following new issues:’;» And then, where the fourth point was: ‘– how to ensure Norwegian democratic control of the monitoring of Norwegian citizens by foreign countries’ And then the representative says, ‘The last point may be the most central point.’ There were three posts in the hall, and I held one of them. I want to refer to some of what I said, because for me, it was a very important point, what we're talking about right now. What the record says is that I then stressed that it should be: ‘clear distribution of responsibilities between the domestic PST and the foreign E service’. And on the other hand, ‘It is extremely important to have progress. What is also in the setting, given unanimously, is that the sample now assigned to discuss further matters should look at:» So this right over here was the quotation point. I went on to say, "I'll stay with it. It's incredibly important. Unfortunately, we have seen examples that have caused deep concern about this. We have to get rid of the unculture that the Snowden case has shown that we have in that area – yes, it's something far more than that. What we're experiencing is that our NATO allies are acting so that you can really question what's going on. I can't strongly stress that the sample that's going to look at it has to be especially vigilant right at that point. If not that point is clear – that we not only have control of our own e-services or PST, but also that democratic Norway has an overview of what our NATO allies are doing in Norway – then we are out there driving hard. Here there must be no doubt, as it has been lately. I would strongly encourage the sample to take this very seriously, so that you get a different behavior at this point." That's why this is such a central point. The representative Tetzschner went into the lack of legal basis of the presidency to provide the Solbakken Committee with access to EOS information held by the EOS Committee and a legal basis to which the Presidency would first give the Solbakken Committee access without its own law. I would like to join the representative Tetzschner's thorough review of the legal basis. Following careful discussions within the Committee, a letter was sent to the Presidency of the Committee on 11 January 2017 to clarify the Presidency's behaviour in relation to the mandate and legal basis. What became a problem for the committee was the answer from the presidency. It says: ‘The Presidency stresses that it must be up to the Presidency itself to decide whether or not a mandate it has set up for a selection it has set up should be changed. This is in line with established practice. It's the Parliament that can assign concrete tasks to the presidency. The Scientific Committees of the Grand Duchy, including the Control and Constitutional Committee, shall not have that authority.’;» The matter was dealt with in plenary, and no one spoke against the setting. Nor were there any representatives of the presidency who spoke against the unanimous vote, so there was no doubt about what the Stortinge meant in the matter. It goes on to say in the letter from the presidency: ‘On the other hand, the fact that the Presidency should be formally bound to change the mandate laid down in the light of the Committee’s opinion is not correct.’ It's pretty strong that one gets this from the presidency. That is the background to the letter of the Control and Constitutional Committee and that is the background to the minutes of the Control and Constitutional Committee. The only thing that the presidency regrets is that the committee didn't get a copy of the letter in question, where one wrote that one assumes that that point was not going to be dealt with in the Solbakken Committee. It regrets the presidency, that the Control and Constitutional Committee did not have access to it. So we got that through a copy of the Sunbaking Committee when they asked for a meeting with us. Therefore, there is no regret for the facts in this case. What is important then is what is in the committee minutes of our meeting on 8 March 2017. It says, under B: ‘The views of the enlarged Bureau on a case shall be followed up on the further management of the Presidency. The Committee feels that it was inconvenient of the presidency to keep out of the way of an important premise for the work of the Committee on Evaluation for a long time. This point was first known to be incorporated in February 2015.’ And on the other hand, ‘The Committee considers that this raises fundamental questions about the Presidency’s powers to modify clear leadership given by a unanimous committee and dealt with in plenary session of the Grand Duchy.’ What we've been prepared for here today is that the Grand President disagrees with that. The President-in-Office of the Council states that the nature of the leaders is one element to be taken into account. Whether it is manageable is necessary to take into account the extent of the tasks involved and whether the scope of the Evaluation Committee is compromised must be taken into account. As the representative Tetzschner said, it has not been delegated to the Presidency of the United Kingdom to address such assessments. If one in the event did not want to go into what the Storting's unanimous committee position emphasized, the presidency had to come back to the Storing with the presidency's view, so that in the event one had made a change in plenary when it was plenary that took the vote in the first place. In addition, under D of our Protocol to the Control and Constitutional Committee: «In the case of the Special Communication, Document 7:2 of the EOS Committee, the Committee takes note that the Presidency claims that the procedure in question lies within the powers of the Presidency to propose the procedure for a case. [[2014-2015]] It is, however, of the Committee's opinion that a specific notice from the EOS Committee should be presented to the Grand Duchy's plenary session with immediate effect as access to direct access by the EOS Committee to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain should be immediately known.» We know that when the EOS Committee selects the radical medium that is giving a specific message, it's serious. When the EOS committee does that, and in this case, it could mean that the EOS committee got a response from the Storting that they had been wrong. Thus, there would hardly have been any other way out of it than that the EOS committee had to step back because they had understood its role wrong in relation to the Storting's will. It didn't happen. The EOS committee received support from the Stortinget. The Presidency had to change its position. I just want to end by saying that the Central Party is pleased that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has clearly indicated that it does not accept such a seagoing exercise of power on the part of the Presidency, and it will be important in this debate now to find out whether there are more representatives than the Grand President who may disagree with the minutes of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e672	The issue of the evaluation of the EOS Committee and the setting up of the Committee is well highlighted by several previous speakers. There is also a high degree of consensus within the Committee both as regards the substance of the report and as regards the more practical handling of the matter. Let me first say that a well-functioning EOS selection is very important. The EOS Committee has as its primary task the protection of the rights of individuals and the legality of the activities of Norwegian authorities linked to any illegal monitoring of Norwegian citizens. In concrete terms, this control of activities concerns, inter alia,: PST, the Intelligence Service, the Defence Security Department and the National Safety Authority and the verification of cooperation between these services, in particular the cooperation between the PST and the Intelligence Service. The EOS Committee is, and shall be, completely independent, and is the tool of the Storting to control the so-called secret services. Let me also say that it is reassuring that the Evaluation Committee report clearly states that the control of the EOS Committee has worked well after its original intention, and that the EOS Committee is a very important part of society’s overall control system with the secret services. The Norwegian model with its own parliamentary anchored control of the EOS services is also recognised internationally. A few things that I think it is important to draw from the evaluation report are that the controls of the EOS Committee also have a preventative effect, that the controls of the EOS Committee are exacerbating services, and that the services teach and change behaviour as a result of criticism from the sample. The challenge is to equip the EOS Committee to work at least as well in the future. New challenges, but also decisions in this room, such as: to provide the police with extended access to data monitoring, it is necessary to equip the sample for the future. The proposal to introduce a so-called digital border defence – which is strongly opposed to the Left – will lead to an additional need to strengthen the EOS range. We cannot guarantee that there is no breach of the rules in the business of the secret services. The EOS Committee can never become or be a guarantor against improper monitoring of Norwegian citizens, but we can – and should – do what is necessary to ensure the optimum functioning of the EOS Committee. That is exactly the core of the matter we are dealing with today – optimising the EOS Committee. We seem to forget that when the debate rages in the hall. More resources, more unannounced inspections and more flexibility in control activities are key I would like to highlight as crucial if we are to optimise the EOS range. Several, including the rapporteur-general, have been presented to the Committee's follow-up to the recommendations to repeal the specific control directive and to merge the provisions on the operation of the EOS Committee into the EOS Control Act. Although the Left is not part of the proposal for a representative promoted by several members of the Committee last week, of course we fully support that proposal. It is a problem that the Committee on Evaluation makes it so clear that it is not possible to extend parliamentary control of the secret services without a complete review of the whole model of control – a review that the Committee on Evaluation has not carried out. This is something we need to put in place as soon as possible, and in my view, as the committee responsible, we have a common responsibility to take an initiative in this way as soon as possible. There are some individual things in which I have noticed that SV has a different view than other parties. Several of these matters should be discussed in depth, given that we are carrying out a new and soon comprehensive review of the whole model of control. In such a perspective, I will not exclude that the Left will be able to support SV's views on which issues different members of the EOS Committee will have access to, and will be able to free up the sample leader if, after a comprehensive review, it is appropriate to enable the sample to meet new and major challenges and to provide the best possible care for citizens in terms of illegal monitoring. Some very brief comments about the controversy that is in the room today, and as we also see, are mentioned in several media – even while I am talking, I see that there are things online. There is much more that could have been said about the controversial. The question is what good will come out of it, what good will come of further polemics, what it will bring with it. Strong polemics have been used from many today. I'm not going to highlight any single ones, but there's been more from the committee, and also the president. I don't think it'll be possible to come up with a truth that everyone here can join is the actual truth in this controversial matter. Today's round, with the change of words that has been, can easily be characterised as the Greatness's dirty laundry. At least today's debate has not contributed to raising the image of the Great Britain, and I do not believe that Poland serves us as an organ of honor. I don't think anyone deserves to be blamed more than anyone else in this case, and I don't think we're going to get any further blame-sharing. But we all have a common responsibility for the reputation and reputation of the Stortinge, and this is not a good day today – today the Stortinge has not strengthened the reputation of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e691	Let me first thank the case spokesperson for very good and thorough work on this matter. I would also like to thank the Evaluation Committee for providing a report that, in my opinion, was both very good and provided the basis for important adjustments and changes. It is nevertheless that when you look at the report, I believe the most important thing one can read out of him, is that we have a very good control regime with the secret services in Norway, which in a rough way has worked very well. Of course, it has a rather special story, but in retrospect we can say that the important thing that came out of him – in addition to the discovery of the historical – was that we got a well-developed regime. And the changes that are now being proposed, which will be implemented, are, after all, bounded by the main model we have. On most points, the Committee is unanimous on what has been proposed, it has done the case-speaker and others have done the right thing. I still want to pick up some of the points where SV doesn't have multiples, and give us a reason for our vision. These points are not particularly political ideological in character; they actually have only one continuous feature, and that's that we support the evaluation selection, while the plural does not. I just have to say that I think – at several of those points – that the evaluation selection actually justifies its proposals very well and thoroughly, and I am actually a little surprised that I have not received any more support for at least two of those points. The first applies to some very special circumstances – what is called ‘specially sensitive information’ – where the EOS selection does not have the same accessibility to control the secret services as in other areas. My perception – and SV’s perception – is that it is fundamentally important that the EOS selection has full transparency. So it has to be balanced against practical relationships and not at least one important relationship, namely that since this is a matter of hugely sensitive things, many people may know about it, in itself, is a challenge. Not least people who have their political background should be aware of that. In my view, the EOS Committee has proposed a model that tries to meet and balance those points, namely that leaders and vice-leaders should have transparency. Criticisms have emerged, including: from the plural, that it would create kind of a two-digit. In the comments, we have suggested that a possible model could be that the leader and one more member, who could ambulate, had access to control with particular sensitive information. My opinion is that full accessibility despite everything is best, but limited access is better than non-accessible. And I think that the argument that one can do full control in those cases is stronger than any two-way. I don't see it so clearly either. The role of the leader is in any case the leading relative to the others. The other thing I wanted to mention was the relationship between how the selection is composed and how the selection works. The majority, when it comes to the proposal to add the full-time leader of the EOS Committee, wrote that they ‘consider that such employment would challenge the democratic legitimacy of the EOS Committee’. The case spokesperson said these were strong words. I think I'd like to add that there might be too strong words, in my opinion, what the plural here is saying. It's hard for me to understand that it would really be so that a full-time appointed leader should challenge the selection of his democratic legitimacy. On the contrary, I believe that, given that the evaluation has presented us with a selection that is quite pressured on the amount of money and time, this could actually help to strengthen the role of the leader in that work. I don't say, and we don't write in our comments, that it has to be like that, but it should be an opening so that you can evaluate it in connection with a set-down of selections. At the same time, we write in a note that we thought recruitment should be done through open processes, and that it might be that selection members are not selected for more than two periods – again two things that come from the Evaluation Selection. Once again, I'm a little surprised that no major parts of the committee support it. I notice that the representative Raja says that in the next round this should be given attention, and that he opens up to it. It's so nice that the Left will evaluate it in ten to twenty years, when it comes up again, but we've just had a thorough review, so it would be a possibility to do it now, in this round. At the end of the day, two words relate to the question of the process and the protocol, which the committee has presented: as the committee leader rightly said at its inception, I have chosen not to join that protocol. I share with the rest of the Committee, including: the EESC on EOS issues, the criticism of the Presidency’s handling of the process that emerges, such as: presented by the chairman of the committee in a clean manner, I thought. I think it was both right and important to take up the issues where they are of a central and fundamental nature. I think, however, that the further course should have been handled from many sides in a different way, and that the goal should be to actually initiate some kind of dialogue with a view to a more common understanding of the reality of what has happened, but also to perhaps be sure that things in the future should be handled differently from what has happened in this case. It's never easy to be united when you're indisputable, but there's all the more disagreements than this one in the world that's managed to make it possible for you to agree. I record that this has not happened, and we all get to accept that. I support the factual content of the criticism that we have agreed to make in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e712	Our secret services depend on the trust of society that they operate within their legal and political framework. This trust cannot be achieved through normal public transparency in the activities of the secret services, so it is important that a reliable, external and independent control is implemented in addition to the political governance and control that is incumbent upon us as state councils. Since 1997, the EOS Committee has had the job of controlling all the secret services. This is a very good task sample. I believe that the control of the EOS Committee has improved our secret services, and I note that the Evaluation Committee starts its report with the same conclusion. I am also pleased that the Committee on Evaluation is aware that the EOS Committee is not a guarantor of the secret services, but that the constitutional and parliamentary responsibility is always the responsibility of the Council of State responsible. The evaluation committee has done a thorough and comprehensive work on its report. I support the recommendation to bring together the provisions of a comprehensive EOS control table. It is good that the framework for the control of the EOS Committee is clear and easily accessible. I note that the Control and Constitutional Committee also sees it appropriate that the legislation be brought together in one law and that a proposal for a representative on amendments to the EOS Control Act has now been tabled. I look forward to reviewing the proposed amendments when they are submitted to the Ministry for its opinion. I also support the Evaluation Committee and the Committee in that the EOS Committee should be strengthened in order to carry out its control function. It is particularly important that the need for technological competence is adequately addressed. I also agree with the Committee that the members of the EOS Committee should have a political background and different political affiliation to ensure a broad democratic anchoring. I note that both the sample and the committee recommend that the Intelligence Battalion and the Special Forces of Defence be subject to mandatory and regular control, and I support such formalisation of the control of establishments other than the secret services. At the same time, I record that the Evaluation Committee proposes to remove the obligation of a minimum number of inspections of the Intelligence Service. I mean, it's not lucky. The need to control the service is rather increasing than decreasing, and the service itself has requested an increased number of annual inspections. The Evaluation Committee proposes that the control of clearance cases be added to another control authority. I'm recording that the committee is skeptical of such a change. The Committee points out that refusal of safety clearance can have a major impact on the professional lives of individuals and that such a decision is often based on classified information and assessments. Unlike other control bodies, the EOS Committee is fully transparent. The Committee also points out that non-discrimination is an important part of the control focus of the EOS Committee. In clearing cases, discrimination will have major consequences for each employee and employer. The Committee recognises that the intention of the committee is not to weaken the control of the clearance cases. At the same time, as far as I read from the vote, the Committee fears that this could still be the result. I support the Committee's assessment. I want to add that the EOS committee through its control focus has a great professional advantage. The EOS Committee knows the security challenges that form the backbone of any clearing decision. This competence is very important if control and dialogue with clearing authorities are to be credible and effective. It is worth pointing out that about 25 000 Norwegian citizens go through a clearing process each year. As the Committee refers to, part of this assessment and the assessment basis may be graded in such cases. It is therefore very important for the confidence of the clearing house that control is exercised by the most competent and relevant control authority and that control authority is the EOS Committee. I cannot agree with the committee's claim that the legality control of the Intelligence Service is less extensive than for the PST. The activities of a foreign intelligence service are completely different from those of a domestic police operation, the purpose of which is punishment, prevention and control. This is also the reason why the Intelligence Act was designed as it stands today. Although the regulatory framework for the two services is different, the scope of both is equally clear at the same time. In this respect, I would also like to point out that the Evaluation Committee report does not seem to reflect that the E-service is subject to the Data Protection Act and its rules on the processing of personal data. However, it is problematic to question the legal basis of the Intelligence Service. It's been almost 20 years since we got the E Act, and both the security policy and the technological situation have changed significantly. In this connection, I refer to the treatment of the EOS Committee's special communication on the legal basis of the E-service on 21 February, and the review of the E-Law that the Ministry of Defence launched in the summer of 2016, which I briefed during this debate. There I agree with the Committee that it is far better to look at a comprehensive revision of the law than to update individual provisions. The intelligence service, in addition to society’s trust, depends on the trust of its foreign partners and their sources. A very small proportion of the information held by the service is of such a particularly sensitive nature that in 1999 and again in 2009, the Stortinget concluded that it is exempt from the general right of access of the EOS Committee. Compromising this particularly sensitive information can have enormous and devastating consequences and can cause serious damage and loss of life. Let me begin by clarifying that this constitutes a clearly defined and very limited part of the information that is controlled in the service. In particular, sensitive information includes the identification of sources and specific protected officials of some foreign partners, our national plans for occupation preparedness and associated persons, and some particularly sensitive operations with a particular potential for damage to Norway’s relations with foreign powers, which could lead to damage and loss of life for the service’s own personnel and other third parties. Let me make it clear that this is an information of such a sensitive nature that the overall picture is known only to a handful of people in Norway. The EOS Committee is provided with specific information on the number and category of cases that may be excluded from general transparency at the time of each check. The intelligence service has done a huge job of facilitating the EOS Committee itself to apply freely in all systems and thus have confidence that unhindered access to information is granted. The EOS Committee itself has expressed its satisfaction with this organisation. In the autumn of 2013, the Intelligence Service restructured all its archives to facilitate its own deployment by the EOS Committee. The evaluation committee recommended in its report that the transparency of the sample should include particularly sensitive information in its entirety, but only for the leader and vice-leader in the sample. In my opinion, this is no ideal solution for either the EOS Committee itself or the Intelligence Service. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee in its position is calling for the continuation of today's system. I note that this view is also reflected in the draft representative presented. I would like to clarify that the current regime relating to exemptions for particularly sensitive information is also a process regulation of any disagreement between the EOS Committee and the Intelligence Service. This mechanism implies that any disagreement between the EOS Committee and the Head of Intelligence shall be decided by me as Minister of Defence at first instance and then the Stortinget at last if there is no agreement. I want to remind Stortinget that this is a mechanism that the sample has not yet used. The scheme has been challenged by the EOS Committee in several of the last few years’ messages to the Stortinget. We have not served to create uncertainty as to whether the E service is subject to sufficient control. I am therefore looking forward to the Storting as legislator now ensuring that the issue of transparency in this particularly sensitive information is finally clarified. I think it would be most appropriate for the transparency framework to be set out clearly and directly in the EOS Control Act. So I just want to make a few brief comments about the process that has been linked to law enforcement or not to the Evaluation Committee. As several have explained, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice have supported the EOS Committee in their understanding of the need for a legal exception to the duty of confidentiality of the EOS Committee under the EOS Control Act. The notified body, the Evaluation Committee, was not subject to the Security Act and its confidentiality rules. The evaluation committee thus had to be bound by the obligation of professional secrecy in other than the Safety Act. As others have also noted, our assessment was that the services had to be confident that the Evaluation Committee would deal satisfactorily with classified information subject to professional secrecy. That basis was provided in the decision taken by the Presidency in November 2014 and subsequently by the decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to the law in February 2015. The Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice took the view that the Presidency considered its decision of November sufficient to impose a duty of professional secrecy on the Evaluation Committee, but I also note that the work with the Evaluation Committee on Services was suspended until a legislative decision was taken in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e750	Norway needs to protect fundamental values against various types of attacks. Technical developments and changes in the threat picture, both threats from terrorists and threats from other states, mean that we need strong and competent services that have the resources they need to address the threats. We also need appropriate decision support for central authorities. In my view, Norway has just such competent services, and we have ensured that they have good framework conditions. These services must be able to operate without public transparency in the performance of the task and in the information provided by the services. It is vital for our democracy that citizens have confidence that the necessary monitoring is carried out within the framework of the law and are not abused. The Committee for Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Services — the EOS Committee — has an important role to play in monitoring the monitors. The committee must have framework conditions that enable us to have confidence in their work and findings. Technology and the threat picture are constantly evolving, and it is therefore important to be sure that the sample does so and that they have the framework conditions necessary to solve the problem. I notice that the Evaluation Committee in general expresses the fact that the EOS Committee is fulfilling its role and carrying out its tasks well. The control has worked according to the intentions, and there is mutual respect and understanding between the sample and the services. The evaluation committee has done a thorough job and has provided a good basis for further development of the EOS Committee's important control of the Norwegian intelligence, surveillance and security service. The work of the Evaluation Committee has already contributed to further developments in the control area. The report has contributed to the government’s decision to launch legal investigations on the legal basis of the Intelligence Service’s monitoring and on digital border defence. The substantive legislative changes proposed by the Evaluation Committee have laid the basis for a proposal for a representative on changes to the EOS Control Act. I assume that the Stortinget ensures that the proposal is subject to a satisfactory legislative process, in which the proposals are subject to consultation. It is crucial for the confidence of the Biggest and the public in the EOS Committee and its work that the legal basis is not only thoroughly established but that it is also open to counter-representations. It is particularly important that the legislator listen to the views of the EOS services on the proposals. The legislation shall facilitate the performance of the services of their various societal tasks in addition to supporting their control tasks. The evaluation committee proposes that it should be explicitly stated in the law that ‘the monitoring should be organised to minimise the disadvantage of the ongoing activities of the services’. In addition, the law must ensure that the control regime does not impede access to essential information by the services. I aim here at the need to ensure that the source of services can trust that their identity cannot become known to unauthorised persons. If the source cannot trust it, the access of services to information from individuals is confused. In that case, it will be very unfortunate. A common understanding of the legal framework between the EOS Committee and the services is important to ensure that control activities do not undermine security requirements for the source of services. Without security of source, services will not be able to carry out societal tasks. There is reason to hear both the PST and the Intelligence Service before the Stortinget takes decisions concerning source protection. In this respect, I believe that the Storting agrees that the personal security of each source should be ensured equally, regardless of whether it provides sensitive information to the PST or to the Intelligence Service. Both the PST and the Intelligence Service need predictability of source protection. It is essential that this work is done in depth, so that the various ways of organising the work and organising the EOS Committee are correctly understood. As mentioned above, the services have a strong need to obtain information from human sources in order to carry out societal tasks. This need is increasing as technological developments take place, including: due to encryption. The EOS Committee must be able to carry out satisfactory democratic controls on services while at the same time providing the sources of services with a comparable and satisfactory level of protection. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the PST places great emphasis on the importance of the work of the EOS Committee. The legitimacy of PST's work is based on good control and trust from Stortinget to the work being done. PST wants to facilitate the work of the sample in the best possible way. So there is a continuous dialogue between the sample and the PST on how to optimise control. There are also issues in the field of source protection. Services are looking forward to improving the framework conditions for ensuring control activities for the EOS Committee by revising the law, and in particular the PST is in favour of a system where the EOS Committee is set up more freely with regard to the performance of control tasks, including: with the possibility of more thematic transparency, more modern control methodology. It is assumed that this type of approach will provide better learning outcomes for services and help further develop the implementation of social tasks by the PST.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e775	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e791	All foreigners to work in Norway must be registered in the population register, either with a birth number or with a so-called D-number. The last is for those to stay in Norway for less than six months. Since 2004, the influx of workers and hence taxpayers from Europe has increased, while the tax administration is initially organised and organised for Norwegian citizens with birth numbers. As a result, the taxation of this group has become extensive and resource-intensive. The National Audit Office’s objective with the survey has been to assess the tax rate’s efforts to contribute to the correct and effective determination of taxes on foreign workers and traders for temporary stays in Norway. According to its report, the National Audit Office has made these main findings: There are many errors in the equation determinations for foreign workers and traders that are often due to complex legislation. The quality of the D-number base in the population register is not good enough in the sense that it is uncertain how many persons with D-number in the tax population have an active link with Norway. There are weaknesses in the ID control of foreign workers and traders. It is characterised as a serious weakness. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Finance has not adequately arranged for the proper taxation of foreign workers and traders for temporary stays. The recommendations made by the Riksrevision specifically to the Ministry of Finance are that: assesses the possibilities for regulatory changes, which may contribute to the fairer and more effective taxation of foreign workers and traders during temporary stays; together with the Tax Directorate, action is taken to ensure that only persons with active links with Norway registered with the D-number in the tax official’s number: together with the departments concerned, consider introducing ID checks at the personal presence of foreign traders in order to be able to operate in Norway – I would like to add here and come back to it a little bit: how can you give ID numbers without checking who it is really about? assesses how the tax rate can strengthen efforts towards foreign traders so that they comply more closely with the legislation. As the President said, I am the rapporteur on the matter, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Central Party has its own comments on this matter, which at least differ somewhat from the rest of the Committee, and I assume that the representative Lundtigen himself will present it in the right place in the debate. It is, of course, such that the correct tax fixed in a timely manner is a primary objective of the tax rate, cf. The Ministry of Finance's annual budget proposals. That's something we all mean. It's also a goal requirement that 98 pst. of all tax settlements shall be without change. Foreign workers and traders on temporary residence are often subject to different sets of rules, which, in addition to Norwegian tax rules, may be rules for foreign nationals, the rules of their country of origin and tax agreements. And when, in addition, there are challenges related to language, short term residence and poor knowledge of the Norwegian tax system, the majority of the committee is not surprised that the target requirement of 98 pst. is not reached for this group. It is therefore good and necessary that the tax haven has taken action in this area and that the ministry follows this up in its governance dialogue. In addition, information needs to be improved in the sense that knowledge of Norwegian tax rules has to reach those concerned. The rules in these cases are complicated for the case handlers in the tax administration. This could lead to equal cases being treated differently and the taxpayer being discriminated against. All tax regions want a simplified tax rate for parts of the group of non-resident taxpayers, and it has been expressed for a while. As far back as 2008, they took this up with the Tax Directorate. In replying to this, the Ministry of Finance points out that a working group has been set up to investigate the possible introduction of simpler tax, collection and fixing rules for foreign workers and that the Minister of Finance is awaiting the report of the working party before she will do anything. The problem is that the working group report should have been completed by the end of 2014, without the Minister of Finance having requested it. Another of the Riksrevision's findings is that the quality of the D-number base is not good enough because: the number of tax officials who have an active link with Norway is uncertain; and there are weaknesses in the ID check. Cleaning up in the D-number base is, as we read the answer to the Riksrevision, started, and that's good. Much more serious, and this is what the Committee believes, it is that foreign traders get a D-number without a real ID check. That it is possible to obtain such a number without control, e.g. by obtaining it from the Brønn Island Health Registers, may have serious consequences and may not be in line with the government’s strategy against the crime of working life. The fact that criminals can thus obtain assignments from public or unlawfully exploited public systems and systems should now simply be stopped. The National Audit Office’s recommendation that the Ministry, together with other departments concerned, should consider introducing ID checks at the personal presence of foreign traders in order to be able to operate in Norway must now be followed up, says Stortinget. But not only that, the work must now simply give the necessary priority. The Ministry of Finance should also speed up the cross-governmental and cross-ministerial work in progress to improve identity management in Norway. The seriousness of the Committee's work is underlined by the fact that we believe that the Riksrevision should follow up this work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e863	There is broad agreement in the Committee on this matter, and the case-speaker has done the right thing. This is a study covering the 2012–2014 year of income, so these figures are not fully up-to-date with the measures taken in recent years. This is also not a new issue, but it is an important issue that we need to focus on, and I also know that the government has a focus on. Norway has a very high tax rate, a very high tax rate, and it's important that we keep it for the future as well. Many foreign workers who come to Norway come from countries that have a significantly lower tax collection and a much lower tax morality than one in Norway. That's why this is a matter that you have to focus on. In 2014, there were 350,000 persons in the tax manpower groups who had temporarily resided in Norway. This is 8.3 pst. of the tax payers of the country. So it's a significant part of this debt. I am pleased that the Ministry of Finance has set up a working group to address the possible introduction of simpler tax, collection and establishment rules for foreign workers. I think it's an important contribution to seeing if this can be made simple, so that foreign workers at least do not use as an excuse when it comes to paying the tax they have to pay, that they do not understand the Norwegian tax rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e872	This is an incredibly important matter, and I must say that I am quite amazed at how little participation there is in the debate. I would like to thank the Riksrevisionen for once again a well-worked job. In 2014, 350 000 people are on temporary assignment in Norway, and in 2014 100 500 received new D-numbers. So there are a lot of people who are involved in the topic we are now discussing and who have been presented by the National Audit Office to the Control Committee. This applies to temporary residence for up to six months in Norway, where the Riksrevision points out that there are many errors and too little follow-up of foreign taxpayers. The taxation is characterised by complex legislation and a small overview. Here the government could start its work against the time thieves, but we haven't heard anything about it, because here it's really time thieves, here it's really complex, here it's really a lot of people who are engaged, and who are asking for more competence to go into all the wrongs that are here, because here's the legislation that includes both Norwegian legislation and foreign legislation – very complicated matters. This is one of the reasons why the Riksrevision's strong comments, because the Riksrevision characterises the job that the Ministry of Finance and the tax administration have done, as critical. As I was told before, we got an extension of the EEA area in 2004 – an extension that included a very large number of people who had a completely different income, salary and work situation than in Norway. When the aim is the freest movement of workers between the EU and these countries, there is, of course, a sharp increase in the influx of workers to Norway. Many are here on a temporary basis, and they are then regulated by the so-called Broadcasting Directive, which regulates the employment and employment to be applied when workers are temporarily sent on behalf of a job in another Member State, as it is called. The aim of the Directive was to facilitate the exchange of services between Member States and to ensure the rights of workers, including the prevention of social dumping, i.e. in the case of Norway, that Norwegian pay and employment conditions also apply to workers posted to Norway. It is quite obvious that the directive does not guarantee equal pay for equal work at the same place in Norway, and it is now a topic in the EU. The Commissioner for Labour, Thyssen, has said in the European Parliament that if the European Union does not improve in this area, the social and political unrest in Europe will continue to intensify. But here, there is a fundamental disagreement between countries within the Union, because this is about the competitive advantage that people from low-income countries in the EU should have if, for example, one. come to Norway. If one has to work in Norway under Norwegian pay and working conditions, it is no advantage for Norwegian employers to use that type of labour, rather on the contrary, if they are incredibly good and diligent. So we're in a situation where this is incredibly demanding. This has led to negative developments in Norwegian working life, with greater uncertainty and greater differences between people, whether they are self-employed or employees. The National Audit Office’s management report also stresses that the proper D-numbering of non-residents in Norway for less than six months and the correct reporting of income for taxation, whether the person is an employee or is a seafaring trader, and I stress that “a seafaring trader” is very deficient. This leads to a very unfair competition, including between Norwegian traders, between those who follow Norwegian customs and customs and culture, and those who are willing to operate in a border country, and beyond a border country, so that the necessary taxes and taxes are not paid. As others have said, the State Council, Siv Jensen, has written to the Riksrevision, is that the Council of State is well aware of the matter. They are well aware of the matter in the ministry and in the tax department, but there are very non-binding answers from the Council of State when the Riksrevision asks about the follow-up of the Council of State. According to the Riksrevision, it is said that it is difficult for the department and has a high risk, that the equation can be improved, that it relates to the characteristics of these taxpayers that the tax rate can have a limited impact, and that the proportion of foreign economic operators who provide seagoing information has been too low — a number of such descriptions showing that there is a raging error. The Council of State writes that, in consultation with other departments, one will assess whether more persons can and should be required to meet for ID checking in order to obtain D-number. The Council of State also states that ‘it is hardly realistic that any person with a short job or assignment in Norway will be able to meet for ID control’. It is quite special, when we know that the quality of the D-number base is not good enough, because there is uncertainty about how many tax officials have active links with Norway, and there are weaknesses in the ID control itself. So this is a situation where, in the opinion of the Centre Party, there is a lack of prioritisation of the important issues raised by the Riksrevision. Proper tax collection is essential for well-organised business and employment, and without it there will be no fair competition for jobs and jobs. The Government's response to this report by the Riksrevision therefore sheds more light on what the Government of Solberg believes by its wording in Prop. 1 S for 2016-2017, recommendation from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, on page 11, under the heading ‘A safe, flexible and family-friendly working life’: ‘A well-functioning working life with good working conditions without organised crime is essential both for individual workers and for serious businesses not to lose out in competition with unprofessionals. Action against unprofessional actors in vulnerable industries shall be further developed in close cooperation with the industries themselves, and enhanced administrative cooperation shall contribute to a comprehensive response to labour crime.» These are strong wordings. These are excellent wordings, while conditions in the labour market are not as they should be. There is something that the Storting must take much clearer into account, and I hope that several parties address this issue, because this is something that many workers notice every day, that this is not the right place for competition. There are also many employers who see that one gets out of competition because the unprofessional players win over the serious players. The central party joins the four recommendations of the National Audit Office, while ensuring, as soon as possible, that the ID control introduced with the presence of non-residents to work in Norway is realised. Following the assessment of the Centre Party, no D number can be assigned without such a presence and it is an important part of the core wall of a serious working life. We ask in our remarks that the Council of State will return to Stortinget during 2017, now in the spring, to show what has happened. Finally, I am pleased with what the representative Kolberg said, where he asked questions about how in all the world there can be D-number without a personal appearance. The D number is the central one, here you have to make sure it's correct. It's important that we get more attention on this topic. I will once again give tribute to the National Audit Office, which has taken it up, and hope that there can be a greater debate on this in many contexts in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e905	In January I was in Bosnia for the first time, because my union has a solidarity project with the trade movement there. There it is. 45 pst. unemployment and other challenges, with corruption, etc. But the arrangement in Bosnia is so that all employers pay taxes for their additions, so that those who have work are not used to arranging these things themselves. Bosnia is not part of the EU and the free immigration of labour that we have here, but many in Bosnia have Croatian passports, and they can travel around that way if they are so lucky. But their culture doesn't mean they're used to paying in, like the Hagesets were inside. That means that we have to help even more. I am one of those people who would like to welcome immigrants here, but we are forced to have regulations and systems that make it not as this report reveals. I share Mr Kolberg's view and also Mr Lundtigen's view that I have made a very wise contribution to this debate. But it seems to me that the sitting government won't go far enough into seeing how big a problem for our society we've got in these fields, which is that there are so many people coming into our working life. I hope that we can have debates that will allow us to put together a number that will be even more thorough at work in the autumn. In the meantime, we have to make sure that people meet and get a D-number, and that one can't just get it sent, when it's like the Riksrevision has presented here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e912	The National Audit Office has pointed out in its survey that there are many errors in the taxation of foreign workers and traders. I have made it clear in the dialogue with the National Audit Office that the taxation of these groups can improve. The tax system is aware of these conditions and has, among other things, spent large resources to guide and control these groups. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that taxation of foreign workers and traders is demanding and an area of high inherent risk. The conditions developed by the Riksrevision can be largely linked to the characteristics of these tax payers, which the tax rate may have a limited impact on, for example: language skills, less knowledge of the Norwegian tax system, short residence time and less third party information. As announced in my feedback to the National Audit Office, I am following up the tax administration's efforts to meet these challenges in the governance dialogue. A number of measures are now being implemented that follow up the recommendations of the National Audit Office, and I will mention some of them. The first is regulatory simplification. In a short time, I will send to the hearing a proposal for a simplified system of taxation for foreign workers for temporary stays in Norway. Foreign workers represent the significant proportion of the group of non-resident taxpayers surveyed by the National Audit Office. Such a scheme will be considerably easier to deal with for these taxpayers, and more non-resident workers will be taxed more correctly according to the rules. The scheme will also be easier to manage for the tax rate. The second is cleanup in the D-number database. The tax office has previously been commissioned by the Ministry of Finance to clear the D-number database of the Swedish National Register. Now in January, about 1 million D-numbers were marked as inactive in the database. At the same time, the ETA has introduced a time limit of five years for new and active D numbers. These measures will help to ensure that those persons with D-numbers who are included in the tax population actually have an active link with Norway. Foreign workers with an inactive D-number must meet for a new ID check when applying for a new tax card. The third area is ID control. On 1 January of this year, the tax administration assumed responsibility for the I.D. verification by requesting the D-number from Nav, Helfo, the Brønnøsund registers and banks. This results in a high-quality ID check. In addition, the tax rate has introduced new measures to increase the proportion of foreign workers meeting for ID control. Then I noticed that the National Audit Office and the Committee are serious about the fact that foreign traders can get a D-number via the Brønnøsund registers without having been to the I.D. check. It is still the case that applicants are the ones to decide who is to meet for ID verification. As part of the task of acquiring the ID control for other applicants, the Tax Directorate has been asked to identify which groups are going to the tax rate for ID control. Work is now in progress, including: in cooperation with the Brønnøsund Registers. I follow this up in consultation with other departments concerned. As part of the ongoing modernisation of the People's Register, functionality is also developed to make visible the basis on which an identity has been registered. The registry will indicate whether or not an ID check has been carried out. This will provide users with a better information base and allow them to reduce the risk of misuse of public schemes and systems by, for example: crime at work and social security abuse. According to the government’s revised strategy against labour crime, it is also necessary to investigate whether a single establishment should have a more comprehensive responsibility for the management of the ID of EEA citizens. A link in biometrics between the Folkeregister, the passport register and the foreign registry shall also be investigated. Overall, I believe that the government has a good deal of pressure in the follow-up to the National Audit Office's investigation into good identity management and the fight against labour crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e935	I tried to hear carefully after what the council said. One related to regulatory simplification, with simplified taxation. As can be seen from our attitude, there is something that the exterior etat has been asking for for very many years. If I don't remember correctly, it was in 2008, and it's been reminded, and nothing has happened. It's pretty strong that it's gone, and gone, so long, and that now it's going to be sent out to the hearing. I think it's a lack of action. Then we got the second information about cleanup in the D-number database. It was 1 million D-numbers that were inactive – i.e. 1 million D-numbers that were inactive. Those to manage the system, those to control, must be in a rather impossible situation when the base itself has such an amount of inactive number. Furthermore, the Council of State said that it was the candidate who would have a strong word in the team if there was a need for personal presence. I'm almost not surprised at how long it takes to have a system that has so many weaknesses, and that has such a meaning for – in this case – tax and levy, that is, the morality of paying its benefits when you're in Norway, and also a system that is so crucial for the competitive relationship between those who are law-abiding to the system and those who are part of a system where there are huge holes. As I said, not many are participating in this debate. There's a lot of people who say that here we're not going to have the crime of working life, and here we're going to have proper relationships. But when there are such things as what comes out in this setting, and that came out now in the articles of the Council of State, that there are about 1 million inactive D-numbers, it makes a very strong impression on me. And this case we are far from finished with, and it has to be worked incredibly much more thoroughly, because Norwegian work and business cannot live on with such relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e946	I am not quite sure if the representative Lundtigen interpreted my post correctly. Let me just clarify three ratios. As regards regulatory simplification, which has been requested, this debate has referred to a working group that has worked on this. We've now come further than that. I will send to the hearing a complete proposal for new tax rules that will apply to this group of people, and I believe that this is a long step in the right direction, and it is therefore going to be consulted in a very short time. The second in connection with the clean-up in the D numbers: it is through the cleaning work that the establishment has now carried out that 1 million D-number could be put inactive in January – that is because it has been cleaned up. I think that's a good news. This means that the work started by the tax haven has the effect that we get better control of the D-number database, and that it becomes more transparent and accessible to those who are going to use it. I agree with the representative Lundtägen that this is important, that we must have full pressure on this work and contribute to order because it is about what kind of employment we are going to have for people working in the Norwegian labour market. I fully agree that this is important. That's why we're doing more things to make it better. As I also mentioned, we have now revised the strategy against labour-related crime in cooperation with the parties – new measures that will also help to strengthen this. So this work we have a lot of pressure on from more teams and from more departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e957	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e962	It's good that something's happening. But what was at the heart of both the representative Kolbergs and my post was getting the D-number and the ID-check in that context. We are greatly surprised that a person does not require personal presence for those who will receive D-number, because D-number is absolutely fundamental to all economic behaviour in Norway, both in relation to his own economic activity and in relation to the authorities, so there is still a response from the Council of State to: Why does the government not require personal presence to receive D-number?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e968	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court of Justice. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e997	There are two separate reports from the National Audit Office that we are currently examining, Documents 3:14 for 2015–2016 and Documents 3:15 for 2015–2016. Due to the nature, content and thematic nature of the cases, they are dealt with collectively in plenary. So there are two positions from the Committee, one from each case. I want to explain both issues. First Document 3:14, which deals with the work of authorities against social dumping by public acquisitions. The purpose of the National Audit Office’s investigation in this case has been to assess the extent to which the public sector in its public acquisitions pursues the objective of a non-social dumping labour market. The survey focuses on the years 2012 – 2015. The study also addresses possible reasons for the possible weak achievement of the target in this area. It is true that the Storting, for example in the treatment of the 2012 employment message, has been very clear on the importance of combating unprofessionalism in the labour market, such as in the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. social dumping and occupational crime. The size has also been clear that the public has a special responsibility to prevent and prevent social dumping, including: in relation to the treatment of the Law on Government Acquisitions by the Storting, in 2012. The public sector is a major buyer of many different services. As a builder and operator of large constructions and as a comprehensive service provider, the public sector depends on external suppliers and subcontractors. The public sector has a particular responsibility to ensure orderly conditions in Norwegian working life and to prevent social dumping by contributing to non-resident workers not being exploited in the Norwegian labour market. This includes, inter alia: ensuring that pay and working conditions comply with the minimum conditions laid down in collective bargaining agreements and public service obligations. The National Audit Office points out that public enterprises do not comply adequately with the legislation aimed at preventing social dumping by their own acquisitions. Studies show a clear link between whether a public enterprise has established strategies and practices for the fight against social dumping through its own acquisitions and the compliance of its activities. At the same time, the study shows that there may be major discrepancies between systems and requirements at the central level of an establishment or municipality and the practices of the decentralised parts of the organisations where acquisitions are actually carried out. In this context, the Committee is committed to the fact that the prevention of social dumping by public acquisitions must be characterised by a sustained attitude and by the anchoring of legislation in all parts of the administration. I would like to insist that there is essentially an overall committee behind the position in this matter, but there are some exceptions. I'm counting on the parties themselves to prepare that. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to explain the matter as such, focusing on the issues which the Committee is behind. Lack of knowledge of systems established at the central level and non-compliance with internal requirements increase the risk of social dumping through public acquisitions. The national audit considers that there is a need for better public sector knowledge and competence on how to monitor compliance by contracting entity with pay and working conditions requirements. According to the National Audit Office’s assessment, increased knowledge and competence can help to ensure that the public sector contributes more to preventing social dumping. The Committee fully shares this assessment. The National Audit Office believes that the efforts of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to ensure a social dumping-free working life in public acquisitions can be improved. There is an evaluation carried out by the Committee. Many state establishments and municipalities have not taken sufficient responsibility for complying with the regulatory requirements to prevent social dumping through their own acquisitions. There is a need to make the action of the Ministry of Labour in this area better known among those who will apply it. In addition, it is necessary to provide the guidance material more clearly to the public undertakings most in need of guidance in this area. In its letter to the National Audit Office, the Council of State states that one initially has the legislation to which it is addressed, but that the main challenge is to ensure that it is complied with. The Committee shares this view, but at the same time it is important to emphasise the importance of further focusing on good information and anchoring, relevant guidance and, in particular, effective and frequent supervision, as well as rapid response when breaching the legislation. In the view of the majority, the requirements of the legislation are not precisely sufficiently formulated. It's a political responsibility, which the Storting has a special responsibility to clean up. The second report we are dealing with deals with the efforts of the authorities to combat occupational crime. The aim of that study has been to assess the extent to which the work of the Labour Inspectorate and the police against occupational crime is in line with the decisions and conditions of the Stortinge to ensure a serious, good and decent working life. The survey covers the period 2009-2015, with emphasis on the years 2014 and 2015. In particular, the social dumping aspect of occupational crime is addressed in the study. This is due, inter alia, to: precisely the fact that the Storting has pointed to the need for increased effort here, which I have just been faced with. In this setting, the batches are grouped together in all comments on the case. Social dumping in different forms, dangerous employment and tax evasion are very damaging to the financing of our community. That is why we believe it is right for the National Audit Office to review the work of the authorities in this field. There is a broad consensus that we should have a serious, good and decent working life. As I have just seen, social dumping is a challenge in Norwegian working life today. We cannot risk getting a worse standard for the working environment, where criminal actors compete legally driven businesses. The National Audit Office’s investigation shows that the Labour Inspectorate is under-supervised, under-use of deterrent reactions, and police investigations take too long. The National Audit Office considers it critical that the Labour Inspectorate does not have the necessary and up-to-date competence to combat occupational crime. The Committee considers it critical if the Labour Inspectorate lacks competence in such a key field. At the same time, we note that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs disagrees with this. However, the Riksrevision notes that the inspectors of the Labour Inspectorate have little experience of supervision and that the inspectors themselves demonstrate that they need more competence. The Committee therefore agrees with the Riksrevision that further development of competences is essential in order to ensure good quality in the fight against social dumping. The investigation reveals a long period of trial and an unjustified delay in police investigations into occupational crime. Overall, the Riksrevision notes that insufficient investigation, long procedure and weak progress in the investigation make it difficult to comply with the Stortingen's assumption that labour law offences should lead to reactions and consequences for the offender. The Committee considers this to be serious. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the responsible state councils have a political and overall responsibility to ensure that occupational crime is exposed, and not least that it has consequences for lawbreakers. Social dumping and crime at work are something we should and must combat, and we must apply the measures that work. There will be consequences for offences.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1031	As I see it, it is necessary that we see the two issues we are dealing with now, in the context, as the rapporteur has said, but it is also necessary to look at the matter that we have just dealt with related to ID control and the issues that are under the Ministry of Finance, but which are part of a whole. I think it is necessary for us to be able to manage in the context of getting a good picture of what I want to characterise as – as the case-rapporteur has now done in a good way – a very serious situation in Norwegian working life, unfortunately. This must be the starting point for stronger and more targeted efforts to combat occupational crime and this social dumping obscenity. Like Mr Gruvan, I would like to stress that the threat picture is becoming increasingly serious by the fact that social dumping and Norwegian working life are increasingly linked to serious economic crime, tax evasion, violent crime, backers and, on some occasions, what can also be called mafia-like conditions. I refer here in the Grand Chamber to what the Advocate General has also said, that combating the crime of working life must become a central area for all Norwegian authorities in the future. As the rapporteur also said, on a number of occasions the Storting has stressed that a good and decent working life is an important part of what is called the Norwegian model, and that it is becoming increasingly difficult to maintain it. Social dumping is a challenge in Norwegian working life, and we are at risk of getting a worse standard for the working environment, where criminal actors can compete with legally driven businesses. Sometimes in my political work, I have met serious representatives of Norwegian business. They have many times come to me because they would like to have a much more relaxed working environment law. Then I sometimes ask them if they think about whether they're undermining themselves. Then it gets very quiet in the living room. No one's answering that. What is a fact is that business, trade and society are in the same boat on these heavy issues, and in our political work we do not need any weakening of any of those parts to meet what is the unanimous decision of the Storting that these things must have priority, and that they must be combated. I'll come back to this a little bit more later in my article, and I'll put a lot of emphasis on this part of the policy. There is a report entitled ‘Situation description 2014 — labour market crime in Norway’. There are many who are involved: the Labour Inspectorate, the Criminal Service, Kripos, the Food Agency, Nav, the Foreign Office of the Police, the Tax Agency, the Customs Service, the Foreign Directorate and the Ecokrim. What does that say? I quote: ‘The fight against so-called ‘social dumping’ is an important area of concern for the authorities. Through supervision and inspections, the Labour Inspectorate has uncovered unworthy conditions for foreign workers in Norway. The Labour Inspectorate may use its own penalties against infringements of the Public Service Act and the Foreign Affairs Act. A rapid response has been provided for the use of such penalties. Only the most serious cases are now reported to the police.’ Further: ‘The police must monitor effectively the cases reported, both through rapid treatment and adequate response.’ That was also mentioned by the representative of Gruvan. This shows that the main actors in the fight against social dumping agree on the description of reality, which is consistent with the Stortinget. At the same time, it must be noted that the current situation is far from satisfactory. Let me say that social dumping is part of occupational crime. It is therefore natural that we deal with the study on social dumping in the public sector together with occupational crime. That is why the Committee has done so. The public sector depends on making significant acquisitions from external suppliers. The size has therefore established that the public has a special responsibility to prevent and prevent social dumping. It should be a matter of course that the public goes ahead and does not enter into contracts with enterprises that offer worse conditions than is normal in the Norwegian labour market. It should be a matter of course that it was like this. Nevertheless, the Riksrevision Stortinget tells us that the rules are not being complied with and that the necessary procedures are often not in place. The Labour Inspectorate does not, through its supervision, manage to ensure that the rules are complied with and that the Ministry does not do enough – says the Riksrevisionen. We're going to hear the council a little bit later here, but this is what the Riksrevision says to the Stortinget. Then the question is, how can this happen, when so many times it has been said so clearly by a total mass? How can this happen — after so many rounds and after such strict reports from the Storting that social dumping should be combated and that the public has a special responsibility? It should, of course, be unnecessary to say that the recommendations of the National Audit Office for strengthening efforts must be followed up. That's a completely natural thing to say, but I'm saying it now. The more strange it appears that the Council of State says she will follow up – of course, I would say – but to a small extent it is easy to explain how, according to the National Audit Office. It is natural that the present Council of State is now able to explain to the Storting how she will do this. Similarly, I would like to say that it is alarming that the National Audit Office must maintain that the Labour Inspectorate mainly uses mild responses to non-regulatory activities, because the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs believes that there is no evidence for such claims. I think I want to repeat that very sentence, with the attention of the Council of State. It is remarkable that the Riksrevision repeats that the Labour Inspectorate is using for mild reactions, and that one does not follow the legislation, because the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs does not consider that there is any evidence to suggest that they are using for mild responses. I'm just recording here a great deal of disagreement between the Council of State, the Department, and the National Audit Office at this point, and that's all about power, I would say, that this point is also being clarified in this very important debate. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV agree that a person should not use more stringent responses than the situation warrants, of course, but social dumping in public acquisitions is in many cases linked to large national or international companies that we know use subcontractors where there are dubious employment contracts, in order to gain economic competitive advantage over companies that are serious. We know this. In such cases, it is not least necessary that the legislation be very clear, including the strict responses of the Labour Inspectorate. Only in this way will large economic companies with large legal resources, which use large legal resources to circumvent the law, be forced to change their practices – we hope – so that we get a fair competition based on Norwegian law and the Storting decision. The size responded to the challenge of increasing social dumping on the one hand by adopting that the Labour Inspectorate could impose an infringement fee on infringements of the legislation in 2013. The National Audit Office’s investigation reveals that this instrument is being used to a very small extent and that, to the extent that it is used, it is in cases where there is a lack of safety in the workplace. As an instrument of enforcement and respect for legislation, it has not yet been implemented. Then the question to the Council of State is: why has it not been used by the State Council for which it is responsible, when the Storting has explicitly said that it should be used? I gradually experience through a long political life that there are such questions that I wonder about the answer, and it is often difficult to get it out. One of the reasons for this is that the Labour Inspectorate lacks competence, as the Advocate-General said – it has been said – and I join the representative of Gruvan who said about all these matters, and do not repeat them. Of course, we need to ensure that they have sufficient competence, and I ask, like the rapporteur, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, to take this point up and correct it in these circumstances. Furthermore, the National Audit Office’s investigation demonstrates that the Labour Inspectorate has too simple supervision, that there is little use of deterrent reactions, and – as the representative Gruvan said – that police investigation takes too long. An overall committee is very serious about this. That is why, like the rapporteur-in-Office, I say that it is absolutely necessary to establish – and I will use a slightly different word – a mentality change in the police. In fact, I think that in a number of areas this is broken ground also for the police, and of course complicated to deal with, but there has to be a mentality change that makes them actually prioritize this in a good way. So I'd like to end by saying that it's obviously not covered by the National Audit Office's report, but what I want to add, as it says, is that it's the government's systematic attempt to weaken the Working Environment Act. I have been to this Chamber in debates with representatives of the government. This concerns Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and others who were spokespersons for this field in the previous period of magnification, who stood on this pulpit where I am now standing, and said, "We're going to enable the Labour Inspectorate to do this, so this doesn't need the trade union movement to think about, and that's why we have removed the right to collective redress." One of the most important tools that the trade union movement had in the fight for what we saw in the closeness of both social dumping and labour-life crime, which the individual obviously does not have the power to do — the legal right — remove the government, and the majority of the Stortinget. Then it is not useful to get to Stortinget – at least not to me – and to say that we will do this with all the possible tools, when it also turns out that the Labour Inspectorate is unable to follow it up. We knew that. How are they gonna do that? They're not big enough for it, they don't have the skills for it, they're not organized to do it. But this was, of course, a cover to reduce the authority of trade union movement in the field as part of the systematic reduction of the work environment law. That's what they did. It has to be taken into account here. And I listen with attention and excitement to what the Council of State will say about that side of the case, if she still believes that it is very relevant to take away the trade movement from this legal right in an area and in a field that is characterized as so seriously by our own national audit, and that everyone in this room understands that it really is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1077	Now the case spokesperson has done well for this case in a good way, and there is also broad agreement on both of these matters, which are being dealt with together. The one, on occupational crime, covers the period 2009-2015. In the case of the second case of social dumping, the investigation focuses on the years 2012–2015. So these are not new problem settings. There are issues that have been there, and as one in the future must use time and good energy to gather around and fight against – and get things straight. This is a major challenge. As the case-speaker had to say, both knowledge and competence are important in this matter. I would also like to add that we have examples of leading knowledge and competence in some etats that unfortunately do not benefit other etats. Competence may be at the disposal of the Labour Inspectorate. The police can sit on competence and knowledge, and the tax rate, customs duties and hubs can sit on knowledge and competences that it is important that other agencies also get to participate, so that one then becomes better able to fight these important challenges that we have here. Here I know that the government has done a lot, and still does a lot. I would also like to pay tribute to the government for the transnational cooperation that has been established in the fight against the crime of working life, among others. with a new cross-border intelligence and analysis centre — NTAES — composed of police, tax, Nav, Labour Inspectorate and customs staff. Together, they shall develop national threat and risk assessments to help the etats prioritize efforts against, inter alia. labour-life crime. I think it's a reasonable approach, and a proper approach to take, because it's probably historically so that the different ethos are on different levels of knowledge that one can't communicate to other entities, and then one won't be strong enough to make a force attack. So here's a force collection between the different etathans. That's good, and that's why I also believe that you'll be able to succeed in fighting these challenges that this poses, both in terms of labour and social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1086	In all the three things we have now, is not faith enough. It's important to have faith that something can be done, but it needs a completely different level of precision. We have three things. We have the National Audit Office's report on occupational crime, Document 3:15, and we have the National Audit Office's report on social dumping through public acquisitions, Document 3:14, which is the issues we are dealing with now. The previous case, on Document 3:11, concerns the taxation of foreign workers and traders for a temporary stay in Norway. In the reports we are examining now, the natural shadow pages of the EEA Agreement are. It is incredibly complicated, and it is a very demanding piece of legislation designed to address the fundamental weaknesses of free movement. And in many cases, reaction drugs must be used by other countries, for they have been given powers under the Enforcement Directive, to which the majority in this House agreed. The representative of Kolberg says it needs to be more focused on. Unsubstantiated social dumping must be counterproductive. The threat picture is getting ever more serious. I am pleased with the statements made by Mr Kolberg, and I know that the representative of Mr Kolberg is serious about this. At the same time, one has to ask himself the question, How in the world can this happen? It has accelerated under this government, but it was in full swing even under the previous government. It's a fact that those who buy the services, whether they're public buyers, or they're private buyers, are in the short term earned social dumping – that's what's fundamental here. When you have such a strong motive as we know you have when the differences in labour costs are so large, this becomes an enormously demanding job to do. One of the options we have for treatment now, Innst. 104 S, deals with social dumping through public acquisitions. It should be pretty good to do something about it. So it's about government acquisitions. Law of 16 June 1999 No. 69 on public acquisitions, acquisitions law, § 7 allows the right to impose on State, municipal and county authorities and public-law bodies contractual pay and working conditions which are no worse than those resulting from the national collective bargaining agreement in force, or what is otherwise normal for the place and profession in question. In this way, specific responsibilities and opportunities to influence social dumping have been given to the public. But we see that sail in that area doesn't work. It has been a long time since it has not worked, so you really have to ask yourself whether those who are responsible for the practice of the law, i.e. the departments concerned, are interested in following it. I don't understand it any other way than that an impossible person might be interested in it. One is interested in having such contractual relationships where there are many in the chain, which is complicated to control. Because when the law is ready – even the representative Hagesetter says here that this is something that one has to get away from – the whole of political Norway should agree that this does something with it. I have no words to say that it is still possible to obtain such reports, where the National Audit Office says that there is a serious and systematic failure to comply with a law that was intended to impose clear requirements for the publication of an acquisition and therefore for the design of the competitive basis – clear requirements. We know that "the devil lies in the details". Not least we in the Control Committee know how important language, concepts, words and expressions are. Every competent lawyer knows that you have to formulate yourself very precisely in order to get an impact on your vision. It is sad that the public responsible for this legislation does not have sufficient procedures to obtain a tender documents to ensure compliance with Norwegian law. Furthermore, contracting authorities have limited control over documents which can confirm that the pay and working conditions are at least in accordance with the minimum conditions laid down in collective bargaining agreements and public service obligations. I know it's hard. As an EEA member, I really know that it is difficult – excuse me: EEA opponent, so there will be no misunderstanding here. [[muttering in the hall]] With regard to the setting of occupational crime, it is unanimous, and it is good. At the same time, the unanimity puts such a pleasant veil on everything – when we know that there are many things that are not accurate enough, and that make one not get the necessary follow-up. Competence is important, but I have to say that the Council of State has to make sure that the legal and regulatory system is clear and clear – it is the most important thing one has to do here. The legal and regulatory framework must be unambiguous. This could help you not to go to so many courses and seminars to get involved in complex situations that there are obviously no resources to get involved in and not to carry out what you have learned there. Otherwise, I would just like to end by stressing the role of the trade union movement in the matter. I fully agree with those in the trade union movement who are concerned that the role of the trade union movement is weakening. In very many professions, the proportion of trade unions now falls. This also reduces the ability of the trade union movement to do a good job. For this reason, the Centre Party is very concerned about the need to strengthen trade union organisation and to give the trade unions the necessary means to intervene in a way that is contrary to the law. It's incredibly central.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1107	Now we are dealing with important issues relating to our main arena of power distribution, the labour market – or the labour market, as many call it – where we buy and sell labour. It is serious, both in the reports and in the settings of a single committee, that many people have done well. I've been part-time elected both in the first red-green period from 2005 and now from 2013 under the blue-blue, and I see great differences between blocks of party, what one does, and how one does things. In a few years, the majority of the population from 2013, with the support of the party, has moved power relationships miles from where they were. I'm not saying it was perfect before either, but in the red-green years we tried to put down several more fence posts. What we see in today's cases is that the cork government or the rest of us can control and repair ourselves away from all the negative effects of freer and freer unregulated capitalism and competition between people. Some of these people come from countries with a salary level of one-tenth of our lowest wages, without HMS schemes and where the option is necessary. But it's not just labour immigration that gives us social dumping, which weakens the professional combat force. It's the combination of the absence of tools and an ideology that each and every one of them has succeeded in explaining the eternal contradiction between labor and capital. Greed has no limits. Abuse and snuff flourishes in much of our working life, and those who try to drive seriously are, of course, our allies, as the representative Kolberg says. But I think they've become fewer than before. Our responsibility is great. We must return to much more preventive thinking. We need to protect the weakest parties in the bargain for work and secure tax access to well-being, give trade unions more real power and put up with more people than they do today. I run and organize people for union work when I don't meet at Stortinget. I am talking to unorganised and organised in the ordinary profession, not a profession where you can take the laptop with you in a café and sit and work, but the professionals most have, the professions you have in the retail trade, hotels, cleaning and care of the elderly. The degree of organisation in Norway has declined from 57 to 52 pst. from 1995 onwards. Many retiring and temporary forms of recruitment make it necessary to create agreements, and a large number of employers say that it is unfair and not career-promoting to organise themselves. Wherever I go, I am reminded that the strength ratio has changed – changed by law and political decisions in this room first and foremost, which means that returns are increasing year by year in many of our biggest industries, such as industry. trade in goods, while the wage element goes down and workers lag behind as they are more insecure. Therefore, the trade-union requirements are fixed additions and no more freelancers, secure jobs, not embedded. It will counteract crime at work and social dumping. Trade unions will integrate immigrants rather than replace them. Several also call for public employment services instead of today's employment agency, and say that tenants should only be in real vicarariat. In the settings we have here today, it says that the Minister of Labour has not written down the criticism of the Riksrevision. I wonder, like several others, about it. When I heard the Minister of Labour in the Chamber on Wednesday, I realized that she didn't seem to have a say in how life is for most people outside this house. I came to think that this minister was also a social agency in Oslo for a while. She then refused that class distinctions existed in Oslo – and went into the brink of a policy that led to an increase in class distinctions, which the new council no attempt to smooth out, in the same way as the Oslo City Council tries to improve public new acquisitions. In trash, we saw a good example of listening to criteria other than the cheapest possible when getting something. I'm not out to attack people in important positions in a democracy, but I'm scared that so many here don't understand why ordinary people stop voting while we stand here on the pulpit and owe each other for not having done enough, cork before or now. It is not enough for the Labour Inspectorate to supervise the work life – it is to check a perm in a house without a foundation wall, floor and staircase. It does not only help with the competence of the Labour Inspectorate. I think we need to have more competence for all kinds of politicians. More people have to hospitate, meet and discuss the realities out there and the effects of their own policies. More toothpaste is needed in the tube. The National Assembly of the Party must choose the side of a modern civilised working life, not by the way to everyone's struggle against everyone, who we now see so clearly the effect. There are four out of ten companies out there without protection. 70 pst. of the staff are covered by a collective agreement, but the part which uses consigneeship, search. 45 pst. in an AFI study recently says that they are aware of the weakness of their destination. In addition to improving external supervision by the Labour Inspectorate and others, we need to strengthen the profession, the role of trustees and the regional protection environment. A Regional Protection Ombudsman said this week in our district to the Free Trade Movement that the HMS work is weak, that nobody can Norwegian, and that of 4,120 site visits last year, the result was 1,469 cases of stoppage. I agree, of course, with the representative of Kolberg that the collective court of appeal must be reintroduced, but we must reintroduce the common sense which has the basis of changing governments in Norway throughout the post-war period. We are working late and early in SV against increasing class distinctions, against inequality and with trade unions in order to maintain value creation with regulated wage and working conditions – often called the Norwegian model. This model is now so heavily attacked that several researchers have said years ago that we want inequality in the level of France in 2030. Nevertheless, the government continues with extensive deregulations and changes in the law, as well as tax relief and privatisation. For one that only occasionally has its day-to-day function in this room, the contrasts are very high. So good co-representatives: it's good with the consensual settings and adequate supervision and control of a multidisciplinary nature, but we're not just closed with control and supervision. Until we renegotiate the EEA Agreement, we need to re-establish prevention as a strategy, and it includes moaning about a stronger trade unionism and regulating a working life that is now in far too much disharmony.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1141	Finally, I would like to mention that I have lived in this city for 23 years – 22 of them in Oslo east – and I have never ever denied that there are class barriers in this city, but what I have been skeptical about is that the help to be given should be conditional on the address of your residence. Today we are going to talk about the crime of working life. I would like to start by saying that the Riksrevision reports focus on an important topic. We mainly have a clean and serious working life in Norway with good working conditions. Nevertheless, some enterprises and industries are characterised by unprofessionalism, social dumping and crime at work. Unfortunately, according to the feedback from the supervisory authorities, the criminality of work has also become more extensive, more serious and more complex. The response to this type of crime is – and must be – a high priority, and the government takes seriously the criticism of the Riksrevision. In 2015, the government presented its own strategy against the crime of working life. This has committed several agencies and departments to working together. The strategy has recently been revised, further developed and updated. This means that, in addition to a review of the instruments in general, we have also looked at the instruments in the light of the recommendations of the National Audit Office. I would therefore like to stress that a lot has happened in the time after the Riksrevision concluded its investigation. I would first like to talk about the government's work against social dumping through public acquisitions. As Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I am concerned that we should have a working life that works well, and that the applicable laws and regulations are followed. The public has a particular responsibility to ensure that non-resident workers are not exploited in the Norwegian labour market and that wages and other conditions of employment comply with the minimum conditions laid down in collective bargaining agreements and general government regulations. The 2015 strategy contains several actions in the field of public procurement. Among other things, more stringent requirements are now being imposed on orders and suppliers. As from 1 January 2017, two new provisions have been introduced in the public acquisition legislation. First, the contracting entity shall require a maximum of two subcontractors for construction and clean-up contracts. Second, contracting entities shall require the use of apprentices in contracts of a certain size and duration. These measures believe that we will contribute to more tidy conditions and seriousness in public procurement. Another implemented action in the strategy is the development of a guide to best practice in the follow-up to the rules on pay and working conditions in public contracts by the Directorate for Administration and ICT. Divi has also completed a series of courses on the regulations, including: targeting purchasers in the municipal sector and government. The National Audit Office’s survey focuses on the years 2012-2015. DIFI’s supervisor was provided at the end of March 2015 and its effects have therefore not been measured in the Riksrevision study. The revised strategy on labour crime was presented on 13 February this year. The recommendations of the National Audit Office have been important to us in this work. Among other things, we have taken the initiative of a cooperation project with the KS and the Labour Inspectorate to implement information and competence measures, so that the wage and working conditions regulation is followed up more closely in the local government sector. Furthermore, other important and targeted cooperation actions have already been implemented in this area after the period considered by the National Audit Office. Divi, KS, Joint Society and National Association of Construction have developed a standard for the requirements to be met when entering into construction contracts. Cooperation against the black economy, which is a cooperation between the tax haven, the LO, the YS, the UNIO, the NHO and the KS, has developed ten strategic approaches to preventing unprofessional operators from accessing procurement contracts in vulnerable industries, such as: construction and cleaning. Now and in the future, it becomes important to draw knowledge from the various initiatives and build on what turns out to be working well. Another measure of the revised strategy, which I will mention in this context, is to make it easier for contracting authorities to access the necessary information on suppliers. This will make it easier to choose seriously. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries will therefore now look at the possibility of establishing a service in order to allow contracting entities to check documentation and relevant information from suppliers, such as: taxes paid. Then I would like to say a little bit about the role of the Labour Inspectorate. Labour supervision shall contribute to ensuring that the public sector complies with the legislation in order to prevent social dumping. Risk-based supervision is carried out by the Labour Inspectorate. This means that it is important to find those establishments where the risk of serious errors is greatest and it may be more important than the number of supervision. Reactions are adapted to the situation. Work supervision has also focused on the guidance aspect. Often, the combination of guidance and instructions may be best suited to cause the contracting entity to assume its responsibility for correcting defects and defects, and the combination has proved to be an effective response form. The supervisory work to prevent and combat social dumping is also carried out through various targeted industry activities, including: construction and construction, and cleaning. In such more general supervision, supervision also addresses issues other than pay and working conditions, such as lack of training and lack of security for foreign workers. In 2016, the Labour Inspectorate was strengthened by 10 million. kr. These are resources that are set aside to follow the government’s strategy against the crime of working life, not least in order to increase cooperation with other agencies. A key action in the strategy is to strengthencooperation. This is why a number of co-localised centres have been set up to combat labour-life crime. Here, the Labour Inspectorate cooperates with Nav, the tax administration and the police to use the most effective tools and responses. This also applies to relations relating to government acquisitions. Therefore, only looking at the supervisory activity of the Labour Inspectorate in isolation, in my view, will not give a complete picture of how work is now being done to prevent the crime of working life. The ETAs have prepared a joint annual report for 2016 on what the ETAs have achieved jointly. In this context, it is just pointed out that what the institutions have achieved in common could not have been achieved if they had worked separately. As I said, a lot has happened since the Riksrevision investigation. I believe that the measures in the 2015 Labour Crime Strategy show that social dumping in public acquisitions is being taken seriously. The revised strategy presented in February of this year has been followed up by strengthening and targeting efforts. I would now like to say a little bit about the authorities' efforts to combat occupational crime and I would like to take up some of the elements that the Riksrevision addresses in its report. Firstly, the revision points out that the Labour Inspectorate makes too little use of deterrent reactions and that it should be possible to increase the use of such reactions. The assessment is based on a range of issues in which the Agency has used the means to stop work, infringement fees and notifications. In this context, I will highlight an important part of the strategy against crime at work – and it has been to facilitate better cooperation between the Labour Inspectorate, the Nav, the tax administration and the police. This has been done, among others. through the establishment of co-localised centres. The budgets that cooperate in these centres have developed a common strategy and are concerned with using the response means that have the greatest overall impact. So even though I agree with the Riksrevision that it is important to use strong instruments where required, it is primarily the overall picture that is important – not the level that owns the reaction agent. The fact that the Labour Inspectorate is following decisions that stop the work is something that has been high on the agenda of the management dialogue between the department and the department. The Labour Inspectorate has carried out a survey of more than 200 of its cases and as a result has changed somewhat on its internal guidelines. After a stoppage decision has been taken, the Labour Inspectorate shall now contact the establishments at least once a month to ensure that they comply. However, suspension decisions are a challenge. The Labour Inspectorate says that it is often the case that unprofessional businesses disappear completely or are laid down, so that they can establish themselves with other names. Another challenge is that several businesses are not located in fixed locations and are therefore difficult to reach. This is particularly true in the construction sector. This is one of several reasons why we are now looking at whether there should be a registration obligation for foreign service providers carrying out missions temporarily in Norway. This is an initiative of its own in the revised strategy against crime at work and can be an important contribution to facilitating the control and follow-up of establishments that may otherwise be difficult to reach. The labour inspectorate may also use such an infringement fee. This is still a relatively new instrument, and monitoring works on how best to use it. The Labour Inspectorate reports that they will review their internal guidelines during 2017 and that they are working on developing support tools to help inspectors assess when the infringement fee may be applicable. More internal training of inspectors is also being provided. The Labour Inspectorate is aware that cooperation with the police has improved and intensified in recent times, particularly through the work of the co-located centres. In the new cooperation, the police have taken over the use of notifications to a greater extent. This means that several cases are being investigated by the police without a notification from the Labour Inspectorate. Instead, the Labour Inspectorate assists the police in assessing criminality through recommendations as to whether the case should be prosecuted. Therefore, the number of notifications has to be seen in the context of the number of recommendations, and these have increased significantly since 2015. The budget prepared 156 recommendations in 2016, which is 55 more than one year earlier. I'll come back to the police's follow-up. According to the National Audit Office, the audits of the Labour Inspectorate are too often simple formal checks. Although I agree that it is important to go beyond checks on formal documents, I would like to stress that the control of HMS cards and employment agreements is also important for combating social dumping and labour crime. But, of course, that is not enough. Over time, the Labour Inspectorate has worked to improve the checklists they use when performing supervision. The goal is to control the most important things and be as effective as possible. At the same time, it must be easy to track what is controlled and what reactions have been given. This is important not least because much of the work is now being done in cooperation with other agencies. The Labour Inspectorate has many competent inspectors with extensive competence in overseeing social dumping. This does not mean that there is no continuous need to further develop this competence. This is important both because it is a large and complex subject area, and because the criminal actors are becoming increasingly creative. They are better placed to avoid being detected and to avoid controls and sanctions. Supervision spends a lot of resources building on the competence of inspectors. One important factor is that training is adapted as more knowledge of how criminals operate. An example is training on responsibility when inspectors encounter unbridled corporate structures. This is a particularly important measure in the fight against backers who want to circumvent the legislation. The various departments also work with a cross-national supervisor for so-called best practice in building and civil engineering inspections. The supervisor shall, inter alia: make a recommendation on how best to carry out such joint site checks. Operational cooperation between Labour Inspectorate, Police, Tax Administration and Nav has been strengthened in recent years. After the Riksrevision conducted its studies, there are two new co-located centres, one in Trondheim and one in Kristiansand, and that means there are today five such centres. Further two new ones will be set up this year, in Tønsberg and in Bodø. In addition, a recent monitoring of cooperation between agencies has been carried out. Researchers have looked at the period from 2014 to now, and the conclusion is positive and shows that the information flows better between the agencies and that the coordination of the use of sanctions and measures has improved. The budgets themselves, in a joint annual report, have pointed out that they could not have been achieved if they had worked separately. This concerns both the detection of criminal actors, the implementation of controls and actions, and in particular the follow-up to instruments and sanctions. Several instruments from the various agencies have helped to put more actors in a position to engage in criminal activity. In 2016, it was carried out over twice as many joint checks as in the previous year, and the agencies carried out five times more visits and surveys in 2016 than in the previous year. About 94 criminal actors are out of play as a result of these joint controls. Another important measure in the strategy is the establishment of a national cross-border analysis and intelligence centre to develop national threat and risk assessments. During the first half of 2017, the Centre will provide a new situation description of the crime of work in the country, and this will be an important basis for the further work of the agencies. I agree with the Riksrevision that information sharing is an important prerequisite for more effective cooperation between the agencies. For this reason, a national guide has now been developed on what kind of information agencies can share, and how they could possibly proceed in order to assess whether the information can be shared. In order to better facilitate the sharing of information between the agencies and the police, the rules of the Administrative Act on professional secrecy are now being assessed. I have also been asked to say something about areas affecting the Ministry of Justice and Defence. This is particularly true of police proceedings and investigations. The National Audit Office points out that the treatment period in the police on issues of occupational crime is too long, but there has been a positive development in recent years. The average time of handling resolved cases had a slight increase of 18 days from 2015, but it is positive that the police have managed to keep their proceedings relatively stable for a year when the police have been involved in a comprehensive reform work. It can also be mentioned that the average duration of treatment in 2016 was 149 days faster than in 2010. The Ministry of Justice and Defence considers that there is still room for a reduction in proceedings, in line with the recommendation of the National Audit Office. The percentage of data for occupational crime cases is high. For 2016, there was an explanation rate of 62, i.e. at the level of the National Audit Office. The majority of cases reported thus end up with a positive prosecution decision and are considered to be settled in criminal statistics. I will end by saying that the fight against crime at work will continue, and we will strengthen our efforts with the revised strategy. We have addressed what the Riksrevision has pointed out, and the strategy is an important contribution to this. The levels of cooperation have escalated, and labour crime is high on the agenda of all the departments concerned. Many new measures and initiatives have been taken, and together we expect results. We have a clear and common objective: to combat the crime of working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1200	It is profitable that the National Audit Office has gone into and viewed both public acquisitions and efforts to combat occupational crime and pointed out the seriousness of the development and the lack of action we see. It could sound like at the end of the day that this is something we agree on. Yes, it is part of the Right Strategy for the time being that in those cases where there is a great deal of disagreement, it should be presented as if there was agreement. But the attitudes that some people are going to get paid a little too little or perhaps can work in a slightly worse situation were expressed when the law of generalisation was discussed here in the Stortinget, when the Progress Party said that if someone came here and was willing to work for a lower salary, it was only positive, or right, who said that so-called social dumping would lead to, as it was said, more favourable wages, i.e. a pressure downwards on wages. This fight is incredibly demanding, for those who are involved in social dumping and labour crime are developing new methods and finding loopholes. Under our government, three different action plans were presented against labour and social dumping, and a great many of the proposals we then put forward voted against the Right and the Advance Party. Yes, the fight against social dumping was, to a large extent, a fight against the Right and the Progressive Party in order to obtain the political decisions that were necessary. But developments that we see now, and which are also pointed out by the National Audit Office, threaten the entire Norwegian model of society. At the 2013 national meeting of the Progress Party, it was all ten times said that one should get rid of the Norwegian model. No, the answer is the Norwegian model, and the parties play a central and constructive role in the development of new measures against labour crime. We have seen municipalities like Skien – and also Telemark County – and after each time many other municipalities that have used the municipal purchasing and tendering systems to strengthen the serious working life and have gone ahead. They have come up with a number of measures, and perhaps it has not been well known in the past that it is possible for the purchaser to decide which goods he wants to buy, and the quality of the goods he wants to buy. Many have been afraid that they only have to make the lowest bid. But now we see more and more examples of municipalities that are good at making demands without any agreement. We have also proposed a number of measures to combat social dumping and labour crime during this ageing period. Although we were discouraged when we suggested that there should be only two subcontractors in public tenders, we are pleased that the government has now come up with this. We are pleased that the government, having accepted the proposals we put forward in the Stortinget, has, however, gone in order to demand apprentices, but we believe it is completely unnecessary to set the limit of 1.1 million. kr for the size of the tender in order to enable it to be made. And, not least, we believe – and we know that the National Association of Construction and the Joint Alliance agree – that we should demand self-production from those who receive tenders in the public sector, i.e. that they have their own employees and not just based on recruitment agencies. We have seen nothing to strengthen the role of the parties. We have not seen anything about strengthening and simplifying the public relations system. We have not seen any further development of industry programmes. And not least, a unanimous increase has said that the so-called employment contracts ‘fixed employee without pay between jobs’ are not to be seen as permanent employment in the light of the Storting’s own perception of the work environment law – without the government following it. We experienced quite recently when we suggested here at the main hall that we should have a registration system for posted workers, which is a full opportunity to have, for example. Denmark has, and which makes it easier to follow the legislation, that it was also voted down here in Stortinget. And we experienced when we discussed again for a short time on the basis of a document 8 proposal from the Central Party that one by stricter regulation under the Working Environment Act § 14-12 second paragraph on rental activities should assume that there were tariff agreements on which it was based, that it was also downgraded. That's a pretty typical example, because that's how we see social development now. That's a very good example because what this thing really is about is, what is a trust voter? And what is a collective agreement? We experience today, because we have a work environment law that gives us a wide-ranging exemption when you have an agreement between the employer and the employee, a very good system if the intention of the system is followed up, that there are so-called collective agreements between one employer and one person. And then it is referred to through a legal loophole as «tariff agreement». It has never been the intention of the time that we here in the country adopted the main agreement in 1935. But it's a definition that's not so precise, because there's been a consensus about what a collective agreement is, and what a trustee is. Then there is a hole in the law used by sharp lawyers, and then we experience an undermining of the seriousness of work. It suggested Stortinget to do something about it. No, the government said. We still need new measures, and we need to work internationally to get international legislation in place, for example. the current discussion in Brussels on the Implementation Directive, the Posting Directive and equal pay for the same job at the same place. We experience a government that is opposed, and that the driving force in the fight against social dumping is the opposition in Stortinget. Something has also put the two supporting parts in place in Stortinget, but very much is down. And we experience social partners pushing to get action plans and actions in place. The government itself says that the crime of working life is more extensive, more serious and more complex. Then one would think that it was bet. In connection with the 2017 state budget, I sent a letter to the Council of State, and I asked the question: What new measures does the government propose against labour-related crime? We couldn't find it. And the answer from the government council was: no new investments in the state budget for 2017. On the contrary, we have seen in a number of areas that the government has weakened its efforts to combat social dumping and crime at work. The representative Kolberg was in solidarity as a possible tool where one can intervene when one actually sees social dumping, but that tool has removed the government. The general deterioration of the Working Environment Act does not contribute to a more serious working life. It contributes to the strengthening of unprofessional working life. Access to temporary employment is exactly the same. There we now see the results, just as the Storting warned against: there won't be any more jobs, but more of those in the job will be temporarily employed. That's exactly what's going on right now. I'm glad that there's so much focus on public acquisitions, because there's so much of that part of the economy that's about the construction sector, where social dumping has been and is a big problem. Therefore, it is important that we work with the National Association of Construction Industries, the Joint Alliance and other serious actors to ask for action. We therefore propose to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate. But the most important thing is the role of the parties, the role of the trustees, the role of the serious, organised employers' side, because they are the closest. When it comes to risk-based supervision, the system of good trust programmes and good employers is the very best starting point for demonstrating to the Labour Inspectorate where it should be examined. It may not be so strange that the Right has people in the middle who, with pleasure, found that the Working Environment Act was weakened, that now LO was to be cut. In this context, they forgot that Unio, YS, the Academics, NHO, Specter and KS — yes, the whole serious working life — are being clipped when reducing the role of that part of the working life in terms of the working environment. The most important measure in the fight against crime at work and social dumping is a well-organised working life. So I also think – no, I am sure – that it would help if we could get a government shift, where those in the government offices are burning for action against social dumping and even coming with social dumping initiatives and not having to be run from chance to chance, which is the government situation now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1234	I won't spend long now at the end of a long debate, but there are some things I want to comment on. First of all, the fact that we have a unanimity in one of these cases here, must be a good thing. It's not a veil of harmony, but there's a consensus in this house that work-life crime is serious, and that we have to do more. I think that's positive. That it's being presented as something negative, something unfortunate, yes, it's going to be on their behalf. I actually think it's very positive that we agree that it's serious, and that we have to do more. The other thing I want to record is the part of the very powerful rhetoric we've heard from representatives over the past few hours. Then there's a couple of things that should be mentioned as it's important to see in the context of the powerful rhetoric. First, the National Audit Office's investigation goes back to 2009, so when you come up with the strong results against the state of things, it's hard to hear it as anything but a strong criticism of the red-green government. It's okay for me, I'm just noticing it. So until what we're actually discussing here: the Riksrevision's findings and what to do to fix what's not good enough. I think the Council of State had a good review in her statement, she explained to many of the measures that have been implemented and are under planning. But I can go through a couple of points just to give some examples. The National Audit Office concludes that the Labour Inspectorate is using responses that seem deterrent. Yes, now you have a review of when you are going to use reports, when you are going to stop, you have taken a review, so that the use of tools is better. Then the Riksrevision writes that ‘supervision against social dumping is often carried out as simpler formal controls’. What have you done with that? Well, the number of joint controls has been strengthened, where both the police, the tax authorities, the Nav and the Labour Inspectorate go out together, concretely on the ground, and see what is going on. In 2016, there were 3,200 establishments controlled in this way – more than a double from the previous year and an increase from the previous year again. Then the National Audit Office also writes that there are ‘major competence challenges in the Labour Inspectorate in overseeing social dumping’. Yes, a separate education has now been established at Police College with 100 places of study in the year in which candidates are trained to combat financial crime, including crime at work. When I hear these comments, I hear a strong criticism of the state of things, back to 2009. I naturally do not hear so much praise from the things that the government has done to remedy this, but that is a lot – unlike these three different action plans, which obviously did not work, to which Mr Andersen referred. Listening to that rhetoric gives you a feeling that the situation for workers in Norway today is quite terrible. There has been a steady decline in labour-life-criminalism – at least if you believe in the Central Statistical Office – since 2003. There has also been an increase in real wages, so you have got more pay and less work-life crime. Finally, I should just like to say that I also hear strong attacks on the EEA Agreement and on the market economy in general. It shall be for those representatives to decide to make such attacks. Finally, I just want to repeat what I said at the beginning: it's positive that we're together. This whole house says that work-life crime is serious, that we're going to do something about it, and that we have to get better at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1255	I would say, by reference to Mr Skutle's statement, that of course it is good that there is a full consensus on these two issues that we have specifically for consideration. It's not wrong, it's fine. I listened intensely to the articles of the Council of State. There's really nothing in that post that there's reason to be against or criticise. What the representative Skuttle now calls high rhetoric and strong voice use is linked to the fact that the tools involved in these cases are not enough to deal with this situation – and this is where our ways are distinguished. That's the thing. Social understanding is a prerequisite for preventing crime and unworthy social conditions from taking over in Norway, as has been the case in a number of other countries. It's in the context we're talking about here, primarily about the view of the role of the trade union movement. In addition to the issues that are specifically addressed and on which there is a complete consensus – as it is called. What the representative Skutle, the Council of State and others do not come up with is a paradox – this debate cannot end until it is said here again – and that when one went to the step of weakening the Labour Environment Act in a number of areas and introducing easier temporaryity, what institution was it that the government didn't have to do that? Yes, the Labour Inspectorate said that. In a unanimous opinion of the Labour Inspectorate's management, they warned the government against it, precisely by reference to the fight against labour crime and social dumping. In their opinion on the matter, the Labour Inspectorate said that they would not do it on their own, they needed a law relating to the Working Environment Act that enabled the trade union movement to use legal force in the fight against it – because, as the representative Andersen said, they were closest. But then the Right People come out, they won't have any of that. That is why it is being eaten up in this debate. We see that this undermines the ability of the next generation of Norwegian workers to have a good working life, and that we can manage, including with that means, to combat labour-life crime. That's the thing. I notice, and I said I'm joining, as the Council of State has said. I say it, and I repeat it, because I heard intensely after. But she said nothing about this as we now say. She read up everything that's done, and that's good, but it's not going to meet it. The question that is then really pending is whether sharp lawyers find dirt holes in the law. Yes, the Control and Constitutional Committee notes in many areas of society how the law is used against policy, for example: in what Andersen said, namely that one person is agreed upon, and that is called a collective agreement. We didn't think that was conceivable, but the juice is then used against the culture of working life in such a way that it is actually undermined. It's a big fight. With reference to the representative Skutle and others who have to feel the call, I would say that if you talk about consensus, we should agree to support the legal authority of the trade union movement. We should agree on that. Then we would have done something, quite simply, because the success factor in this important field of Norwegian work has been so successful, is the NHO, the state and the trade union movement. That's what's breaking up. All three of them are subjected to the pressure of this development, and all of them are in the same boat – as I said before. I don't know if the council will, of course she chooses it herself, but it would have been good for the Storting to know what she thinks about what has now been said. It would also have been good to know whether she still believes that the temporaryity of work is a good thing in the fight against the crime of working life, and whether she believes that removing collective redress was a wise measure by the government in view of the issues dealt with here. It would have been nice to hear before we – maybe, I get to say – stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1267	I'm gonna be very short. We'd like to talk about the Nordic model, but that's not what the National Auditor's examined here. What they have found is that during the period 2009-2015, the Labour Inspectorate has had a lack of competence and tools to do something about this. The three action plans referred to by the representative Andersen have obviously not worked, and no action has been taken by political leadership and the government to do something about it – not until now. Governments have listed a long list of actions that are being implemented – I was also concerned about one of them. That's what's real. This is not a debate on the Nordic model. It is a debate on the findings made by the National Audit Office in 2009 and a debate on how we should remedy the issues raised by the Riksaudition, and there I hear nothing. I hear nothing from the representatives of the red-green parties. You can notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1272	The president's a little uncertain about the State Council Annick Hauglie asked for the floor? Then the next speaker is Anniken Hauglie.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1277	I was directly invited by the committee president to comment on some of the issues he raised. In my main post, I focused on what is the topic today, namely the concrete points and criticisms of the National Audit Office. With regard to the points raised by Mr Kolberg's representative, collective action, some of the reasons for removing the possibility was that there was a scheme that had barely been used. In addition, it also has a principle that you can go to court on behalf of someone who does not want it to be done. It was both about the fact that it was not used, and that it is a principle aspect of the whole arrangement. In the case of temporary employment, it has been important for the government to reduce the threshold into working life and make it easier for those outside to enter. That's also the background for simplifying, or making it easier to hire temporarily. What we're now seeing is that 30 pst. of temporary staff come from unemployment or from studies. 50 pst. of which they get a permanent job after one year, 60 pst. get a regular job after 21 months. Then we're busy following developments there, too, because we're, like the rest of the Storting, concerned that fixed employment should be the main rule. But for the time being, it looks like this has been a useful springboard into the workplace for those who are outside. So the Storting also tightened at the other end to avoid abuse. So I just want to say in the end: tripartite cooperation is very central. It is an important part of the Norwegian model and crucial in the fight against crime at work. For my part, I am engaged in good cooperation with the parties involved in this work and have also set up several working groups and have taken initiatives towards the parties in areas that are important in combating the crime of working life. The problems of renting are one of the issues I've now invited the parties to attend, to see if we can make some limitations there that make us avoid the unfortunate aspects of renting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1288	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1302	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1315	Over 20 million people are at risk of starvation in the heart of Yemen, South Sudan, Somalia and northeast of Nigeria. We are facing the most serious humanitarian crisis since World War II. After the Minister of Foreign Affairs gave his presentation to the Storting a week ago, this deeply alarming message came from the UN Emergency Response Coordinator Stephen O’Brien in the UN Security Council. He believes that the humanitarian response now needs 4.4 billion. dollars before July. Norway has a very special role in the international humanitarian system. Although we are definitely a great donor of humanitarian relief, we cannot measure ourselves in total amounts with the United States and the European Union. But our niche is about being able to act quickly and be flexible when needed, and when the need arises – and now it is needed. The government has helped to hold its own donor conference for the countries around Lake Chad and has announced new humanitarian aid appropriations in South Sudan. However, I would like to take this opportunity to invite the Minister of Foreign Affairs – from the United Kingdom Chair – to explain how Norway will respond to the dramatic appeal of the UN Head of Emergency. It is reassuring how this acute hunger crisis is not just a natural disaster. The crisis is also created by people, and I am thinking in particular of the situation in South Sudan, where Norway has played and still plays a very special role. But innocent children cannot be blamed for the abuse and mismanagement of political leaders. Millions of people are in acute danger of starvation. In that case, Norway shall set up. I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a wide-ranging presentation. The basic tone of the last year's presentation was mollasted. This year the foreign minister began by admitting that he would like to make this year's presentation in a brighter tone. It's rarely a very uplifting argument to point out that it was worse before, but still: 100 years ago World War I broke down in Europe. Hundreds of thousands of young men were wiped out in the trenches. The government here in the city, which was then still called Kristiania, strove to maintain Norway’s neutrality. It was precisely because of the serious difficulties that World War I brought with it, just 12 years after Norway's independence, that the Stortinget was drawn more strongly into foreign policy. In 1917, the Stortinget gained a more formal role in foreign policy through the establishment of a Special Committee on Foreign Policy, i.e. the forerunner of the current committee. And in both 1915, 1916 and 1917, Minister of Foreign Affairs Nils Claus Ihlen gave several communications and presentations to the Stortinget, either for closed doors or without subsequent discussion. The first open foreign policy presentation, in which it was put to debate in the Chamber afterwards, was held on 1 November 1917. Thus, foreign policy was no longer solely the responsibility of the King and government, but was known to the public through the Storting and openly debated. In addition to the recent marking of the 100th anniversary of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, it is also the 100th anniversary of the foreign policy presentation in 2017 as we know it today. As so often before, we will be able by Stortinget to join the vast majority of the foreign minister's descriptions and analyses. It becomes more interesting when the analysis is to be translated into practical policies and priorities. Speaking of priorities: I noticed that in this year’s presentation the word ‘priority’ occurred no less than 18 times. Then there is a danger that a ship going in all directions will end up standing still. The last foreign policy statement during this magnificence period is also an opportunity to establish status, summarise and evaluate. In some areas, we see a government that said one thing before the 2013 elections, and that does something quite different than what they promised. Four years ago, in the spring of 2013, for example, Right-wing representatives in this room to implement major cuts in development assistance for Ethiopia. Since then, Ethiopia has been selected to be one of Norway’s twelve so-called focus countries in development assistance, and the volume of Norwegian aid to Ethiopia has continued to grow over the ageing period. The Health Declaration of the autumn of 2013 contained meritive ambitions to promote democracy, human rights, rule of law and freedom of expression in development policy. The Foreign Minister's statement now announces less megaphone and more dialogue. There shall be more focus on results than on symbols. I'm not going to say that in these questions it's black and white. In balancing values and interests in development policy, we face both paradoxes and dilemmas. However, the Foreign Minister and the Stortinget could have better opportunity to actually explain and discuss these issues of whether the government had stuck to a concrete promise in its own declaration: the promise to make an annual policy statement here in the United Kingdom. The United States is Norway's most important allies. The transatlantic ties are long, wide and deep – deep enough to withstand disagreements among friends, apartheid in South Africa or the wars in Vietnam and Iraq. I noticed that the Foreign Minister referred to the invasion of Iraq as a failure and with great negative ringing effects. That judgment is not difficult to join. The political picture here at home was so different 14 years ago, in winter 2002–03, during the admission to the Iraq war. Former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik writes in his memoirs about how he had to ask cabinet questions internally in his own government – internally in his own government, i.e. – in order to avoid the Right getting a pass for Norway to participate in the invasion of Iraq without the support of the UN Security Council. The second party in today's government has also no proud history in this matter. The current party leader made it clear that he felt it was unwise for Norway not to support the Iraq war. We need political leadership to be able to say no when it is right and necessary – also to our most important allies. Another issue where it is necessary to respond to the policy of our closest ally is the Trump administration's decision to refuse support for development-oriented health organisations that inform about abortion as part of the health service. The action of the Trump administration is far more dramatic than similar actions during George W. Bush’s presidential term. At that time, the aid was limited to family planning funds. Organisations are now being blocked from all American health assistance — a safe deposit that is 15 times larger than under the Bush administration. Here I believe that the government has reacted too late and too weakly – too late because four countries that are traditionally like-minded with us, the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark and Sweden, together took the initiative of a donor conference under the motto ‘She Decides’, ‘she decides’. Here, Norway could and should be a co-organizer. The organiser countries themselves listed other countries that had joined the initiative quickly. It was Canada, Cape Verde, Estonia, Finland and Luxembourg. Thus, Norway was not in the first place, among the organisers, or in the second row, among those who first signed up for support. The government has granted 85 million. to organisations affected by the Trump administration's restrictions, but this reaction becomes too weak and too small when we consider that during the period the government has cut the allocation of the UN Population Fund by 70 million. kr. In a neighbouring country or area, a good relationship and open communication with all its neighbours should be maintained. But the most important neighbouring relationships are between the direct neighbours, the ones you share a fence with. Russia is not just a country in our neighborhood. Russia is our neighbour. We share 195 km of land, and not least we share an unconditionally negotiated frontier at sea. Norway has an interest in maintaining contact with Russia, even in difficult times. Our neighbourhood with Russia must be based on cooperation, dialogue, firmness and predictability. We must join our allies and our European partners in meeting violations of international law. At the same time, we need to focus on cooperation in the north, which has contributed to low voltage in the north. I would like to welcome the Minister of Foreign Affairs to announce that at the end of the month he will travel to Arkhangelsk and meet, among others. the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs. For my part, I would also urge the Minister for Foreign Affairs not to do what his colleague, the Minister for Fisheries, did when he visited Russia after the Crimean annexation and stated that he would put a lid on the major, overall conflicts. We need an honest dialogue with Russia. It has also been a wish by Stortinget, but members of our delegation were known to have refused a visa by the Russian authorities. At the same time, I have noticed that the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Danish Parliament last week visited Russia, and no parliamentarians who experienced visa denial. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the cooperation that is now coming to an end, and to acknowledge the diplomatic work undertaken to normalise Norway's relations with China. Normalisation is a result of long-term and patient diplomacy. I think it has been necessary to take that time to help us find a normalization of the relationship between our two countries. The government has also continued a very important work on the peace agreement in Colombia, but now the most difficult part of the work remains – the implementation of the agreement itself. The work on girls' rights to education also deserves tribute from Stortinget. We experience that the problems in the world are getting ever closer to us. Therefore, we should discuss the dilemmas of Norwegian foreign policy more closely. The foreign policy statement is a suitable place for such a discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1367	I would also like to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for a thorough and broad presentation. The main lines of Norwegian foreign policy are established. But it is our common challenge that the world does not stand firm. Dramatic events in our eastern and southern neighbourhoods reinforce a trend in which foreign policy is becoming more and more domestic policy. The government has announced that it will present a major communication on Norway’s road choices in foreign and security policy in the spring. That's good, because the environment changes at a faster pace than before, and that can lead to that we have to correct the course when we see unforeseen events and situations. Central, however, is our long-term strategy. The crises we are now seeing may be gone and replaced by other crises that may appear tomorrow or in 5, 10 or 20 years. That is why we need to think in the long term about security policy and stand firm about our values and our interests. No one is more dependent on international institutions and clear international rules than we do. The Prime Minister said it so correctly in his New Year speech: ‘The history of Norway shows that both our prosperity and our security are the best way to create together with others.’ Defending national interests does not necessarily have to be a matter of isolation. Therefore, it is worrying to follow developments that threaten to crack the liberal world order, which have been built up over the last 70 years. To a great extent, we have taken the victory of democracy for granted. Increased populism, protectionism and nationalism threaten everything we have achieved – yes, the entire international cooperation built to ensure peace, democracy and human rights. That is why I would like to stress the importance of standing up and defending our values in order to ensure continued stability, security, peace, freedom, democracy and prosperity – yes, in order to ensure continued progress. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is so clear that we must continue to work to build a well-functioning world order – in order to continue to prevail. We are facing a self-reliance Russia that is trying to influence values in other countries. The detention of Crimea constitutes a violation of trust and international law. It is important that Norway deals with Russia in a predictable and firm manner and that Europe stands united on the sanctions it has adopted. Bilaterally, Norway continues to want good cooperation with Russia, in particular on fisheries management, environmental protection, nuclear safety, coastguard, border guard, search and rescue. NATO and transatlantic cooperation are important as never before. The government has invested heavily in Defence and is pursuing a steady and clear security policy in cooperation with our key allies in Europe and NATO. The new administration in the United States has underlined NATO solidarity, and it's joyous. The United States is our most important ally, and Norway is dependent on a good relationship with the United States, regardless of who is president, and regardless of which party governs. Here in Europe, the threat of terrorism has become part of our security challenge. This, together with the migration challenges, shows how closely our security is tied up with the conflict areas south and east of the Mediterranean. Europe is now working to take greater responsibility for its own security. The priority of Europe and its neighbourhoods is central to Norway — both foreign policy and security policy. The conflict in Syria is cruel. Norway insists that we need a political solution that the parties can agree on. ISIL is a threat far beyond the region. Norway is the fifth largest humanitarian donor country in Syria and neighbouring countries, and we are contributing militarily to the fight against ISIL, supporting political processes and engaging in stabilisation. The fight against ISIL is a slow but secure one. The group continues to lose land and their financial capacity is weakened. More than a million displaced Iraqis have been able to return home in 2016, including: Thanks to Norwegian support for stabilisation. Norway is working to achieve the goal of a nuclear-free world in line with the Non-Proliferation Agreement, NPT. The 2016 unanimous decision of the Storting is the basis of Norwegian nuclear disarmament policy. In our preparatory meetings for the Non-Proliferation Surveillance Conference of the Non-Proliferation Agreement in 2020 will begin. Norway will actively contribute to real progress towards a successful Conference of Supervisors. It's important. It is deeply worrying that North Korea continues to develop its nuclear arsenal. We fully support the UN Security Council Resolutions on sanctions against North Korea. The Minister of Foreign Affairs presented a world full of contrasts in his presentation to us in Stortinget. Important progress was given considerable space. Never before have so many people on the globe been able to enjoy so much wealth, well-being and education. We continue to see progress towards peace in Colombia and Sri Lanka. The normalisation of relations with China now opens up great opportunities for cooperation with the world's second largest economy and with a country that is a permanent member of the UN Security Council. China was also a major player in Paris 2015 and the Paris Agreement is the first legally binding climate agreement with real global participation from all countries. It provides a good basis for combating the threat posed by global climate change. The goal of Norwegian development policy is to eradicate extreme poverty, with sustainability objectives as a guide. One per cent of GNI is also receiving assistance in 2017, as in the whole of this grossing-up period. Norway is at the top of the world as an aid provider, both as a percentage of GNI and per capita. Our assistance should be designed to enable the recipients to generate sustainable growth themselves. Our funds should also be able to trigger contributions from other, including private, actors. However, the most important thing is what results we get from the aid billions. Therefore, the government has started concentration work along three axes: thematic, geographical and contract reduction. The main priorities are education, health, job creation and industrial development, climate, environment and clean energy, and humanitarian aid. It is now more evident than ever that the world has been facing its greatest humanitarian crisis since 1945. 20 million people are at risk of starvation due to long-term drought. Norway is helping to save lives around the world, including the four crises in Yemen, South Sudan, Somalia and the north-east of Nigeria, which the UN Head of Relief is bringing forward. The many major and long-standing humanitarian crises are creating enormous humanitarian needs. Nor has the Norwegian humanitarian budget been higher, and for the first time has it been budgeted for more than 5 billion. in humanitarian response to crises and conflicts. This is an increase of over 50 pst. since this government acceded. In February, Norway hosted a donor conference for Nigeria and the countries around Lake Chad. Here the Minister for Foreign Affairs announced 1.6 billion. DKK in assistance for 2017-2019 for at least 11 million people in need of humanitarian assistance due to the crisis in this region. Norway was also among the first countries to respond to the UN appeals for Somalia and South Sudan. The Minister for Foreign Affairs recently announced 135 million. kr in humanitarian aid for South Sudan – new, i.e. – and 64 million. kr to Somalia. We also contribute humanitarian aid in Yemen and will participate in a donor conference for Yemen on 25 April. In addition, Norway is a major contributor to the UN Emergency Aid Fund, CERF, which gives the UN the opportunity to respond quickly to humanitarian crises and contributes to these four crises I mentioned. In order to prevent lost generations and to ensure development and job creation, education, especially for girls and women, is the key to a lasting path out of poverty. Still 58 million children do not have access to school. This is why the main focus of education for girls and children in crisis and conflict is so important. It is also important that we focus on health, not least women's health and reproductive health. Humanitarian aid and efforts in vulnerable countries are necessary contributions to alleviate distress, help refugees in the neighbourhood and prevent new crises. This government has also reacted quickly and positively to the initiative of the Netherlands to re-fill some of the reserves that were drained for women's reproductive health after the new administration in the United States came into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1411	First of all, I will also pay tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a very broad, good and thorough presentation as he was in the Stortingen a week ago and made his preliminary statement on foreign policy. I expect that there will be more of that variety also in the new bigotry, from the same foreign minister. At least we get hope for it. I'm going to come up with some of the things that the Foreign Minister had in mind in his presentation, but also some points that might not have been as prominent in the presentation. That's what it has to be, because foreign policy is very wide-ranging. I'll start with our most important allies. The most important military ally, the United States, is in a time of great change in the political picture. There are a lot of people who are going to be replaced in a new administration. There's a lot of new things to put in place. We're seeing new ways of communicating with both the voters and the outside world, and we've learned that 140 characters through Twitter messages can make the world look pretty fast when things burn bad. What has been strange has been following a bit of the political debate, especially in Europe, where many politicians have almost jumped their legs to try to distance themselves from what is happening in some cases, about the election that has been in the United States. No matter who is elected, no matter what you stand for, and no matter what the result, we have to deal with the elected president of the United States. I think we have to try to take the time to get things settled. I think we have to be open about the messages that will come, and we have to take seriously the signals that are being given. When the U.S. President – as well as a number of former presidents – has signaled that NATO countries must rise to the percentage they themselves have set through the Wales Agreement, on 2 p.m., then we must listen to it, listen to all NATO countries be involved and contribute their share to the financing of our desperate most important alliance in terms of our security. What I want to point to as disturbing, of course, is what has to do with the mention of the free trade agreement, what can almost look like a style that goes more in the protectionist direction. It worries me. But we must ensure that we have both stopped, changed and negotiated through international agreements – both with the United States and with other countries – in order to ensure that we have further developments in free trade. Aid itself does not bring land out of permanent poverty; it is the trade that does. It's trade that helps to drag people out of poverty on a permanent basis. It is therefore important to have access to the world market, including for those countries that are struggling. Therefore, it is important that we ensure that we have a contractual agency on hand – and in order – that provides standardised solutions, ensuring that you are sure that when you sell goods, you also get a settlement for their goods. It is therefore important that we have quality-related controls, etc., which enable countries to open their borders to increased trade. Therefore, trade agreements are important. The Progress Party believes that what happened through Brexit will also be able to open up opportunities for Norway — when the Brexit negotiations are over, within about half a century. two years – to be able to conclude a new trade agreement with the United Kingdom, on good terms, which will safeguard Norwegian interests in a good way. We have to use the possibilities that promise in such a setting. But it's also clear that brexit puts us on a big test and is going to give us great challenges. What is to happen to the fisheries agreement? Fisheries management in the North Sea, among other things, will now be under heavy pressure in connection with Brexit. At the same time, Norway has always traded with the United Kingdom. We have very good relations with that country, and maybe through Brexit we can just make sure that we get a good and secure agreement for Norwegian companies, based on the culture we've had over all these years. We see major challenges in Europe at the moment, and I want to address in particular a problem that really worries me: we have a changing Turkey, we have a Turkey that goes away from the democratic – which we could know at an earlier time – and more and more towards less freedom of expression, less freedom for the media. We've seen arrests linked to the academy and opposition, which I don't like. Here it is important to put words on the evolution that is taking place. So this is happening in an important NATO country, where we're totally dependent on the relationship that's within NATO. And that happens in a country where we see the flows of refugees, the migration, and one has managed to establish an agreement with Turkey to prevent – at least in part – the further journey into Europe and the seaway across to Greece. It is important that we focus on this issue. It is important that we give clear signals and are clear in our speech that we are a country fenced on freedom of expression and that we fence on human rights. Therefore, it is important that we are also clear in our speech in this regard. Norway's second most important trading partner is the EU. In recent years, at least in the opinion of the Progress Party, the EU has gone in the wrong direction. More and more attention has been paid to supranationalism, and the national state has increasingly lost its influence and power within the EU. This is disturbing. At the same time, almost 70-80 pst. of our goods and services we sell to the EU. Then it is important that we have a good framework, and that is what we are going through the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement is important for Norway, but it is also clear that some parts of this agreement are important to have something done in the long term. But what's interesting is that those who are most opposed to the EU and the EEA Agreement, the Centre Party, are also the parties in this Chamber who have participated in the adoption of most EU directives since 1994, through their governance period. So they also have a responsibility in this regard. The theme on which the Minister of Foreign Affairs was little involved in his presentation is the shift in power that we see today. We see a shift of power going more and more east. We have a strong India and China, we have an Indonesia – which we hear very little about in the public debate – which is also very big, and which has a high economic growth. It is important that we focus on these things also in our trade policy, and I want to give a very large tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who through dialogue and work has managed to get in place – at least quite quickly, hopefully – a normalized relationship with China. I also hope that in the long term we will take care of the Norwegian interests associated with Russia. We must ensure a good dialogue – and we do. We have many common interests with Russia, but at the same time, of course, we have to be burdened with our allies, also linked to saying that we do not accept the annexation of Crimea. Norwegian foreign policy should always, and I repeat, always reflect what is Norwegian interest. The government does. The government must continue to do that, and then that's what's in focus when we develop our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1443	Let me first thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a comprehensive distribution, where he commented on a long range of foreign policy issues, repeated the main points of government policy, gave previews of two messages that the Stortinge will receive before Easter in spring, and also summed up what has been achieved in the foreign policy field over the four-year period. I think it is useful to remember that we have achieved important progress in several areas in cooperation, without noticing what is the more intense themes. I'm also glad that the committee leader started his speech by pointing to the famine we're currently experiencing, because we're getting a tragic reminder these days that it's not just in and around Syria and Iraq that we need a formidable emergency response. Over the course of several years, as spokesman for aid to Africa, I have raised the humanitarian crises that have come under the shadow of the Syrian conflict, not least in sub-Saharan Africa. Over many years, we have been stressing the need to strengthen our efforts for a more climate-resilient agriculture and to increase food security in this part of Africa. One of the co-ordinators' committees has been converging for years to ask exactly that. Efforts to prevent crises are always better than coming in afterwards to reduce the damage. But this has for a number of years come in the shadow of the Syrian conflict. Today the media report that we are facing the worst famine since the Second World War. ‘For one year the United Nations has warned without being heard’, says the title of the Evening Post. Over 20 million people are at risk of starvation in the whole, and a particularly hard frame is many countries in the Sahelbelt in sub-Saharan Africa. On Friday, the UN Security Council emergency chief, Stephen O’Brien, asked the countries of the UN Security Council to make financial arrangements to prevent a disaster in Yemen, South Sudan, Somalia and the northeast of Nigeria. The level of malnutrition is now critically high in several areas, and they are in the process of meeting the UN definition of famine disaster, a famine that can be the worst in our human age. In this situation, it is natural for me to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to answer what we can do, because it would not be natural for us to also come up with an extraordinary increase in the 2017 aid framework, so that we can increase the emergency aid effort without cutting the necessary long-term effort to prevent future famines in sub-Saharan Africa. I also want to focus on the terrorist groups that we are now seeing. We are fortunate to be able to defeat some of ISIL's advance, and we now see the opposite, that ISIL is experiencing a military decline. They've worked out what I'd call a terrorist state. Fortunately, they are losing areas by region in Iraq and Syria. But although the military progress in the fight against ISIL seems to be quite successful, we should not believe that these forces will disappear. ISIL and related extremists will still pose a major challenge to security internationally. Worst is the situation in those countries where they stand strongly and challenge authority control over the territory of the country. For those who live there, the ISIL government means a horror. Those who get the most affected by this are Muslims, but those who may get even harder are minorities like Christians and Jesuits. We will also have an interpellant debate later today that discusses just how minorities and Christians are actually experiencing this now. We see Islamist terrorists asking the question, Are you a Christian? If the answer is yes, then man is shot and killed for his faith. I would also like to briefly mention what the representative Nesvik refers to, that is, the situation we are now seeing in Turkey. We also see how the debate on domestic policy and how democracy and human rights are challenged in Turkey, and it is very alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1460	I would like to thank the Council of State for a broad outline of foreign policy. The councils assumed that he would wish he could hold the speech in a lighter tone. I agree with the Council of State that there is every reason to worry about several aspects of developments that we look at the international arena. War, terror and states on the brink of collapse are all looking at with great unrest. Notices of such and increasing problems in the supply of food are another page that requires action. In those times, good alliances are important. For Norway, cooperation in the UN and NATO is of the utmost importance, as it has been for a long time. It is positive that Nordic cooperation works well. Norway shall also be a constructive partner with the EU. In its decision, the Council of State said: ‘We have to expect that we will also see new proposals for further deepening EU cooperation on security and defence policy. Here it is essential that Norway is close to each other.’ And on the other hand, ‘Prioritising Europe and its neighbourhoods is a key conclusion of the Road Selection Communication, which is presented in a few weeks — foreign policy and, to a large extent, security policy as well.’ The centre party has concluded that, in today's situation, it is decisive to have increased focus on our own country and neighbourhood. However, I hope that during the debate the Council of State can state that the above quotations do not lead to any change in line with Norway's independent foreign, security and defence policy outside the EU. Governments also promoted brexit, an area where the government and the Central Party have a different vision. When the United Kingdom decided to leave the EU, the Norwegian government was busy explaining that, of course, only the resistance to immigration was behind. That's wrong. I think Norway must have the most loyal EU government in Europe. First, warn a British against going out of the EU. So an EFTA refused to send letters to invite to cooperate after Brexit. Then one threatened to block any UK EFTA membership, and then, following strong pressure from Norwegian industry, the Norwegian hold was changed to Norway, of course, being positive in cooperation with the UK, but the United Kingdom itself had to find out what they wanted. But when what the British wanted was to set up a formal working group with Norway to prepare a new free trade agreement after Brexit, it was again on the contrary no from the government, although according to today's business life there were different views and different advice from the government. So the government must be the closest one going to make Norway an audio empire in the EU. But what will the government do to the United Kingdom? What does the government want to do to meet the business community, to be a caretaker? Would you like to continue with the inactivity and point to various arrangements, or would you like to do something active? I want to challenge the Council of State to expand its government's plans a little bit more in this area. But I give the Council of State quite right, when in his speech he said the following: ‘Brexit and political developments in the United States illustrate how political power centres lose contact with large electoral groups.’ The population polls are ready: more than 17 million Britons voted for the United Kingdom to leave the EU. According to Lord Ashcroft Poll's voice 49 pst. by the Leave voters, on the basis of the principle that decisions about the United Kingdom should be taken in the United Kingdom as the main motivation. The demand for greater democratic influence in the country in which they live is just as legitimate in the United Kingdom as in Norway. The centre party was strongly skeptical of Norwegian war participation in Iraq, and we were at least as sceptical of sending Norwegian forces to contribute to the conflict in Syria. Governments were very clear about the consequences of the invasion of Iraq. Only the future can show the consequences of what is now happening in Syria. There are two questions I and the Central Party have asked the government because one made it clear that Norwegian forces were to train soldiers for the Syrian camps: who is the solar data Norway is training? What background do they have, who sympathizes with them, and what is their motivation to wage warfare in Syria? The next question, which is also of particular importance, is which government sees as legitimate governing power in Syria. Despite the fact that we have asked several times, we have not received a good and clarifying answer. The Prime Minister has said that the government should do a lot to ensure that a known who Norway actually provides military training. Among other things, lie detector tests were referred to as a method. I was not sure when I got the answer, and I have to admit that I am not safe now either. The Godal Committee provided an in-depth analysis of the Norwegian contribution in Afghanistan. A clear conclusion for the Godal Selection was that one must have a clear plan for political solution and an exit strategy before entering a future war. It's hard to see that one has a clear plan for a politically resilient solution in Syria, if one doesn't have it clear who one mine is legitimate government and government in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1493	I would also like to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for a good and broad – albeit mole - presentation to the Stortinget. He promised many important themes. The magnitude of the changes is evident when the great seriousness of the humanitarian disaster in Africa has told us about us in the last days of this presentation. I also believe that the Foreign Minister had a timely start in talking about what challenges our democracies are now facing. I think it is a little ghastly when the Foreign Minister spoke in his statement about the importance of the free press, that we are experiencing an empty press release both during the presentation of the Foreign Minister and during the debate. Because there are a lot of Western values under pressure. We see the emergence of both populism, nationalism and isolationism in Europe. I would warn from this pulpit against defining all the populism we see growing forward in Europe, like right-wing populism, sail if many of them have anti-immigration tendencies. Many of them are much more complex politically, and defining everything as pure right-wing populism means I can be a wrong label that makes us not recognize the more extreme populistic thoughts when we meet them. Now it really should be the time when we're trying to revitalize everything we have of international cooperation. Now is really the time to strengthen the ties we have between countries. Now it's important to consolidate our democracies and raise our values. Now is a time when it is important to fight for trade agreements between countries, for NATO, for the UN, for the WTO. Now it is important to make sure that we also become a driving force in international cooperation. The fact that the United States, with its new President, has abdicated both as a driver of climate policy and as a driver of fairer trade between countries, leads us to see other countries take that lead. I would like to see it a democracy that had the leading role, and not, as we now see, that China is a driving force both for climate and for trade in the world. Today, the UN Summit on Women opens. Sickness about the Minister of Foreign Affairs has a good rating of what has been done especially with girls and education, and that one has been very good at saying that one will go in and close the holes you see when the Trump administration draws out its money for women's health, it is clear that women's rights internationally and in international work are under pressure today. There is little left of the enthusiasm that was in Beijing and at all the big meetings where women's rights were really raised. Now we see that the UN Summit is more about a struggle to keep what we have in an alliance with Eastern European countries, Muslim countries and strictly Catholic countries. Economics is one of the themes of that meeting, and we know that today we have over 150 countries in the world that prevent women from taking an active part in professional life. Our dear neighbour in the East, Russia, even has 50 professions that are legitimized that women do not have the right to exercise. We see that gender-based violence is growing and must be combated strongly worldwide. I would have liked Norway to be part of the She Decides initiative, where we see that the liberally leading countries, such as Canada, the Netherlands and Denmark, are in the front line just to create a countercoalization against the coalition between Eastern European countries, strictly Catholic countries and strictly Muslim countries that clearly help to weaken women's rights. I think there's going to be a big fight in the future, not just to hold on to the democratic values on which our society is founded, but also to uphold women's rights internationally. I think it is definitely Norway's role to fight for women's rights in all areas, and I hope that we also use the chance that the UN Summit is to raise those very values.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1514	The representative Graham expressed himself in a way that is similar to what I have done a lot of times here from the pulpit. She said: Foreign policy is firm, but unfortunately the world is not as firm. That's an appropriate description of the time we're in. The representative of Graham also calls the Minister of Foreign Affairs ‘instant and broad’, and I will join him in that. I thought it was a good review of a number of the challenges we are facing today, and that also took on some perspectives that I might not have seen so clearly in Norwegian foreign policy until recently, for example. the challenges now facing liberal democracy in Europe. It was a good look at a world that is changing, but perhaps the biggest challenge with both the distribution and with Norwegian foreign policy debate is that we do not sufficiently address what new demands for leadership – and demands for a different direction – this can confront us, and confront us now. Let me go through some of these: the challenges we face against liberal democracy will require a completely different coordinated defence of it, in alliances with similar forces in other countries in Europe and elsewhere. The challenges come from Turkey, they come from Russia, and they come from other, smaller countries in Eastern Europe. They also come from significant forces in Western Europe, and they come from significant forces in the United States, including the US administration. And it significantly changes the map around us and demands that values we probably didn't think we had to use great force to defend, actually actively have to be defended by us in Norway, along with allies around us, to a greater extent. A very important step forward in the last few years, perhaps one of the most important things in this process, has been the climate agreement in Paris. It was a very happy progress in a time or so marked by many heavy news. But there's no doubt that last year's American elections were a big blow to the same agreement, because the United States was so important to get him out and will be important for his meaning, since it's not a binding agreement, but an agreement that depends on the will of the most important countries in the world. Again, it means that we will need to be hired to an even greater extent than we have planned until now, and perhaps we will challenge ourselves if there are new projects – as the climate and forest effort have been for more governments now – that can be brought on the track, which will allow us to get even more of a new one in the climate work for years to come. The permanent refugee crisis in which we stand, even if we do not experience it that way – but as countries in southern Europe experience, from which countries the refugees come, experiences, as we see through the high number of refugees – calls for co-ordinated responses, not least that one in Europe better manages to take a joint responsibility for receiving more refugees and distribute this better between us. Here's another area where Norway could play an additional lead role, compared to what we're doing today. We can do the same thing in the disarmament work. It is disappointing that Norway does not take part in the most promising initiative in this field since it is cold war. Negotiations to ban nuclear weapons started at the end of March, without Norway as a participant. The Netherlands has participation in the opening meetings, Sweden has participation, but not Norway. I hope that we will be able to see a change in that afterwards. It is also a major challenge for us – who, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs says in the distribution, the important role of the leader of the donor country group for Palestine – to go around with ourselves and others on whether, when we use so much economic resources and have such an important position, we do enough to contribute to the progress of negotiations, which have gone mad rather than in the right direction in recent years. Of course, it's not Norway's fault, but we have a special responsibility to think through: Is it perhaps time to look carefully through the tools and direction of politics together with others to see if we can do even more? Finally, let me finish by saying that in a world with which – as the Foreign Minister leads – there can be darkness, so remember that there is also great and important progress in the fight against poverty, that more people are being trained, and that many more are growing up with better health. The world also makes major changes in important fields, although it may not always look like this in our neighbourhood in these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1535	Like my predecessors here, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and adequate presentation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs rightly points to the fact that an international unrest has become firm – a very worrying picture of the future. The Green Party strongly subscribes to the values, objectives and instruments used by the government as a whole to meet these challenges. At the same time, however, we lack a deeper and longer-term analysis of the causes of what is happening, and not least of Norway’s long-term role in what is happening. There are many and complex reasons for the terrible bloodbath in Syria and the Middle East, for the terrible famine that is under way in Africa, for democracies to weaken in Poland, Hungary and Turkey, and for isolationism to erupt in the United Kingdom and the United States. There is one underlying feature that is clear from this picture, and it's that people conflict about resources. People move on, and people who are marginalised in their own country feel threatened by immigration and asylum seekers. Very much argues that these are factors that are going to increase in the years to come, and of course there will be many reasons for this in the years to come. But we know with considerable certainty that the hunger disaster that is now developing around Lake Chad, in South Sudan and in Nigeria, which can be the greatest in our time, can have global warming as its main cause. And if that's right, we have worse things ahead of us because global warming is going to increase significantly before we can turn it around -- if we do the right things. I very much appreciate that the government takes responsibility for contributing directly to alleviating the unfathomable suffering that we see both in the Middle East, in Africa and elsewhere. I also agree with Mr Hareide's call to further strengthen this effort. The global warming that now threatens perhaps 20 million people in southern Africa, and we are now given an example that could threaten even more people even more in the near future, has one and only one reason: coal, oil and gas. Today the government announced the opening of 93 fields in the 24th concession round, and if I got the number correctly, about 56 new fields in the next TFO round. The Green Party has voted against the 23rd and 24th round of concessions, and we are opposed to these TFO distributions. Why do we do that? Well, let's do it, for example. because these decisions are decisions on increasing global warming, and there are decisions that will help more people around the world to be affected by what people in Africa are now facing, and there are decisions that will help them to continue the migrations, the conflicts, the threats that other people will feel. So it's a physical fact that it doesn't create global climate change and what we pick up is global climate change. Therefore, the Norwegian foreign policy debate should also be about the 14 000 million tonnes of CO 2 that Norwegian oil has so far added to the global atmosphere, which is still there, the 900 million tonnes of CO 2 that the Sverdrup field will supply, and the hundreds of millions of tonnes of additional CO 2 that the 23rd and 24th concession round will add because it will have a dramatic impact on Norwegian foreign policy in the decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1560	First, I would like to thank you for a good debate so far, and also for what I stressed in my statement, that in a turbulent period of foreign and security policy, we agree on the main lines of Norwegian policy in important areas. The reason why I mention this is that for Norway it is essential. It also makes us stronger. What is new since 2013 is that the liberal democracies and many of the values that have been held by several representatives have not only been questioned now, but we feel that what we have believed should continue to develop, both in terms of women's rights, climate, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of the press, has ceased to evolve in the right direction. As also the representative Skei Grande was in, we often end up in a situation where we have to defend it and prevent backwards. We have now recently seen this linked to, among other things. reproductive health. And then we also experience that in all these content platforms that are new, these social media, there's a lot of information being put out. There is no editor for this, and much of this information is not correct at all. How do we as democracies relate to a situation where people use freedom of expression to express themselves through these social media, when it is part of this information that is not correct? Then it is also used by actors who have an interest in drawing a wrong picture of many situations. And then it can get a sense of something that actually doesn't lead to correctness. We don't have tools that are effective today to fight back, and there are many of the tools we don't want either. So these are real dilemmas. To the discussion: I agree with the strong concern raised by several representatives regarding the humanitarian disaster that we see in sub-Saharan Africa in some countries. In addition, we experience this in Yemen, Syria and Iraq. That is why, over the last three years, we have also increased the humanitarian budget by 50 pst. In a very early time, I initiated a donor country conference for South Sudan, which was organized in Oslo. Our Prime Minister took the initiative of the great Syria conference in London, where never so much money has been given in one day in the United Nations context. And now in the new year, in cooperation with the UN humanitarian aid coordinator Stephen O’Brien, I invited to a donor country conference for the northeastern parts of Nigeria and the countries around Lake Chad. Norway promised $1.6 billion. Norwegian krone this year and two years in the future. This contributed to at least a few months now having more to do with what is also developing into a forgotten conflict. Norway was one of the first to respond to the new South Sudan appeal, with 135 million. NOK, and we were one of the first to respond to the appeal that came when it was Somalia, with $64 million. kr. I myself want to attend the donor country conference that is now being initiated for Yemen in Geneva. So, as I also said in the statement, our foreign and security policy begins in Europe. I am of the opinion that in order to deal with many of these challenges, we need an EU that is also able to deal with the complexity of Turkey, migration and a more unpredictable Russia. For many years now, we have had a debate about Norway being a member of the EU or not. But I think it's new if it's such that you think the European Union should also be weakened. One thing is to say that Norway should not register, but if you think that different countries should leave the EU, I have to say that you challenge some of the hub we built to prevent history from repeating itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1575	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1580	I am pleased with the Foreign Minister's signals regarding the famine he himself described as forgotten, and I appreciate the fact that the Foreign Minister himself will now go to Geneva on the question of aid to Yemen. Now, the situation in Yemen is that there are additional complications that make the way to get that help sufficiently forward, you can ask a lot of difficult questions about. To the question, and as for Turkey, there are many people here in this room who have expressed great concern, and it might well be growing day by day. I want to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs – and this is a NATO ally: is there anything in the development of Turkey that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will characterize as points of light, or is there nothing to see in that way at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1587	Thank you for your positive feedback on the humanitarian priorities ahead. We have to follow developments very closely now. As I said, we initiated the North-East Nigeria Conference and the area around Lake Chad, and we also need to follow up on the other disasters in the future. As far as Turkey is concerned, there is a great deal of concern about the human rights situation — freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and, above all, freedom of the press. In addition, the Venice Commission has now made an assessment of the proposed amendments to the Constitution and to which they are critical: firstly, that it is taking place under state of emergency, but also the powers and competences given to the President, to which they consider that they cannot be recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1594	Not only is the situation in Turkey highly critical, but the debate on whether Turkish politicians can run electoral campaigns in Europe has led to an escalation of the discussion. What is the position of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in this matter – does he believe that the Netherlands has taken the right position? And how can we defend freedom of expression against an ally we see going in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1599	Thank you for a good question. What the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has said is that it takes a lot to refuse anyone to come here and talk. What is the situation if Turkish politicians come to Norway, at government level, is that of course they have to make it known, that is the usual practice. If they want to talk, they get to explain it, provided that there are no assessments from local authorities and police that make it unrecommendable for safety reasons. But if they come to Norway and argue for constitutional changes that the Venezia Commission believes are not in line with what is the spirit, not least in the Council of Europe's various conventions, I will take the opportunity to address them that I do not think this is a good idea. You have to deal with the obligations you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1606	During the last period of government, the Right’s representatives criticized the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Workers’ Party for not being sufficiently concerned with human rights. I do not agree with that criticism. But now I hear that the Foreign Minister himself, in his presentation, uses the term ‘more dialogue and less megaphone’. Is there a political statement in this quotation? What dilemmas does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see in a situation where we find that more and more countries are violating human rights? It is important that Norway’s voice is heard, but it is also important that they listen to us. How will the Foreign Minister promote human rights in due course?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1611	I'm glad that the question came up, because there were several people who were involved in it in their articles. In my foreign policy statement, I began with the importance of defending the order and the rule of law and democracies that we have built since World War II, and that the liberal order may be challenged for the first time since World War II. In my article here now I underlined what this liberal order consists of. It also includes freedom of assembly, freedom of expression, women’s rights – all these are human rights. So I think there's bigger reason than for a long time, unfortunately, to put human rights high on the agenda, because they're challenged. But this with megaphone and dialogue is related to how to deal with it so that you are sure to do it in such a way that you get through and listen to it. It is using the art of diplomacy to effectively promote these values that are so important – that they are not seen as Western values. These are universal values.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1620	In both the United States and the EU, people have seen global and regional agreements shift power from elected representatives to global companies – agreements such as the EEA, such as NAFTA and other major regional agreements. People are not stupid. When the wage growth of ordinary workers is still for 20 years and there is almost no growth in the number of jobs, the differences increase dramatically because a small elite is left with the full gain. In the announcement, the Council of State said, among other things: ‘We have believed in the ability of our political systems to cope with globalisation and to distribute the benefits of globalisation to all peoples’. [[...]] Could it be interpreted as a small admission from State Council? I would like to ask the Council of State: does he still believe that ever more deregulation of trade is the right medicine, and that the stronger delimitation of the national states' power and the possibility of national voters to regulate trade from local and national point of view is the way to go? Can he say anything about the events in the last year changing his view on whether agreements such as TISA and TTIP are necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1632	This is a big question. If you start in 1990, you have doubled the global value creation, you have more than halved the number of people living in extreme poverty, and at the same time it has reached 2 billion people on earth, more people than what lived on our planet in 1900. What has been the locomotive in this? Yes, it is global trade. Global trade has tripled at the same time. So without the trade as a locomotive, I think it would have been very demanding. I don't think we'd seen that fight against poverty. Look at the 1930s, where you're referring to protectionism. Then global trade fell by 50 pst. and global GNI of 25 pst. But then it's about how different countries behave when competition gets tougher. Of course, if people fall outside, it is up to the countries themselves to have a distribution policy that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1637	It was tempting to follow up on the last one, but I assumed that then I might not have asked questions to the Council of State. Today, the UN Women's Conference, as I mentioned in my speech, began, and we see that women's rights are increasingly under pressure in the world. We see that a coalition of orthodox Christians, Catholic and Muslim countries together has organized themselves well in the fight against women's rights, also in a separate organization. Initiatives have been launched by the most liberally run countries: Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands – plus Sweden – those countries where women’s rights are strong, in order to try to organise counterpowers. I wish Norway could also be part of it and organize internationally. Does the Foreign Minister have plans for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1645	I assume it is 'She Decides' to which the representative of Skei Grande refers. I understand that the differences will sometimes be identified in the policy, but differences that are not there must not be reconstructed, because we have fully supported this initiative. I have even received feedback from Development Minister Lilianne Ploomen in the Netherlands, who says a thousand thanks for having supported Norway, and you, Børge, so warmly. We are one of the countries that has gone a long way in re-prioritizing ourselves to support this. So I think everyone now better be involved and think about how we can further contribute constructively to working for women's rights through education, but also this with reproductive health. How can we do even more for these questions? And I'm completely open to discussing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1650	The Minister has previously stated that the government's policy is to implement the probation agreement, the so-called CTBT, and to launch negotiations on the ban on the production of fissile material, FMCT. First of all, in practice, it is blocked by the fact that major powers such as China and the United States do not ratify him, while lastly, The Fissile Material Cut-off Treaty, mainly suffer from Pakistan's insistence on continuing its production of fissile material intended for the production of nuclear weapons. During a high-level meeting of the proposed agreement on the prohibition of the production of fissile material at the beginning of March, Pakistan's nuclear power again chose to oppose concrete negotiations which would make it illegal to produce material useful for nuclear weapons. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs do well to see how Norway sees that negotiations for such an agreement can be successful, especially given that the annual UN Disarmament Conference no longer has a consensus?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1657	In this room there is a broad consensus to support the NPT Non-Proliferation Agreement. It contains a lot of elements, and what we now experience as the greatest immediate threat is what we experience in North Korea. Norway, like many, has condemned this, and the Security Council has also made it very clear. The greatest immediate danger we're facing in the field of nuclear weapons, it's spread, and it's probably already been the result that North Korea has developed nuclear weapons, and they also have rockets that might shoot them out. We have to deal with this. For example: Iran, we have put the agreement with Iran in place during this period, which is important for us to maintain. With regard to the special points relating to Pakistan, I share the representative's view, and we are also working to ensure that they do not get through to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1664	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1669	For the sake of order, the 'She Decides' initiative came from a Dutch social democrat. I mention it because we're proud of it. There are many developments internationally that give cause for concern. The notified famine in Africa is mentioned. The prospect of ending the wars in Syria and Yemen is still ugly. The migration flow from Africa continues. It drowns people in the Mediterranean every day. The uprising in eastern Ukraine continues, with Russian support. EU countries are not able to agree on a common approach to asylum and refugee challenges. The United States has got a president who puts the United States first and creates great uncertainty about its policies in a number of areas. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his broad presentation, listed five pillars of action in the age of this uncertainty — primarily ‘safety, security and well-being’ for Norway, a clear priority. The contribution of foreign policy is to be ‘a clear, recognizable and predictable’ ally, a stable root fixation in a world of great rootlessness and with transatlantic cooperation and NATO as the most important alliances. But I think we should be prepared that it may be more demanding to be a so-called good ally under the new President of the White House. We've told the United States earlier when we've been in disagreement, so we're going to get good friends and allies on the wrong roads. We did that when the United States invaded Iraq on false premises, but it was not the Right that provided. Had the Right got through, we would then have joined a war that was not only a failure and with great ring-effects, as the Foreign Minister said, but which lacked international legal anchoring. President Trump and his administration have not only sent disturbing signals to consider withdrawing from WTO commitments, they have already implemented changes, such as drawing support for family planning in development policy. They have an energy minister, Rick Perry, who is in doubt about the impact of CO 2 on climate, and a director of the Environment Directorate, who is a climate skeptic. The President's chief strategist does not want to revitalise international institutions to better meet challenges we face, but to tear them down in fillets, in order to put "Americana First". Furthermore, the President’s twitter messages appear to be the main basis for interpreting policy. Norway must, as others have said, deal with the President of the United States people choose, objectively and tidy. But we must be prepared for the style to continue, and we can hope that the content in areas that are important to us and other allies will be moderated. We have seen it in the position of NATO, as Minister of Defence Mattis presented it in Munich, but I have my doubts as to whether this will happen in other areas such as climate and trade. Here we should give our support to Chancellor Merkel's emphasis on the fact that security policy is not just about military strength. We must now have known that, in Afghanistan, in Iraq, in Libya. It is also about contributing to economic and social development in the Sahel countries, so that people there can have faith in a future where they are. How else are we going to stop the migration flow and prevent the uncertainty it creates? The vote of Norway must support this position, also at the next NATO summit. Some aspects of the debate on burden-sharing and 2 p.m. ambition in NATO: in many countries such an increase in defence budgets will be a major economic challenge, and in the light of the economic challenges facing many European countries after the financial crisis, we must also take a broader perspective here. There is no increased expenditure on defence that is the best way to speed up the economy. On the contrary, it can be a burden. If Europe does not succeed in economic growth, in bringing down unemployment, the political landscape is more open to the right-wing populism we see emphasizing the debate in several of the countries, a right-wing populism growing on the simplest of all: talking dissatisfied and afraid of the mouth, but without having real solutions to real problems. This will also be about our security, our security and our well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1693	Let me first thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very good presentation. Europe is in a time of destiny. The last year has been in many ways an annus horribilis. The uncertainty is greater than ever. The cohesion and the community of values are cracking in the joints. The word we build our liberal democracies – freedom, the rule of law, respect for human rights – is under strong pressure. There are values that the generations before us have fought out -- values that we may have taken for granted, but that we now have to stand up for. 2017 is the year of the marking of the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, the start of the European integration process, a cooperation aimed at strengthening economic development and laying the foundation for lasting peace on a war-torn continent. Now we see the emergence of nationalism and protectionism, and in several countries the political development of authoritarian, anti-democratic direction. The surface fleas of the European party landscape are strengthening. This is a cause for concern for the weakening of European cooperation. We see reduced confidence in elected representatives and authorities and excessive belief that the nation state can deal with all challenges alone, without cooperation with other countries. We see fear of alienation, polarization, a search for simple solutions, often disconnected from facts. We must be optimistic and work to ensure that such flows do not get footholds, and against winning terrain also in Norwegian policy, because they will make us vulnerable at a time when the need for common solutions and cohesion is great, not least in foreign and security policy. The outcome of the parliamentary elections in the Netherlands, Germany and France this year will be crucial for the stability of Europe in the future. We don't need more nationalist populism. We need more European cooperation and cohesion. It is only through cooperation with others that we fight the increasing emergence of protectionism, nationalism and extremism. The EU, for its part, needs to look at the need for internal reforms, not least the need to ensure better control over its own external borders. The Central Bank Governor expressed in his recent annual concern that increased protectionism and a less free world trade would have serious consequences for the Norwegian economy. For Norway, which has a small, open economy, this is central. Trade, exports of goods and services, technology and knowledge are what we live by. Trade has lifted millions of people out of extreme poverty in recent years. The United Kingdom is one of Norway’s most important partners in Europe and one of our most important trading partners. Norway is directly affected by brexit through EEA cooperation. It is important that the solutions negotiated also fit into an EEA context where appropriate. Therefore, it is good that the government is so close to the negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom on the content of future cooperation – in order to decide what needs to be included in a separate free trade agreement with the United Kingdom. For Norway and the Norwegian economy, access to the EU's internal market is crucial. It is alarming when both Norwegian political parties and leading organisations seem to have forgotten what the EEA Agreement means to us. For Norway, it must be important not to doubt that we want to continue the EEA Agreement. It guarantees Norwegian export companies access to the EU's internal market with 500 million people. Many of these are small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts that provide thousands of Norwegian jobs. The possibility for a free trade agreement to replace the EEA Agreement is based on an out-of-date notion of market access. The EU's internal market is about far more than that, such as common rules on services and the movement of capital and persons. A whole generation of Nordics have grown up with the possibility of taking education, working and establishing themselves freely throughout the EEA territory, with the right to social security benefits and health care. Norway needs the EEA Agreement in the same way as the world needs the EU, more than ever. The government, through an active European policy and foreign policy, has also shown that it is fully possible to look after Norwegian interests while at the same time meeting our obligations in international agreements and organisations. We cannot isolate ourselves from constructive international cooperation. Bilateral agreements where each country only cares about its own country’s needs prevent good synergies and cooperation in important areas, such as: climate and safety issues. The changeable times are marked by a Russia that leans far beyond its own borders, and an American that, with Trump, turns more inward. From the NATO country of Turkey, it is now announced that Erdogan is reconsidering the refugee agreement with the EU. Security policy must return to the cold days of war in order to find challenges and a threat picture similar to what we are facing now. Norway has responsibility – and takes responsibility. For Norway, NATO is in the north. We are NATO's eyes and ears in the vast seas, and we are responsible for ensuring good control and understanding of the situation. It's our most important task in NATO, a cooperation we've built our defence and security policy after World War II. Last week, part of us from the Foreign and Defence Committee visited the joint Viking exercise in Finnmark. There are Norwegian strengths of winter training with British and Americans, i.e. our most important allies. It is essential to ensure the necessary impact when the situation so requires. The Nordic regions are our most important area of foreign policy interest. Sovereignty enforcement requires presence. That is why it is important that in the long-term plan of defence, we have stressed an increased presence in our northernmost part of the country. We're setting up a new hunting company on Border Guard and increasing the number of training days in the 2nd battalion. The human and military centre of gravity is moved northwards. We sail more, fly more and practice more, especially in the north. Norway is going ahead in NATO, and I am proud that the Right now has programmed the alliance commitment of 2 p.m. by 2024. It is absolutely necessary to ensure continued enhanced defence capabilities and increased burden-sharing in the alliance. Norway is already among the best in the class, but although we have increased the defence budget every year under this government, it will require a considerable increase in defence spending for many years to come in order for us to have the defence capability that Norway should have and for us to achieve the target of 2 pst. The majority of Stortinget agreed to invest in, among others: new submarines, new coastguard, marine surveillance and F-35 fighter aeroplanes as part of the long-term plan. We're going to keep using at least 20 pst. by the defence budget on investments in the Defence. It's important at a time when we're totally dependent on making new forward-looking investments to meet a new threat picture. An offensive north-eastern policy is about both foreign and domestic policies. The government strengthens the defence in the north and rates to develop North Norway into one of the country's most creative and sustainable regions. Increased activity and presence are the best starting points for asserting our sovereignty. The change in pace we have experienced in the north in the last decade has created great optimism and promises good for Norway also in a security policy perspective. I look forward to the presentation of the choice message with excitement. Europe needs to take more responsibility for its own security, and it is good that defence cooperation between European allies is strengthened. Without security no security, without security no development. It is only through continuing committed international cooperation through the UN, through NATO and in our own EEA variant with the EU that we are securing the future of Norway both economically and politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1727	Let me also thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation last week. However, I would challenge thinking new and thinking alternatively. I believe we should do that in a debate – not just boast of each other, but actually think new and think differently and try to create an atmosphere of world movement, and that politics is not fixed, but that we should change politics as the world moves. That's why it's important in these times to keep your tongue straight in your mouth. We need to know what forces we need to support, and what forces we want to counteract. The Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed a number of key policy challenges in his presentation. The most important thing is to analyse the megatrends that take place. We must not just describe and condemn, but understand. What we know is that supranational institutions are weakening, and that countries are once again concerned with asserting their national identity. The citizens are concerned about the absence of real democracy and that decisions are taken over their heads. Not least, people are most concerned with preserving their national culture. These are not developments that rock the natural world, they rock the elite. It may be a threat to the established, but our task as the people's representatives is not at any cost to defend the established. We're going to take people seriously, and the truth is that people feel more and more alienated. They feel distance from their politicians. They experience the consequences of collective political decisions on which they themselves do not have influence or wish. Those who express this experience stamping, and they are quickly characterised as populists by the elite and the media, a negatively charged concept. In earlier times, similar protests against the elite were referred to as popular protests or insurrections. At that time, most of the media were playing along. These are the ones with the power of definition. The popular protests in the past were based on idealism. However, today's protests are equally real and followed by at least the same level of commitment. It's actually the same people who protest. It's not our role as elected representatives to tell people that they don't understand their own best. It's our job as politicians to represent the people and take people's concerns seriously. There are several megatrends, such as population growth, the emergence of Islamic totalitarian ideology, automation and technology development, increased distinction between poor and rich, shifting global economic power, liberal values being under pressure and a number of other things, and not least a meaningless waste of money on climate action with uncertain aims and marginal effects. Yes, I'm actually saying that, and it might have been the elephant that said from here: there's one in this room that dares to say that very many actually mean. And then I'd like to admit that I'm a climate skeptic and I'm so sorry to the representative Hansson, who believes that the world's starvation is due to global warming. Him about it. It is important that we understand that, for example, it is not very productive to present Russia as aggressive and at the same time insist that we want to normalize relations with the country. Nor is it wise to talk about violations of international law when you want dialogue, trade, cultural exchanges, cooperation on search and rescue or on oil protection. Before taking comprehensive foreign policy decisions, an exit strategy must be established. These are the sanctions against Russia, and not least the military exposures of the West. The intentions are good, but the consequences of the duration are highly uncertain. For example, ‘A war against terrorism’ is an overly unsound objective and can be understood from the point of view of infinity. Nor can our objective of promoting democracy and stability be said to be particularly successful, as the Foreign Minister pointed out in his presentation. With indefinable objectives in combination with high economic and human costs, we should work towards getting out of the conflicts in the long term. That should be our central goal in 2017: how we get out of the military conflicts, not how we involve ourselves even more. We will have a debate later on developments in Afghanistan, and I hope that part of the lesson there is to take the Godal report seriously. The sanctions against Russia were a quick decision that the West is struggling to get out of today without losing its face. We know that Russia will never leave Crimea, and we know that the West has great benefits of economic growth in Russia and good relations for the rest. Not least this applies to Norway. I am pleased that former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch made this clear at the Right National Meeting: I cannot see any realism behind the expectations that Crimea will return to Ukraine. And further, when imposing sanctions, you don't always think thoroughly about how to get out of it. It is also positive that Jahn Otto Johansen expresses the same in a chronicle in the newspaper today. I see that time is running out. I was going to talk a little bit about the Netherlands and Turkey, but there are probably others who can do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1755	Like everyone else, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a rich and, in my opinion, a good account, and I agree with him that a political debate on matters that have been resolved positively because of good political craftsmanship should be invited. The peace agreement in Colombia and the normalisation of our relationship with China are examples of such matters as well as two good examples showing that the important role of diplomacy in conflicts and relations is mostly troubling. I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs and his staff for their good work. The peace agreement in Sri Lanka was also raised in the presentation as a positive case, and so is it. But, as we saw in the News of the Day yesterday, peace is challenged by the fact that very many people don't know what happened to their loved ones after the peace agreement came into place. The report made an impression. If Norway can contribute in this context, it will be a close question to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister for Foreign Affairs used a lot of his presentation to focus on the political challenges we see are getting foothold in Europe – and rightly so. In countries by country, we see that nationalist and protectionist forces with footholds far to the right in European policies are gaining greater and greater impact on voters. Representatives of these parties win with a simple and, in part, dangerous rhetoric that all the mistakes in society are caused by certain parts of the population. We get a we-and-dem society, where ‘we’ are always right, and those who represent ‘them’ are the cause of all the injustices in society. The election in the Netherlands on Wednesday will be a test of whether the right-wing populist Geert Wilders wins with this kind of political rhetoric. More have been concerned with what is happening in the tense situation between Turkey and the Netherlands. There's a reason to focus on it. We record the use of words from the leader of Turkey about the political leaders of other countries who are not part of the political change between democratic countries. That's not good, to say it a little bit diplomatic. What's happening now is pouring petrol on the fire for all those who support the policy of anti-Islamists like Geert Wilders, France's Marine Le Pen and others. I feel fear on behalf of my children and grandchildren' future. People leave a policy where the message is that standing together makes a strong one, for the benefit of a policy where each country stands behind its closed borders and exclaims: I am the strongest, and I will become stronger! I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs who, in his statement, says that ‘the need for a strong European voice in international policy has been greater’. In my previous foreign policy statement, I criticized the Minister for Foreign Affairs for not saying a single word about the northern regions. That criticism has been put to shame this time. For the Workers' Party, the Nordic regions are Norway's main strategic bet area. We put the northern regions on the geopolitical map, strengthened regional cooperation between the Arctic states and strengthened infrastructure, employment, education and research in the northern states. I am pleased that today's government is following in our footsteps. It is very important that the Arctic and Nordic areas have a place in government's north-eastern policy. I also see the presentation as a clear signal that the government is improving our relationship with Russia. I agree with those who say it's time, while making it clear that we have to stick to Russia in a predictable, consistent, clear and firm way. And then we'll have to bear some critical remarks from our neighbor in the east about how we want to practice our defence policy as part of NATO on Norwegian soil. The Minister of Foreign Affairs sums up the government’s foreign policy in meeting today’s extremely demanding environment through the two words ‘responsible realism’. What I'm reading here is very interesting. One of the expressions used is ‘more dialogue and less megaphone’, which have been discussed by many in their speeches — an expression that is very appropriate for maintaining Norway’s close and good relations with the new political leadership in the United States, but it also fits well with our relationship with our neighbor in the east. The importance of the Arctic for both countries in relation to the growing interest in the Arctic means that we need to further strengthen our north-eastern diplomacy. It alerted the visit to Arkhangelsk to meet Foreign Minister Lavrov on his home track documenting a willingness to show that diplomacy trumps megaphone also in our relationship with Russia. Several have been involved in the famine in Africa, Syria and Yemen. I also think it is worth taking into account in this debate. The images from there make a very, very deep impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1776	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1781	When Donald Trump was elected President of the United States, the then Presidential candidate in France, Sarkozy, proposed a climate tax, a so-called "border tax adjustment" on goods from the United States if the United States withdrew from the climate agreement. There is currently a debate in the EU on a climate tax on imports due to the significant climate cost differences in European producers on goods as opposed to goods produced in countries with no or very low climate costs. One of the counter-arguments to think through such a climate tax is that it should not be allowed within the rules of the World Trade Organisation, the WTO. The Foreign Minister himself said this when he rejected our proposal last week after his statement to assess a climate tax on goods imported from countries outside the Paris Agreement – and the United States, if they were to consider withdrawing. The Foreign Minister's conclusion was far too easy. Much indicates that it is directly wrong. I would like to give the Minister for Foreign Affairs two references that he should address. In 2013, former WTO staff member Jennifer Hillman wrote in the report ‘Changing climate for carbon tariffs’ that the WTO Code allows countries with carbon tariffs to introduce so-called non-discriminatory harmonised tariffs in both intention and letter. Similarly, Professor Joost Pauwelyn of Duke University of the United States in his 2012 article ‘Carbon Leakage Measurements and Border Tax Adjustments’ pointed out that a carbon tax on imports could be approved by the WTO as a limit adjustment to a national system of CO 2 taxes and CO 2 allowances. This is not about weakening the WTO, but rather about exploiting the already existing global trade policy legislation to ensure that climate costs are introduced into as many products as possible globally, and that those countries that do not take part in the burden cannot escape. It will help to reduce global climate change, and it will strengthen the WTO as a trade policy framework for a better world. I repeat, therefore, that Norway, together with other like-minded countries, should take the initiative to assess a climate tax on imports of goods from countries that do not fulfil their obligations under the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1798	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1816	This interpellation comes late in the evening, but it's no less important for that reason. And those of us who turned up in the evening post today got a very tragic example of why this interpellation is up to date. I can just quote from there, because we often hang out in the big numbers. Sometimes it is possible to reflect a little on how it is experienced by the individual who is being persecuted. The title of the Evening Post today is as follows: ‘First, a question of faith. So a shot in the head. ‘... We are talking about Christians who are forced to leave their homes north of Sinai. In the evening post today some of those who survived tell how terror struck the city of Al-Arish. «In the late evening, men knocked on the door of the Hakim family in the city of Al-Arish, north of the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt. It was a curfew and the intense beating made Saad Hakim and his wife Nabila worried. [[68]] [[43]] Your son Medhat nevertheless chose to open the door. The masked, armed men, who were members of the ISIS department in Egypt, called the Sinai Province, asked Medhat straight out: «Are you Christians?» He answered yes, and was immediately shot in his head and killed. The perpetrators then attacked Saad, who was killed with two shots at his head." It was the Evening Post of the day. In this debate, there may be grounds for recalling that freedom of belief is one of the most fundamental human rights. It is enshrined in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Article 18 states the following: «Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. This right includes the freedom to change religion or faith, and the freedom to express their religion or belief through teaching, practice, worship and rituals either alone or with others, and public or private.’ There are many life - vision minorities that are being persecuted. On my own questions, I have addressed the situation of Ahmadiyya Muslims in Pakistan with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We have a large number of other religious minorities who are being persecuted, but right in this interview, I was going to spend the most time on Christians who are being persecuted. The Middle East, which some 100 years ago was a region of ethnic and religious diversity, now hardly has any Christians left. The Economist interviewed last summer the Assyrian-Christian archbishop Nicodemus in Mosul, Iraq. He was then in Kurdish Erbil because of the IS invasion of Mosul. In Mosul, the ancient churches were burned down and the cathedral transformed into a mosque dedicated to jihad. Not even during the Mongol invasion of the 1200s was it so bad, he says. The archbishop believes that the IS invasion is the culmination of a long-lasting, negative spiral for Christians in the Middle East. Let me take an example from Iraq: when Iraq became independent in 1932, Christians constituted 12 p.m. by the population. When Saddam Hussein was removed from power in 2003, the proportion had fallen to 6 p.m. I guess today the number of Christians might be somewhere between 1 and 2 pst. The repression applies not only to Christians, Jews, homosexuals, atheists or Bahais, but also to Muslim minorities. Shia is hit in sun-dominated countries and sunny in shiadominated countries. And as I mentioned, ahmadiyyas are hit in both sunni and shia-oriented countries. No religion has a flawless history of freedom of belief. Over the centuries, Christian Europe has had persecution of different kinds of thinking. But now we are in 2017 and have to deal with the challenges we have here. Of course, a challenge for the Minister of Foreign Affairs is what we can do on the Norwegian side. I don't expect any sedentary, sesame solution. With all due respect for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, there are certain limitations for him too, but Norway has done and can and should do something. I think it also has a self-esteem that we are raising this debate, even though the instruments may not seem to meet the challenges that lie there. My wish – the wish of the Christian People's Party – is that freedom of faith must be lifted high on the agenda of Norwegian foreign policy. We believe that all Norwegian embassies in countries where religious freedom is suppressed should have a systematic plan, preferably in cooperation with other donor countries, for example, in order to make the authorities responsible for the protection of minority religious freedom. In concrete terms – second, we need to do more to ensure freedom of belief in the refugee camps in the Middle East, which we now share in financing, and which unfortunately are not tempted by religious oppression. Thirdly, Norway should support the work of Christians, Jesuits and Turkmens to secure a safe area in Iraq where they can live in peace and security. The Nineveh province has been proposed as such, not unlike the establishment of the Kurds' territory in northern Iraq in the 1990s, and then supported by Western aid. The Nineve initiative has been supported by the Government of Iraq and by Congress representatives in the United States. However, the proposal is controversial among Sunni Muslims in the area. Therefore, international support and pressure are also needed to succeed. This is particularly relevant now that the capital of the Nineveh province, Mosul, is about to be released from the IS. If this initiative is successful, the Nineveh province can become a model for similar areas with decentralised governance in Syria. I'm excited to hear the Foreign Minister's assessments and the debate we're going to have. And, as I said, I think it's a value in itself, because it's noticed that this important issue is also being raised in countries where freedom of faith – fortunately – has a completely different situation and ground than in the countries to which I have now referred. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1867	First, thank the representative, Mr Syversen, for putting this important topic on the agenda through an interpellation. Discrimination and persecution against religious minorities are unfortunately a major problem in many parts of the world. This is particularly true in vulnerable countries, in war and conflict, and in the post-war and post-conflict reconstruction phase, but also in many other societies religious minorities are under pressure. In the Middle East, the region's many conflicts are marked by sectarian expressions. This makes religious minorities particularly vulnerable to violence and discrimination. What's sad is that over hundreds of years, these minorities have lived side by side, without this being a problem. There we see a negative development, and not just a negative development in relation to the last few years, but a negative development that breaks with something that has actually worked in many places for hundreds of years. Population groups suffer from severe suffering. Ancient cultures can be lost. This is not least the case in Iraq and Syria, where religious minorities are driven on the run and subjected to gross abuse, as the representative of the Syversen was also involved. Minority people who refuse to submit to the extreme ideology of ISIL are systematically persecuted. Religious minorities are expelled from their communities. Regional rivalry strengthens these lines of conflict. In many countries in North Africa too, the situation of religious minorities is difficult, and also in Pakistan. The promotion of human rights is central to Norwegian foreign policy. Protection of religious minorities is a priority part of this. A stronger focus on religious minorities and freedom of belief and life is not only good human rights policy, it is also good development policy and a wise security policy. The Government therefore aims in 2017 to increase support to promote religious freedom and to protect religious minorities. We're working along multiple tracks. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ minority project is a good platform for dialogue with knowledge-rich Norwegian and international environments. A self-director has been developed for the work on beliefs and beliefs. It has been well received. An independent special representative is in constant contact with the International Contact Group for Freedom of Thought and Life, relevant UN Special Rapporteurs and other international networks. Freedom of belief and life is part of Norway's political dialogue with individual countries, including the Middle East. This must be done in a constructive way, in order to safeguard the situation of minorities. In some countries, religious groups do not want special treatment as minorities. Norway places great emphasis on freedom of belief and life in its work in the United Nations and other international organisations. We regularly address the situation of minorities in the UN, at the latest at the UN General Assembly in October and at the UN Minority Forum in November 2016. There is no doubt about Norway’s position on these issues. Over the years, the government has supported the International Parliamentary Network for Freedom of Faith and Life. Representative Abid Q. Raja has made an important effort in this way. Furthermore, we support the Minority Rights Group, which is working to strengthen the minority's ability to promote their rights towards their own authorities. Interreligious dialogue is an important instrument in Norway’s work on peace and reconciliation. We therefore support measures to increase understanding and tolerance between representatives of different religions in the Middle East. Civil society organisations may also seek the support of Norad for measures to promote freedom of belief and religion in developing countries. Religious discrimination, violence and radicalisation are often linked. Last summer, Norway hosted a conference on violent extremism. We followed up with attendance at a summit on the same theme in New York last autumn. Norway has strongly condemned the very serious and systematic abuses committed by the ISIL terrorist organisation. We contribute to international initiatives to document the abuses in order to ensure the necessary evidence for criminal prosecution. Through our efforts in the international coalition against ISIL, we create a safer everyday life for minorities as well as for the majority population. The protection of religious minorities is also given an increasing place in humanitarian aid. Many of ISIL’s victims of sexualized and gender-based violence, both women and men, belong to vulnerable religious minorities such as Jesuits and Christians, as was the case with the representative Syversen. Last year it was granted over 50 million. to organisations working with victims of sexualised and gender-based violence in Iraq and Syria. In cooperation with the Church's Emergency Aid and the World Council of Churches, a separate report has been prepared on the protection needs of religious minorities in Syria and Iraq. As a follow-up to this report, we prioritise actions related to conflict-related sexualised violence, with a particular focus on Jesuit women returning from ISIL captivity. The Government will therefore increase support for measures for victims of sexual and gender-based violence in Iraq and Syria in 2017. In Iraq, among other things, actions aimed at minority groups in relation to the return of internal refugees. Experience from this work will also help us in our efforts in other countries in the region. Norwegian support is to be arranged so that we reach the most vulnerable. The government is developing its own strategy for action in vulnerable countries. The rights of minorities will form a natural part of this strategy. The protection of religious minorities will also have an important place in the government's announced policy of growth. We speak with a clear voice. Norway has been, and will continue to be, a strong defender of freedom of belief and the rights of religious minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1905	Thanks for the Minister of Foreign Affairs' review of the measures taken and taken by Norway, and the signals he gives about putting this further on the agenda. I noticed in particular that this will also have an important place in the government's announced announcement of development policy and in the strategy for vulnerable countries. We look forward to coming back to that, even in the treatment here in Stortinget. But I want to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs in concrete terms in terms of the work north of Iraq, which many believe is important, in order to ensure different life-view minorities in the Nineveh province, whether they are Christians, Jesuits or Turkmens. Yes, there is resistance to this, but at the same time we see a certain parallel to this, namely in the Kurdish regions. That's where the minorities have the safest relationship. I would like to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs for his view on whether this work is something Norway will support below, and whether he believes that it is well worth pursuing from the Norwegian side. Similarly, how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs view cooperation with other donor countries when freedom of religion is to be put on the agenda in the various countries – having a common, coherent policy where possible, in order to ensure, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself said, the often most vulnerable groups, which are often both in a conflict situation and are minorities in such a conflict situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1914	We know that in many countries religious minorities are under great pressure, as I also explained in my reply to the interpellant's posts. If we look at Egypt and the situation of the Coptic Christians, we must take it seriously. A little bit lower than 10 pst. of the Egyptian population are Coptic Christians. In dialogue with both Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry and President Sisi in Egypt, I have raised this question and met with a great deal of goodwill in looking at both projects and how we can follow this up. When visiting Islamabad in Pakistan, I have also taken up the situation of Christians in Pakistan, who are extremely concerned, and also the Shiaminority in Pakistan, who are experiencing major violations. With regard to the situation in Iraq, of course, it is the responsibility of the Iraqi State to ensure that all population groups can maintain their own culture, language and religion. I have also raised with Prime Minister Abadi directly and with other representatives of the Government of Iraq Iraqi authorities and their responsibility to include in their policies more protection of minorities and national reconciliation. That is, there are now many internal refugees in the Erbil region and in the Kurdish parts of Iraq. We've been in there with a great deal of humanitarian effort, and we've also had Norwegian soldiers in this part. In conversations with President Barzani during two visits to Erbil, this has been part of my dialogue. I have also thanked them for receiving so many internal refugees in this part of Iraq. But there are millions of people who have come, and here we have to deal with development aid, but also with humanitarian aid. That is where I think we have a great responsibility. With falling oil prices, the Kurdish part of Iraq is also facing major challenges in caring for the millions who have fled.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1923	Thank you to the interpellant for bringing up a very topical topic, as we see from today's media. The right to believe and the right to not believe is important that we stand up for. If we look around, we see, as both the inter-pellant and the foreign minister have said, that religious freedom and freedom of life are getting worse and worse. In several Islamic – perhaps Muslim – countries, it is becoming increasingly difficult to be different and different. In Shia Muslim Iran, Sunni Muslims are oppressed and persecuted. In Pakistan it is exactly the opposite, but also various Christian congregations are being oppressed. An Iranian woman who is a Pentecostal got her husband home in pieces -- brutal, pointless, and fanatical. Iran also has more than 300 prisoners of freedom of belief. The ISIS Terrorist Group is knocking on all different kinds of different approaches and practices. The religious group of Jesuits in Northern Iraq, as we have heard about here, is almost wiped out by ISIL, a group that, incidentally, Anja Breien has made a very good film about. We also see how Boko Haram strikes down on all other religious groups, such as the Catholic Church. the charismatic evangelical movements. Less known is perhaps the increasing Hindu nationalism in India, which does not tolerate other religions. Both Muslims, Christians, and humanists are subjected to gross persecution. We also see extreme violence against Muslims in Myanmar. In Central Asia we see harassment of different kinds, and in Pakistan, as I have already mentioned, more and more people are accused of blasphemy. We have not always been free in Norway either. Even I grew up in a Pentecostal home in the 1950s and 1960s, in a town in the East, and experienced the harassment of the great community by the small sect or congregation. Today, we see Muslimism, which is constantly growing in some groups. But in Norway, we have the formal rights. We have laws and rights to believe what we want, or not believe, and it's absolutely fundamental. In an increasing number of countries, laws prohibiting or suppressing certain religions are also introduced. In Sudan there is a ban on the conversion from Islam. In Egypt, which is mentioned here, there is no building permit for houses other than mosques, which affects the Coptic minority. We also see ever more stringent censorship of religious literature in Egypt. I'm afraid it's a little bit worse. 43 pst. of all countries have restrictions on freedom of belief. 74 pst. the population of the world lives in countries that have regulations that discriminate against religious minorities. We see an increase in religious terror in 41 pst. by all countries. The Middle East is probably the area where it's the worst. There is a network of parliamentarians, which I would like to highlight at the end of my speech, who are working for freedom of belief. It was founded in Oslo in Stortinget in November 2014 with an Oslo declaration. 30 parliamentarians from all over the world were present at the seminar in the den, which Mr Q. Raja led and I opened. Members of Parliament may make a difference. That is why parliamentary cooperation is important. It may contribute to a better understanding of governments and other rulers. In September 2015, Abid Q. Raja, Sylvi Graham and I attended a conference in New York. It was strong to hear all the evidence from different countries. In September 2016, 130 parliamentarians were gathered in Berlin, among others. Abid Q. Raja, as far as I know. Finally, the work on freedom of belief must be an integral part of Norwegian foreign policy. I noticed that it is intended as a topic in the upcoming development message. I have to say that when the number of Christians sinks so dramatically in several countries in the Middle East as mentioned by the interpellant here, there is really reason to engage in that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1944	I put myself in line to commend the initiative of the Syversen on this interpellence debate, for this is a debate that we, as politicians in a free country, must keep alive, and the requirement to protect Article 18 of the Declaration of Human Rights must be effectively held up as a torch. The right to have one’s own faith – or even the right to change your faith – is granted there. This right – which unfortunately so many others of the values on which we have traditionally built our society – is under strong pressure. All minorities, whether they are cultural, ethnic, religious or sexual minorities, are experiencing very many conditions in today's world. This is an area where, as a nation, we can make an effort. It requires vigilance, no restful watch. Most recently today, as we have heard before, we can read in the Evening Post about the situation of Christians in Egypt, who were hunted by IS. And it's not just there, also in Iraq, Syria and Nigeria, we've learned about atrocities committed against life-vision minorities – Christians, jesidians, Bahais or others, just to name someone. In Myanmar, the Rohingya Muslims are the victims of abuse, and in Pakistan, the Ahmadiyya Muslims are subjected to acts of violence. Looking at the global turmoil, it will be possible to conclude – as Hans Olav Syversen has done – that it is high time to stand together in the struggle for the right of all people to think as they will, believe or not believe as their own conscience governs them, and live out their vision of life openly, peacefully and fearlessly. Both having faith, changing faith or not having faith is a human right that there should be full freedom around. Unfortunately, the reality around the world today is quite different. Religious minorities are increasingly vulnerable and vulnerable to violent conflicts, not least. An important factor has been the emergence of radical Islamism. Such political ideologies have contributed to the alienation of religious minorities in the societies in which they live. In his foreign policy statement, which has been discussed in this Chamber earlier today, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘It has never been more important to invest in the values of our society on which we want other countries to recognise as central features of Norway: freedom, human rights, democracy, equality, justice and respect for the environment.’ These values form the core of the Norwegian social structure, therefore my reference to the torch in the introduction. It is my opinion that our government is working well for Norway to be just that. Human rights are at the bottom of both foreign and development policy. Freedom of expression, the protection of minorities and the fight against the death penalty are central. The same thing happens to women, equality and the rights of LHBTI people. Since 2014, Stortinget has also had a focus on these issues, when we set up the Interpolitical Group of Storting to work precisely for religious freedom. The group is – as was also mentioned by a predecessor in the pulpit – part of an international network of parliamentarians working on these issues, and with the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a conference was held in Oslo in 2014 in which parliamentarians from 27 countries signed the declaration to work to promote these rights. I was there that day, too, and I have no doubt that the lack of respect for freedom of belief and life is a major contributing cause of political dissatisfaction, and therefore suffering for many people. This government has also promoted a communication on human rights, opportunities for all, in which the first of the overall priorities of the government for its work on human rights was listed, and where the importance and priority of: ‘The individual’s freedom and participation — with emphasis on rights under particular pressure, such as freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and association and freedom of belief and freedom of life, and enhanced efforts for human rights defenders, independent media and the right to education.’ Religious freedom, good integration and the fight against extremism are «three peas in a pod» – three peas in an erteham. That should show that the question also concerns us here at home. That should be to our consideration. The fact is that when my beliefs violate another's beliefs, a dangerous limit is exceeded.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1979	First I want to thank the Sevens and the Christian People's Party for putting this important question on the agenda. In many parts of the world, people with a Christian view of life or other views of life are persecuted simply because of what they believe. The article in the Evening Item has already been mentioned today. There was a lot of content and also the title of the article: «Christian refugees after a killing wave in Egypt». Other worst countries are North Korea, Iraq, Eritrea, Afghanistan, Syria, Pakistan and Somalia, and people from several of these countries are refugees to Norway. Christians in over 60 countries experience discrimination when it comes to education and work, they get harassed, their families are torn, their homes are taken away, beaten, raped, tortured, maimed, they can sit in prison, and some are killed. It is, as the representative Syversen writes, in many cases very gross and systematic violations, which it is difficult for a civilised society and a civilised world to sit and watch and accept. In some places, there's a clean cleaning going on. Also in Norway, we know that many people do not, or at least experience that they do not, have a real choice of freedom of belief. Among other things, there may be Muslims who have experienced it as difficult to leave their religion or to practice their religion differently from what is expected of family and others in the environment. Former Muslims in Norway have stood up with their stories and tell of threats, social exclusion, harassment and friends turning their backs on them. Some have also received killing threats. Of course, this can also apply in some Christian environments and in Christian directions or freedoms. The fundamental liberal view of the Progress Party is based on the fact that all people have certain universal freedoms and rights, regardless of where one lives in the world. This is freedom of expression, freedom of belief and protection of private property. The Progress Party will work to disseminate knowledge on human rights and combat violence and oppression. The improvement of the situation of religious and life opinion minorities requires both long-term awareness-raising and the involvement of belief and life-vision organisations, and the work should be carried out in close cooperation with civil society and like-minded countries. Dialogue may not always be sufficient. We therefore support international boycott attacks and sanctions against states when necessary, those who consistently violate human rights in a particularly brutal way. We want to work to ensure that countries that consistently suppress their citizens' fundamental rights are not placed in UN committees and committees, as they have as their primary task the promotion of just such rights. Finally, the rights of minorities of faith and life are a cornerstone of democracy, and it is therefore very important to work to strengthen these rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e1998	I would first of all like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing a very important issue and, not least, thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good forward-looking response. Unfortunately, there are very many religious groups in the world who are persecuted and oppressed, and then there are some mixed situations where religion and ethnicity are mixed together. An example of this is the Rohingya group in Myanmar, which has also been persecuted. According to the Pew Forum, 77 pst live. by the population of the world in countries where freedom of belief and freedom of life is severely restricted either by authorities or by society in general. It's an extremely high number. We know that human rights, in particular freedom of belief and freedom of life, are being broken across large parts of the world, but especially in conflict areas. In many countries, religious and cultural diversity is often perceived as a potential threat, and many authorities place restrictions on freedom of belief under the cover of an attempt to maintain national security, order and unity. Nevertheless, statistics show that diversity in a country does not explain the level of religious conflict or persecution. It does, on the other hand, regulate religion and the way of life of governments and society. The Middle East and Asia are the areas where the restrictions of freedom of worship are greatest. According to the Global Terrorism Index, in 2013–2014 there was a larger increase in people killed by terrorism than ever before. 80 pst. of the victims came from Afghanistan, Iraq, Nigeria, Pakistan or Syria, and religious freedom is at least not a theme in those countries. It is precisely in these countries that Pew Forum's measurements show that restrictions on freedom of belief, either anti-society or government restrictions, or both, are very large. The link between the refugee crisis, armed conflict, terror and the lack of religious freedom is overwhelming. To quote a professor: it's bad, and worse, it's because the bad guys are winning. There will be less freedom in the world year after year. Therefore, many good forces must come together and do something. I attended a conference in England in 2014, where we were five politicians from five different countries. The theme of the conference was religious freedom, and we sat there in the lunch break and decided that we should do something. In our naivety, we said that now we're going to start a global movement. It actually turned out to be almost as easily done as it was said, because it turned out that there was a great hunger — both nationally and internationally — after someone actually did something on this topic. Well-helped by the U.D. and the Free Word, we arranged our first conference here in Oslo. It was mentioned. Marit Nybakk received on behalf of the presidency, Børge Burnde opened the conference, Anniken Huitfeldt, Knut Arild Hareide and many other parliamentarians from Norway attended and signed that statement at the Nobel Peace Centre. An important foundation was laid, so last year, just a few years later, we arranged our third major conference in Berlin, where 130 politicians came from over 60 countries. Angela Merkel opened the conference, and she said the following: «Within a very short time, the International Panel of Parliamentarians for Freedom of Religion or Belief has established itself as the central actor for this essential fundamental right. The fact that there is now search for a strong network gives strings string, courage and confidence." So this started here in Norway, and Norway has had a leading role all the way. Several countries – Brazil, Canada, England, Pakistan and several other countries – have set up religious freedom groups, as the Stortinget also has, and in the budget last year the government parties adopted support for the Helsinki Committee, which is now becoming the secretariat of this international parliamentarian network. The support of the U.D. has been necessary, together with the other countries, and such support is also needed in the future. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State has chosen to continue this special mission, as the United Nations already has, and as the United States has. The EU now also has this, and several other countries see the need to have such special programmes. We have to have faith that we can help make a difference. Norwegian efforts are also needed from a wide variety of actions, and the U.D. and the government can do so, and the Stortinget can do so, and we will also do so through the religious freedom groups internationally. IPPFoRB has already written 16 letters of appeal and sent them to various heads of state, and we have also been on a dialogue trip to Myanmar to build contacts and talk to the authorities to improve conditions there. But we're totally dependent on the support of different heads of state and different states. We are very pleased that the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom has made IPP one of the three main priorities of the year to come, and I hope the U.D. notices that we are being noticed far beyond the borders of Norway. Their support is also necessary. In the end, I would like to praise the Freedom Group of the Great Britain for the cross-political way in which we have managed to gather together. Regardless of what we think politically, we have managed to agree on this, and this is something that is noticed when I meet colleagues from other parties and other countries' politicians in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2022	I don't think it's too much of a deal, even though we're probably close to the limit. I still enjoy the chance to give credit to the interpellant to capture an important theme. Like him, I have in different contexts in my time at Stortinget taking up the situation at different life-vision minorities in different places. The situation of Christians in the Middle East is definitely one of the most alarming, together with other life - vision minorities in the Middle East. I would also like to pay tribute to the Foreign Minister for a good and reflected response. I also participate in the religious freedom group here in Stortinget and will take advantage of the chance to say that I am impressed by, among other things. the work of the representative Abid Q. Raja has taken the initiative in the last few years, together with several of the representatives who have taken the floor here today. So far everything is very good. It's just that the reason we're doing all this work is, unfortunately, among the things that don't go in a particularly positive direction in the world. There are a lot of areas where the world is actually making progress, but this is one of the areas where there is particular cause for concern. I share the foreign minister's analysis that it might be particularly depressing to have looked straight beyond the Middle East and see the developments there over the last ten years, because there is a region in the world where different life views have a rare long history of being able to work well together. And as the representative Raja said from up here, it's full of examples that societies can work well with a great variety of different cultures and different ways of life if one manages to find and form good communities and takes on the very basic thing, that we humans have more that bind together than that divides us. It is also worth reflecting a little on what is the reason why it now seems to be a trend many places to greater acceptance for religiously based nationalism, oppression of others and, to the extent that also things in the border country are against ethnic discrimination. I think that the trends towards more nationalism and self-esteem based on ethnicity and the way of life that we see are a central part of it. When it comes to the Middle East, I believe it is important to take it up very directly that the emergence of extra-Islamism – not only IS, but also before they – is a direct reason why Christians, Jesuits and other minorities in the Middle East are now particularly pressurised. In the end, I found the work that has been here in Stortinget to be very positive, but also that the government has done in recent years to strengthen the Special Rapporteur. I see that we can discuss it in a broader context in the development policy message that is coming to spring. I think that makes sense. What I hope is that the Foreign Minister and the Government can take with them – he can comment on it in his post here too now – is whether it could also be natural for Norway to see the work we are doing, and the emphasis we put on the suppression of religious minorities and life-vision minorities, in connection with our immigration policy, because there is no doubt that even if the fundamental goal is that people with different life-views can preserve their culture and live together in land, as they have done, many people are being persecuted in a way that requires them to flee and that they have to be offered a place where they can get to live, come in as refugees. Will the government consider whether, at the top of what we do in refugee policy, it can be relevant to open up a few more refugees among those who have been persecuted, with different life views, for example. in Syria, Iraq and otherwise in the Middle East, where we know that there is a very serious situation for many of the life-sensory minorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2042	Thank you to everyone who has taken part in the debate, or as the representative Sylvi Graham said, raised the torch, and that there is consensus for Norway to play an active role, and preferably an even more active role, in the future. Let me also take the opportunity to praise the parliamentary network that Mr Q. Raja, the representative, has taken an initiative with others. Then there is the hope that parliamentarians from those countries that need it the most, and that this will enable us to develop that network further. The representative Nybakk spoke about India, and after the state elections there, we can well assume that the situation for both Muslim minorities and Christian minorities is not getting any easier. There has been an outbreak of discrimination. I think several of us had a meeting with representatives of these groups a short time ago that documented this. Formal rights exist in many countries, but it is therefore a fact that even formal rights are lacking in many countries. Real rights are lacking in even more countries. The representative of Solhell raised the question of those who are refugees because of their faith and who are particularly vulnerable minorities. I think that's timely. The question is when, for example: withdraw quota refugees, if this is something that can be specifically lifted. I support 100 pst. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has announced that this will be an important topic in the forthcoming development message, and I hope that we can continue the good spirit of the Community that has been in this debate, by also making an overall contribution from the United Kingdom to raising this issue further. Finally, it might be nice to remember what Grundtvig has said. Now I don't think he's known around the world, but at least he's said very wisely, "Forcing faith is the speech of fools, freedom follows the spirit of truth." [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2057	I thank you for a good discussion. I think we all may have made a reflection during the debate that it is sad to think that in the 21st century you will experience that it is becoming more difficult for religious and ethnic minorities than it was a few decades ago. Take the situation that we are experiencing today in Mosul: in Mosul, church bells have probably been ringing for 1,500 years, and they stopped at the entrance of ISIL. See what Christians, and also Shiaminorits, experience in Pakistan, what Sunnier experiences in Iran, see what different minorities experience in Iraq, see what minorities also experience in Syria, see what Coptic Christians experience in Egypt – and also see the lack of freedom of belief that exists in many parts of the world. As I also said in the debate on the foreign policy statement, we have also seen progress in these issues over decades after decades, but suddenly we have enough to try to hold back on backwards, and in some places we actually feel that it is backwards. The representative of Raja included: the situation in Myanmar and the situation of the rohingya, which is totally unacceptable. We have a strategic discussion in the Storting around how to use political influence – are we going to use the UN, the Human Rights Council, development policy? How are we going to be able to stand up and understand, in dialogue with these countries, that these are not Western values, that these are universal rights, that is, any human right to believe what you think is right? That this should now be challenged, and that one also sees that religion is again being used more as a political tool to strengthen its own position in its own country, is actually quite depressing. But we can't let it break us. We just have to stand up for these values and these principles. We will have the opportunity to continue this discussion also in connection with the treatment of, among others. the development message.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2068	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2084	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on the matter – and not least the proposers for raising an important issue. It is gratifying that there is such a great commitment to ensuring the framework conditions for animals and the quality of life for their daily well-being and well-being. I am therefore pleased that a Joint Committee recognises the importance of having good and satisfactory animal welfare in this country. For animals to feel safe and to promote and maintain good health, it is essential that they meet the natural needs of the animals. Activity, stimulation and well-being are key instruments in this regard, and it is therefore important that we, as politicians, do what we can to facilitate this, including: through a good law. However, it is important to stress the keeper’s responsibility to meet these visions. If the animals show a behavior that testifies to stress or dissatisfaction, it is important that those responsible for the day-to-day activities capture it and take the necessary steps in time. There are clear laws and rules on adequate animal welfare and the Committee's overall call is for them to be followed. In this context, I agree with the proposers that the absence of sufficient knowledge may be a factor that threatens animal welfare in some cases. Those who acquire animals or keep animals in connection with business activities have overall responsibility for engaging in adequate knowledge of the welfare of animals in line with the laws and regulations in force. I think these are some of the most important steps to raise animal welfare, and I am therefore pleased that the Food Agency is working on this. That body is, moreover, an important body for the detection of the non-compliance with the Animal Welfare Regulations and it is pleased that the Food Safety Authority has extensive powers to supervise all animal husbandry. As stated in the case, it is requested that a person review regulations for the keeping of animals, so that they are up-to-date under the Animal Welfare Act. This has a good intention, but I would like to remind the proposer that a number of updates have been made to the regulations since the adoption of the Animal Welfare Act. As the reply letter from the Minister of Agriculture and Food states, a new regulation on the husbandry of fur animals was laid down in 2011. It also applied to the holding of bovine animals. Improvements have also been made in animal welfare and the introduction of a separate chicken slaughter programme both in 2013 and 2014. In addition, a proposal for a programme for turkeys is now under way. It is also stated that the Food Safety Authority has been working on reviewing and clarifying various animal husbandry regulations. These are very good signals, and therefore I am sure this is taken very seriously. It would also be natural for the Committee that animal welfare should become a topic during the discussion of the agricultural communication. Finally, I would like to assure you that animal welfare and its consequences are an important priority on the agenda for the Progress Party and this government. For example, for the first time an animal police force has ever been established, and this scheme was extended in the autumn to include both the Southern and the Rogaland teams. This, in addition to good cooperation with the Food Authority, will contribute to raising animal welfare in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2101	Animal welfare is a central and important issue of value. That is why it is good that the matter is taken up and discussed, so we would like to thank the proposer for taking it up. It is true that this can be discussed and dealt with also in the context of the agricultural notification, it is natural, but it is therefore a maritime responsibility to have animal welfare and animal welfare at a high level. It is an ethical issue that can be well tolerated to be discussed a little independently of other agricultural policies. SV is pleased that we have launched an animal police force. Søl believes that we had used to have animal health surveillance, not everything in the Food Safety Authority, but to have a separate animal health surveillance in addition, because the supervisory authority dealing with animal protection is very important. One of the reasons I took the word was a suggestion from SV in the setting. I want to take it up. It is about reviewing and updating all animal husbandry regulations so that they are updated under the Animal Welfare Act. It is quite right that the government has sent a letter of reply to the committee, pointing out that some of these matters have gone through, and that it is believed that there is a whole in it. But we believe that we should go through this as a whole in order to be absolutely sure that we have updated it, and that it is in line with the demands of the Animal Welfare Act, which are, of course, high and good, and to which I believe that there is general agreement – that there is no disagreement about it. Some of the examples that we want to mention especially in this context are the regulation on the keeping of chickens and turkeys. There are productions where there are examples of feeding such that chickens grow very rapidly with a high stocking density — whether this is contrary to animal welfare rules if you look at this explicitly. We think it's necessary, because there's a lot of demands now that you put on what you call efficiency, and there's a lot of price competition on these important food products. But it must not conflict with animal welfare, for it must be kept. Regardless of whether the government wants – as they say – more cost-effective agriculture, it should be within the framework of the Animal Welfare Act, on which we must be absolutely safe. Therefore, we ask for this review and are a little surprised that the Storting is not involved, so that we can make sure that this match is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2112	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2117	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a thorough and thorough review of the matter. If the animal welfare law had been complied with, animal welfare in Norway would be high, because the law is good and, as other laws, it should be followed. The Animal Welfare Act says, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of ‘Animals have intrinsic value regardless of their human benefit.’ «Animals shall only be kept if they can adapt to the team in an animal welfare manner.» «Animal keepers shall ensure that animals are kept in an environment that provides good welfare based on species-typical and individual needs, including the possibility of stimulating activities, movement, rest and other natural behaviour.» «Animal keepers shall ensure that animals are properly supervised and cared for, including ensuring that: (b) animals are protected against injury, disease, parasites and other hazards.»; However, practices in several important parts of Norwegian animal husbandry do not correspond to the intention and letter of the law. It must mean either that the law does not follow the law properly, or that the administration looks through with practice, or both. That is why the Green Party has proposed that the government should update the regulations under the Animal Welfare Act and that regulations should be drawn up where they are lacking. The rapporteur and the Minister of Agriculture have then pointed out that there have been changes to the regulations, and that our proposal is unexplained at this point. However, it does not change the fact that established animal welfare practices are obviously not carried out in line with the letter of the law in several major sectors. Firstly, the sovereign maximum number of animal individuals in Norwegian food production is farmed fish. Breeding fish are, of course, covered by the Animal Welfare Act. In addition, the Aquaculture Code adopts inter alia: provided that installations and production units present a minimum risk of injury and unnecessary stresses. But in 2016 53 million salmon died in the mermaids, and that was an increase of 7 million from 2015 – 53 million salmon people died, a sharp increase. One of the reasons is the increasing use of tougher detoxification methods, as common methods lose effect. This is because Norwegian salmon farming is still in open contact with an environment with a natural parasite, salmonnus. This mode of operation is the ultimate nirvana of a parasite, and it is simply a natural law that it will lead to large and almost eternal parasite problems until the fish are separated from the parasites of enclosed facilities. As long as this – with the government’s blessing – does not happen, Norwegian salmon farming can develop against increasing animal welfare problems, contrary to the law, and that should not be allowed by the regulatory body and the authorities. Both inside and outside the current regulation, uneasy pig gilts are still fixed, i.e. tightened, so that they cannot move when the pigs are suckling. Recently, 51 sows were found fixed in Telemark, but it was obviously not considered a breach of regulations and had no consequences. So poultry: the Brotherhood of poultry in Norway sees little daylight. Fast-growing chickens in large factory halls are designed to grow healthy by themselves. Many laying hens live in cages where they can barely move. The rules on the holding of chickens and turkeys are set at 850 cm2 per caged animal. It's a little bit. In loose operation, nine laying hens divide into 1 m 2. The routine killing of chickens reared for laying and the destruction of laying hens when the laying frequency drops has very little to do with the self-esteem principle. Then there is fur farming, which the Progress Party and the Right continue to support. It is still known to be based on shutting predators with very complex requirements for activity and living conditions inside small cages throughout their lives, and all trade unions agree that the requirements of the Animal Welfare Act are contrary. A gradual development is taking place in the right direction in Norwegian animal welfare, as the rapporteur's observations also underlined, thanks to the initiatives of professional communities, animal protection organisations, other parties and our own initiatives. We share, among other things: The Committee was pleased that the government has extended the animal police system to include South Trondelag and Rogaland, and of course we expect the scheme to be nationalised. We take note that this time the majority of the committee does not follow up our proposal to take on board the fact that the animal welfare law is still being extensively broken. There is still a need for a review of the regulatory system to bring the entire regulatory system and practice into line with the law. We're going to support SV's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2157	Animal welfare in Norwegian livestock production and in most private homes is consistently good. In Norway, we have a lot to be proud of when it comes to how Norwegian farmers have chosen to manage their entire animal husbandry – not only in terms of how animal husbandry is actually developed in the individual production unit, but also through the fact that Norwegian farmers over time have invested, selected and bred on animals that are more adapted to the production methods that we have, and which are based more on their characteristics, as a contribution to Norwegian agriculture today has a higher level of animal welfare than in many other countries around us. Therefore, I am pleased that the Storting in this setting largely agrees with the assessments I have expressed by letter to the Committee. I am also pleased that the description given by the Environmental Party Dei Groe by Norwegian Animal Welfare does not have the approval of the Stortinget. For it is not reasonable to produce Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian livestock producers – or to the extent that people who have private livestock – in a way that indicates a systematic undermining of animal welfare laws. There's no reason to claim it. Throughout, we have a good animal welfare law, and I agree with the representatives who have spoken before me. At the same time, we have regular updates of the regulations, we have ongoing assessments of whether there is a need for new updates, and we have a food surveillance that follows with supervision and sanctions in the cases that they see it as necessary. We'll have an accident. We have a case-by-case where people open up to treat their animals in a completely unacceptable way. Then we have a well-functioning system to intervene, which is supposed to give reactions, and which, in the utmost sense, takes the opportunity from people to have domestic animals. This makes me happy with this setting. The government will continue to comply with animal welfare laws, we will continue to update both regulations and other legislation if we believe it is appropriate. The representatives of the SV and the Greens can feel absolutely safe about this. As we have shown that we have done the years we have behind us, we will continue to develop that legislation. But it's untimely to produce Norwegian food production in a way that indicates that we have ongoing violations of good animal welfare in Norway. Few other countries can measure up to the level we manage to have in normal food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2166	I take the floor for a brief explanation of vote. But first of all, I would like to say that it is a good initiative by the Greens, as many other initiatives that have come from them when it comes to animal welfare during this period. It is important for the Storting and important for the debate on animal welfare. What is proposed here, both in the proposed document 8 and in the proposal that SV has taken up, is that a requesting government should review the regulations to ensure that they are in line with the law. It could probably have been admitted by the Storting, but now the government, both in the form of letters and now from the pulpit, has said that the government's view is that the regulation is in line with the law. So if such a decision by the Storting wanted to make any difference from or to, I allowed myself to doubt. One would probably get the same answer. I think that when one is going to discuss animal welfare, one should rather go into the individual areas and see where one should make improvements. I know that Hansson's representative is busy, and that's why we have this together, for example. voted in favour of a managed closure of Norwegian fur farming. We have agreed that one should make changes to the type of breed that is allowed in Norwegian chicken production. And this should take areas by region to see how one can make animal welfare the best possible in particular food production. So I think that's what the debate should follow in the future, and there's no doubt that there's a lot that's been settled. I share the view of the Minister of Agriculture that there is a lot of good animal welfare in Norwegian agriculture, but I also believe that there is a range of areas where we have not come far enough. I have already mentioned two examples, and I hope that one in the work on the agricultural communication, which the Committee has on its table right now, can take some further steps to ensure that one gets even better animal welfare within Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2177	The President will state that there is only one proposal, and that is the proposal from SV, made by the representative Karin Andersen. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2197	Misuse of medicine is the main single cause of injury to patients in Norway. Nevertheless, for many years we have been trained for few pharmacists, which is the health profession with the broadest competence in the field of medicines. 70 pst. at least one prescribed medicinal product was supplied by the Norwegian population in 2015. In hospitals, pharmacists, in cooperation with doctors and nurses, are involved in contributing to personal care and effective treatment. The potential for the pharmacists is indisputable, as that is 50–80 pst. of all medicinal product-related problems can be prevented. For very many years we have had a shortage of pharmacists in Norway, despite an increasing need for just pharmaceutical competence. The number of pharmacies has increased from 397 in 2001 to a total of 868 this year. There is an increased demand for clinical pharmacy both in hospitals and in community health services. The same is true of research, development and administration. There is therefore a need to look at educational capacity and, not least, its content, so that it reflects more closely the future use of pharmaceutical competence, including innovative innovation. Recruitment status is alarming. In February of this year, 12 pharmacists and 77 pharmacists stood unoccupied, despite the fact that approx. 80 pst. Of all newly educated pharmacists in Norway, pharmacies are just beginning. There are also large geographical differences. In 2016, about 200 pharmacists were graduated in Norway. A total of 406 persons were granted an authorisation as a pharmacist last year. This means that only a little over half had their education from Norway, and that has been the case for many years. The apothecary states that in 2016 they recruited approx. 75 pharmacists directly from other EEA countries, mainly from Serbia and Portugal. Experience with these recruitments is largely good, although there may be some language challenges. However, it is ethically problematic for Norway to bottle countries with significantly lower living standards and GDP for highly educated health professionals. When the Stortinget dealt with the notification of medicinal products on 4 February 2016, a unanimous Health and Care Committee wrote the following: ‘The Committee believes that there will be a growing need for pharmacists in the future as a result of the development of pharmacies services, advanced medical treatment, more multidisciplinary and decentralised work in the healthcare sector and the development of the pharmaceutical industry. Due to persistent lack of pharmaceuticals in Norway, a significant proportion of pharmacists from other countries are recruited. The Committee considers that the need for pharmacists needs to be assessed in the light of the ambitions of the medicinal product notification and asks the government to assess this in the context of the award of new study places.» Despite this clear comment, neither several places of study nor full funding of existing posts were created in the 2017 State budget. In order to ensure pharmaceutical competence throughout the country, it is important to maintain a geographically dispersed educational provision in pharmacy, as we have today. Oslo has 68 study places and can increase to 100 in a short time, Tromsø has 35, Trondheim has 20 and Bergen 24, which can be increased to 35–44 study places with full funding. In order to address many years of pharmaceutical shortages in the West, the University of Bergen set up an innovative master's degree in pharmacy in 2002 with a cross-disciplinary model. The study is very popular, with high admission requirements, and in 2016 there were no other courses that had more applicants per study place, with the result that the University of Bergen increased from 24 to 44 places. But the study in Bergen is not fully funded and receives only 40 pst. compared to Oslo and Tromsø. Such discrimination over 15 years of age is particularly felt on the basis of the principle of equivalent training provision, but also in the light of the high need for new pharmacists. The reason has been that the initiative was taken locally, and not as a mission from the Oslo authorities. There is a strong increase in the need for clinical pharmacies especially in hospitals. Health Mid-Norway, for example, has The eartag 20 million. kr every year for the period 2015-2019 to ensure a clinical pharmaceutical professional environment in the region. As of January 2016, Health Mid-Norway has 31 years' work with clinical pharmacists working in hospitals in the region. An increase in municipalities is also expected as a result of increased requirements for review of medicinal products. Developments in health and welfare technologies will also provide many interesting opportunities for pharmacists, such as: advice and organisation of pharmaceutical information in web-based applications. The training in pharmaceuticals provides a multidisciplinary competence to make pharmaceuticals suitable for the development, production and testing of medicinal products. In 2008, the Research Council developed an advisory plan for actions to help develop and strengthen pharmaceutical research in Norway. A separate research school was established in pharmacy at the University of Oslo, and several educational institutions focus on research cooperation with hospitals and businesses. The competence of pharmacists can also be exploited in other industries, such as fish farming. An example of this is three master students in Bergen who are now involved in the development of the use of environmentally friendly lime to combat salmonnus. It is a strong wish that Norwegian patients should be able to take part in medical innovations more quickly. A lot has happened in recent years. In 2015, there were 575 employees in the pharmaceutical industry working on research and development, an increase of 39 pst. from 2013. Today, the pharmaceutical industry is largely financing the development of new medicines, but in addition, there is an increased focus on more publicly funded research. Research and pharmaceutical development opens up new jobs for pharmacists. However, it assumes that public funding is provided for both to strengthen the content of education, to facilitate practical research cooperation, to develop appropriate infrastructure and to facilitate more international cooperation. Rapid development calls for a more dynamic education system that is more able to follow the policy adopted. In 2015-2016, the National Board of Occupational Education and Research has agreed on common learning outcomes descriptions for final competence for both bachelor and masters in pharmacy that meet the authorisation requirements and EU requirements. This contributes to increased cooperation between educational establishments and facilitates international cooperation. Within the formal framework, individual study sites should be able to specialise in, for example: production of medicinal products or clinical pharmacy. It will give students greater choice and strengthen the overall national pharmaceutical environment. The need for pharmacists is high and will increase as a result of the development of pharmacies, more advanced medical treatment, the inter-operational reform and more multidisciplinary and decentralised work in the healthcare sector. Pharmacists have the broadest competence of society in the field of medicinal products and can contribute to the reduction of mis-medication and thus to the reduction of patient injuries. The pharmaceutical study is a combination of chemical, biological, medical and specialised pharmaceutical subjects. The competent students and the solid multidisciplinary education provide an ideal basis for research and opportunities for innovative innovation of new medicines, for the benefit of patients and for increased value creation. The question to the Council of State is: What concrete plans do the Council of State have to increase the number of study places in pharmacy, ensure the relevant content of education and strengthen pharmaceutical research in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2246	I have been a major consumer of what the pharmacy has to offer at least since Thursday, so this is a good hour interpellation. Solid education and research in the health and social field are essential to provide the population with good health and care services. The Government assesses the need for study places in the annual budgets and has increased the capacity to record, inter alia. medical, psychological and nursing training. I have also been in contact with the Minister of Health and Care for information on the needs of pharmaceutical services. Pharmaceutical competence is being sought in increasingly new areas of municipal and specialist health services. In Report. St. 11 for 2015–2016, National Health and Hospital Plan 2016–2019, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has assessed that the need for pharmacists will increase as a consequence of the technological and professional development of specialist health services. In Report. St. 28 for 2014-2015, The Medical Product Notification, Proper Use – Better Health, further points out to the Ministry of Health and Health that several pharmacists may be needed in municipalities to contribute to the proper use of medicines. The trend is towards more advanced patient treatment in municipal health and care, which is a desirable development. This requires increased competence in the field of medicinal products. Universities with pharmacovigilance have steadily increased their capacity over the last 15 years. Figures from the Higher Education Statistics Database, DBH, show that the recording has increased from less than 100 at the turn of the millennium to slightly more than 200 in 2016. Among other things, NTNU has established a new master's degree in pharmacy. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has not received any input from the health and care services that suggest that there is a need to train more pharmacists today. The Ministry of Knowledge has also not received any input from universities that they want to give priority to several study places in pharmacy now. However, the government is following the needs of services in both pharmacy and other health and social education. I am committed to strengthening the quality and relevance of health and social education. As a follow-up to the Report. St. 13 for 2011–2012, Education for Welfare, Interaction in practice, I have sent to the hearing a new system for determining learning outcomes for these educations. The aim of a new management system is to increase the influence of education itself, the services and the sectoral authorities to which it is trained on the development of the professional content of education. We have also sent a consultation proposal for a regulation on the common overall framework for all 19 health and social education and training courses, including pharmacy. The proposal was sent to the hearing on 20 January 2017. The hearing period shall be 21 April 2017. The new governance system removes the current framework for eight health and social education and training programmes and replaces them with an overall common framework for all 19 basic health and social education programmes. The new system has been developed by the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. The new system provides for three-level governance: Level 1: Management of education through framework plans based on the Law on Higher Education is continued. Level 2: A common rule is laid down for the framework plan for all basic training. The framework plan sets common objectives and common learning outcomes at an overall level for all 19 courses. The regulation will be considerably less detailed than the current framework plans, and it will cover only matters relating to all health and social education and training. Level 3: Guidelines for individual courses shall describe the purpose of the training and expected final competence for final candidates. Separate programme groups shall be set up, responsible for the development and subsequent revision of the guidelines for individual education and training. Programme groups shall be composed of representatives of services, education and students. We're going to make good arenas for close cooperation between those who train, and those who are responsible for the services. One programme group shall be established per education. The Programme Groups must have in-depth knowledge of the needs, services, individual training and up-to-date research in the field or fields of education. In the field of research, universities and universities have a responsibility to have good professional environments, to see the needs of society and to conduct high-quality research. At the same time, the Ministry of Health and Health has sectoral responsibility for health research, but I and the Minister of Health and Care cooperate well on this. This government has invested heavily in health research. In the long-term plan for research and higher education, better and more efficient welfare, health and care services are a high priority area. In particular, the planned life sciences, pharmacy and chemistry building at the University of Oslo will be a major investment in education and research in the area of the representative of Grung here. The construction project at Ås at Norway's environmental and life sciences universities will also be an important contribution, and these strategic investments in infrastructure will be followed by research funds through the Norwegian Research Council. The Government aims to strengthen health research and to facilitate the conduct of clinical studies in Norway. It is the manufacturer of a medicinal product or the clinical environments that initiates such studies. In order to obtain more in-house studies to Norway, the government facilitates cooperation between industry, the university and higher education sectors and health services through the follow-up to the Health Care strategy21. We have strengthened the instruments aimed at business in the Norwegian Research Council. We have also established support and access to Norwegian and European clinical study infrastructure through NorCRIN, Norwegian Clinical Research Infrastructures Network. In order to facilitate studies initiated by the clinical disciplines, the Ministry of Health and Health provides regional health enterprises with a earmarked grant for research. From 2016, a programme for national multi-centre clinical studies has also been established in the regional health establishments. The programme called clinical treatment research in specialist healthcare is a follow-up to the Report. St. 28 for 2014–2015, Medication of Medicinal Products, Proper use — better health. I mean everything there is to be done with education and research in pharmacy. Now that we have the new management system for health education and training, I think the quality and relevance of pharmacovigilance training will be further improved. However, the Government will consider any need for more study places in the annual budgetary rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2284	First of all, I would like to say to the Council of State that he is at least a member of the majority of the population when it comes to the use of medicines and pharmaceuticals. I feel that the situation description of the challenges and opportunities in pharmacy is exactly the same as the one I took into account in the interpellation. But then there's further work, considering that there's no recording sent. In the interpellation, I repeated the whole comment of the Health Committee on a very clear notification of medicinal products, with high ambitions on behalf of both research and the establishment of a health industry, where there is a clear link between pharmaceutical competence and opportunities for research in the future. In addition, I am well aware that for many years, the University of Bergen has submitted an application for full funding of its educational sites in pharmacy. I guess that's what I'm sent in. Otherwise, there is a repetition every time we discuss national health and hospital plans or other issues, that there is a lack of coherence between what we adopt in this room in terms of ambitions in health and educational capacity and partial content. Then I understand that a steering group should be set up that might improve it. I hope so, because that's what it takes. But then it's the research itself. It's the students who are the future. I've visited the students at the University of Bergen. If one is to be able to be motivated and see the possibilities of clinical pharmacy, the development of medicinal products, it is appropriate to have facilities that allow some of it to be practised during the training course. At least you don't have 40 pst. funding, as it is in Bergen. At the same time, they find adhoc solutions. So do we really want to bet and have the ambitions that are the basis of the drug notification, and with the opportunities that Norway has? With the radical growth we have seen recently, we should look at both the educational capacity, the content and not least a research infrastructure adapted to the different educational and health prostheses, where pharmacy in particular has a great advantage in terms of a development that we see as a major need and for which the Stortinget has adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2297	As mentioned in the main article, I believe that with regard to the content, quality and relevance of health and social education, including pharmacy, we are now making a promise. As far as research infrastructure is concerned, I have a more general point, namely that the government has invested heavily in research infrastructure. Now I don't know if it has benefited the University of Bergen and the pharmaceutical education there, but it was part of the government's plan for stepping up the long-term plan for research and higher education. Then, in my main post, I have explained how I view the situation of pharmaceutical education in Norway and the need for more pharmaceuticals. But that's an important extra score, too. I believe that the University of Bergen took an important responsibility for society when they established their pharmaceutical education in the early 2000s, and that is a kind of responsibility that we want universities and colleges to take. Universities and colleges are not, although they may sometimes work like this, detailed by the state. Sometimes there are extra places to study, and there is probably some expectation on the part of Storting that they will be used for it, but after many years universities and colleges have a fairly good funding – it must be said – also room for priority, and priority should be given to social responsibility, within their own framework. In other words, it cannot be that we control the university and higher education sectors so that every time there is a change in the needs of the labour market, the Stortinget or the Government must enter and govern in detail what academic portfolios universities and colleges should have. That's a general, important point. Now, of course, it's the same thing that we always follow up on whether there are some types of study portfolios that should be upgraded, even for pharmacy, but of course there's an assessment in the annual budgetary processes. We always look at clear and clear – and in particular less clear and clear – comments from a majority on the Stortinget, but it is nevertheless such that the comments are also written with the understanding that the budgetary process involves some priorities. So it's never that a note implies an obligation for the government to do exactly what it says, just the year after. It is a question that the Stortinget is considering in the budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2308	My biggest contribution to the pharmaceutical shortage in Norway is that I am standing here and do not execute prescriptions at the railway station right now. As long as I've been a pharmacist, and before I did, the lack of pharmacists has been a challenge. I dare say that the lack of pharmacists was an important restriction on the development of the number of pharmacies right after the new pharmacy law came into force. Because it was the lack of professionals that did not establish a pharmacy at a faster pace. Now we have a very good pharmacy coverage in Norway. We have more than twice as many pharmacies as we had 10–15 years ago, and with very good quality. At the same time, there is a huge shortage of pharmacists, as the interpellant mentions. I'm going to think that the 90, to which it was referred, is probably an understatement and not an exaggeration. That being said, the Council of State was concerned with the interpretation of comments. If you read the medical report, there is at least no doubt that an overall increase means that we should bet on pharmacies and pharmaceuticals as an important contributor to the health care of the future. Many of the challenges facing Norwegian health care are addressed with medicinal products. It's an important input. And we know that a lot of people are misusing the drugs. The situation is that in Norway, between 1000 and 2000 people die each year because of misuse of medicinal products and that one in three is misusing them. We have a great job to do in terms of information work, and we have said that the pharmacist is an important player in this area. Of course, when it comes to managing educational capacity, universities have both the right and the duty to make their assessments, but it is clear that I would like to see us more clearly pointing out that more needs to be trained. This does not apply only to pharmacists. Also for doctors and other important health professionals, there is a high proportion of non-residents educated in Norway. And we also see that of the doctors are about half educated abroad. It's a challenge that the Minister of Education has to take on, because we're spending a lot of energy steering education in Norway to get the kind of health professionals we want. When we don't manage to train enough people ourselves, we lose control of the competence of the total amount of health professionals. Over time, if half is educated in countries other than Norway, it means that we do not have the overall competence. A doctor from one country is not always like a doctor from another country. I can confirm that also for pharmacists. I would like to thank Mr Grung for addressing this issue. We have cooperated well on this in the past. I would like to see a greater clarification about education in Bergen, and we have to make sure that we do not go down in the number of places of study, but rather up. It may be that the industry and the various educational institutions have to look at whether there are so many educational places and so many differences in the curriculum, because there is a great difference between a pharmacist educated in Namsos and a pharmacist educated in Bergen or in Oslo – without me pointing out which of them is the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2325	Thanks to the interpellant, which has produced an important interpellant. The background is the notification of medicinal products to the Health and Care Committee one or two years ago. At that time, both the government and the committee were committed to strengthening their pharmaceutical competence and to increasing the use of pharmaceutical products in health services. That common comment is referenced. Then a joint committee asked the government to assess the need for pharmacists in the light of the ambitions of the pharmaceutical notification when a new study venue was allocated. Governments have done their best to interpret a comment. I also understand that a non-budget approach is not involved in a wholesale message. Nevertheless, I react to the fact that the Council of State here today says that there is no need to increase pharmaceutical education now, and that the universities have also not made any sense that they will give priority to it. Then the Storting and government are on different sides of the track. Half of the pharmacists who get a job in Norway are found abroad. In 2016, 406 pharmacists were granted an authorisation. Half had education from Norway. How a government can say that we do not need to increase the training of pharmacists in Norway is incomprehensible. It is true, as the representative of Stensland said, that it also applies to other health education, for example. medical training. So the question is, is it okay for the government that Norway sends the bill to other countries when it comes to expanding our important health pros? In the World Health Organization’s Annual Report on Foreign Affairs and Development Policy, which was discussed by the Stortinget in 2011/2012, it was established that Norway is joining the World Health Organisation’s objective of promoting the ethically correct recruitment of health professionals. Health professionals around the world are lacking, and the least we can do as a rich country is to develop more of our health professionals. That we're going to be happy that half of our pharmaceuticals are being emigrated abroad, and that one doesn't see the need to increase pharmaceutical training now, I didn't think we should settle down. After all, it was also clear to the Health Committee when he dealt with the medical notification. So to Bergen: It should be known that Bergen has for many years asked for a safe funding of the pharmacy study. They start on their own initiative a study there. Basic funding is not yet funded. In the fall they took up 44 students because there was a very large application. There is a high score limit for entering. There is an absolute need for that study to be fully funded in line with studies in other places. I would like to ask the Council of State to answer the questions: does the government think it's okay that only half of the pharmaceuticals that are needed are out in Norway? Does the government think it's okay that the study in Bergen is not yet going to receive funding in line with the other universities in Norway? What, if any, is the professional basis for such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2338	As the Storting will see, the regulatory time is now over. However, the President will propose that we continue the meeting until the agenda has been finalised. – No one has objected to it, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2343	There are important questions that the representative Grung addresses in this interview. In higher education, many considerations need to be taken into account. The importance of universities and universities as free institutions must be high, but at the same time it is important to bear in mind that it is society that finances the institutions and that they have important and complex societal tasks. In this context, I will refer to what a Joint Education Committee stated at the Innst. 348 S for 2014-2015, on concentration for quality – structural reform in the higher education sector: ‘The Committee points out that the higher education institutions have a complex societal mission. They shall, on the one hand, contribute to professional innovation and development and promote science and breakthrough ideas. On the other hand, they will prepare and train students for a work and business life that meets the needs of society. The Committee stresses that it is when combining these and seeing them in context that the best results are obtained. In addition to the overall societal mission, some institutions have specific societal tasks based on decisions taken in the Stortinget.’ And on the other hand, ‘Universities and higher education will train the labour force society needs, but we do not have to set up the sector in such a way that it is driven towards specialisation appropriate to society as it appears today. As an SSB analysis done for the Ludvigsen committee recently showed, one in three jobs as we know them today will disappear in the next 20 years. For example, a wide range of tasks will be automated.’ I am not in doubt that many tasks will also be automated in the health sector in the future, but I am also in no doubt that there will be a great need for health professionals as pharmacists in the future. In view of the complex societal task of the UH sector, the Progress Party expects that study orientations such as pharmacy will also be given priority by the sector itself. It is also important to look at the policy in the context. The real science strategy, with its quality improvement measures throughout initial training, the introduction of clear skills requirements, the improvement of the teacher’s study and the major reform of continuing training, are all measures that will facilitate in the longer term more highly qualified students, who are able to undertake real-time vocational studies such as: pharmaceuticals. In line with the Sundvolden Declaration, the government has focused on research and higher education. I would like to refer here to the long-term research plan, which states that the government will step up the funding for research and higher education within six long-term priorities. One of the priorities is innovation in the public sector and better and more efficient welfare, health and care services. In the follow-up to the long-term plan, the government has also prioritised building projects that support the long-term priorities, including: new building for life sciences, pharmacy and chemistry at the University of Oslo. The life sciences building is planned to be completed in 2023. The life sciences building shall be designed in such a way that researchers at the University of Oslo can work more closely across established disciplines and cooperate more closely with businesses, health businesses and municipalities. This is how the University of Oslo researchers and students will become even better at exploiting skills across disciplines and seeing opportunities for innovation and value creation. This will be Norway's largest individual university building, and there will be employment for about 1 000 employees and about 1 000 employees. 1600 students and shall have premises for research and teaching in life sciences, chemistry and pharmacy. In the context of such a commitment, in the view of the Progress Party, it will be possible to establish several study places in pharmacy at the universities and colleges offering this study. We look forward to following the government's work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2370	I thank you for your input, and I note that the four largest parties are politically supporting the efforts to strengthen the provision of education in the field of pharmacy. As far as a social mission is concerned, we fully agree with the Council of State, it is great that education, research and university communities take initiatives to address new areas where there is a need for both education and research. However, when you choose to take social responsibility because there has been a shortage of pharmacists for so many years, and set up study places, well-known as healthprofessional education is more expensive than others, you ask how long you should be punished for taking this initiative in order to ensure equal treatment. 15 years is long. In addition, Norway should have the ambition that we will at least train enough in relation to the ambitions we have in the field of health, and rather encourage our own to take education abroad, while similarly asking others to come to Norway and take education here, but not exploiting poorer countries by taking responsibility for education in particular the expensive education. Health is guided by priorities, and it's a very clear prioritisation message, with priorities, regulations and criteria. Then it's a little special, when we have such clear leadership in a field, that we can't get them fulfilled because there's no interaction with the education sector – that it gets so much autonomy to choose which areas it should prioritise, in relation to what we adopt in politics here in the Chamber. But I conclude that at least here in Stortinget there is a broad, cross-political consensus on raising up the pharmacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2388	I would like to say a thousand thanks for the interpellation debate, and I would also like to add to the range of those who agree, as I said in my contribution, too, that there is going to be a greater need for pharmacists in the years to come, and that this is an area that the government is also betting on, especially in terms of development and research. Then there are two concrete questions I would like to answer, and which I partly touched on in my post. One is that we send the bill to other countries. I believe that it is a crazy description of the fact that parts of the education needs in Norway are covered in other countries. There's nothing else that's unknown, and we also see it in other areas. I am not familiar with anything particularly unethical about this practice in the field of pharmacy, but I should like to make a small reservation that I have not entered and looked at all the countries where Norwegian students study pharmacy. As far as Bergen is concerned, it is probably also true that in a number of areas, educational institutions have done what Bergen has done, that is, used their powers to set up studies. I have no objection in principle to Bergen being given – they are applying for such a special funding. There are letters from all the institutions every year asking for things outside the larger, common budget headings. I don't have anything in principle against it, but it's just a priority question every year. I'm going to assume that it's also been the answer the previous 15 years. Then I realize that you are now impatient, but there have also been other governments in the previous 15 years, so you can't be completely unaware of that problem and you can't be that answer when you've been sitting on the Stortinget for many years. But I appreciate, as I said, that it's taken up, and it's a good reminder and also a fine signal to the university and higher education sectors about the importance of their being forward-looking. And again – an important spring in the hat of the University of Bergen, which was forward-looking and took responsibility at the beginning of the 2000s.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2397	That is when the debate is on case No. Eight is over. Case No. 9–12 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2447	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 9-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2530	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement at the Stortinget meeting on 7 March 2017 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2540	In the course of the debate, a proposal has been made. That is proposal No. 1, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review and update animal husbandry regulations so that they are up-to-date under the Animal Welfare Act.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2571	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2580	Case No. 9 to 12 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative acts 58 to 61. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-13.ana.ud408e2635	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
