ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e27	The representatives of Abid Q. Raja and Kjersti Toppe, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Hedmark County: Per Martin Sandtrøen For Hordaland County: Laila Reiertsen For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Anders Riise For Oslo: Astrid Noklebye Heiberg and Solveig Skauvoll Foss For Eastfold County: Monica Carmen Gåsvatn The representative, Heidi Greni, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e65	On behalf of the representatives of Willfred Nordlund, Ole André Myhrvold and myself, I would like to propose the use of an electric motor on water below 2 km 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e73	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e89	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and the Councils of State Solvency Horne and Sylvi Listhaug will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, which are from the representative Anette Trettebergstuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e96	My question goes to the State Council Solvency Horne. For the Workers' Party, equality is not something of itself. On the contrary, one has to work for politics every day to get to, through, for example. increased dad rate, kindergarten development, gender equality centres, anti-discrimination legislation and prevention of sexual harassment. The Party considers that the relationship between sex should ‘adapt naturally in working life, leisure and private life, without involvement of public bodies’. It says it's reading in the principal program. That view clearly characterizes the government's policy, when we see that the government has systematically cut off the gender policy that has made Norway one of the world's most equal countries, and when we see that it is also cut in the government budget this year, for the fourth consecutive year, to those who are engaged in gender equality work out there. In the last few weeks, the #metoo campaign has brought about the extent of sexual harassment, and it is obvious to most that it works poorly that the relationship between sex should adapt naturally, as the Progress Party's principle programme believes. Does the Council of State believe that equality policy has no significance for the extent of sexual harassment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e107	I fully agree with the representative that equality does not come of itself. That's why I'm very pleased that this government has had an active gender equality policy in these four years, and it's very clear in the government's platform that we're going to work to increase equality. What is being taken up here is not something that I know about either. Norway is now in second place, just turned off Iceland, in terms of the ranking of equality countries. There have never been fewer part-time workers, there have been 22,000 more women leaders under this government – to mention something – and there is a marked increase in both female directors and executive directors in the public sector. So equality policy works. What I'm very pleased about is that this government has recognised what are our major gender equality challenges today. That's why we put forward a big message about gender equality, where we focused on violence against women, which is one of the greatest gender equality challenges we have. We have a sex-shared labour market, which we see is because girls and boys choose traditionally. Once again, the birth rate is pushed forward: the gender equality in Norway does not stand and falls on four weeks of paper, but on the daily work we do. I am very pleased that during this period we have also developed a strengthened discrimination topic. We have set up a new equality and discrimination law, which should in fact strengthen the position of women. Now, for the first time, with the new denominator, it's going to be the opportunity to get uprooted if you get discriminated against. I am very pleased that the #metoo campaign has now really put sexual harassment on the agenda. Sexual harassment is unacceptable. All employers have an obligation to work actively to prevent sexual harassment, and that is something I will also discuss with the social partners at the meeting next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e122	This response from the Council of State is recognized from previous debates in recent years. The emphasis is placed on the provision of a gender equality message focusing on some problem areas. The problem with just focusing on some problem areas and not doing anything is that nothing happens. It's very nice – and it should just be lacking – that both the Council of State and the Prime Minister go out and condemn the terrible stories we've heard during the #metoo campaign. It should also be lacking that you do not say that sexual harassment is unacceptable. But we politicians have a responsibility to do something, and the government can do something if they think this is important. The majority is responsible for making laws, the government can grant money if you really think you want to do something against sexual harassment. On the contrary, we see that this government is cutting off legal aid measures, crisis centres, equality centres and LDO, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. Does the Council of State think it is wise to cut systematically in the budgets of all those who work every day to prevent sexual harassment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e129	In its draft budget, the government had cut the appropriations for the equality centres by 2 million. kr. The 2 million. kr was used for a campaign against hateful expressions, for the work we are doing on the strategy against hateful expressions, and for a work in the LHBTI field. I agree that there was a cut in the legal aid measures, and I am pleased that the majority in Stortinget has now put it back in. But to say that we cut off the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman – The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman will be given a new task. They shall become a proper representative with a driving role and shall – in line with the Children’s Ombudsman – be a janitor out there. We move money from the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman to the Equality and Discrimination Department – when the name is given new tasks, the money must also follow. As far as sexual harassment is concerned, we are now investigating a low-threshold offer. However, it is important to stress that it is the responsibility of employers to work against sexual harassment. This is very clearly expressed in both the Equality Act and the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e138	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Lene Wagslid, who for example has progressed and is ready. The President encourages everyone else to do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e143	Yesterday we read that 65 pst. of women aged 25 to 39 years had experienced sexual harassment. Nevertheless, almost none of these cases come to the courts. It is then easy to say to these women that they should go to trial, but we know that those who take the cases before the courts must be charged with a long trial – it may take months, it may take years – in addition to the fact that there is a great financial risk in person. This is why a challenge I think we have to do something with right now. I think we need to move on to the decision that the Council of State referred to instead, where we need to see whether equality and discrimination issues can be given authority to deal with issues of sexual harassment. So my question is, when will the Council of State strengthen the legal certainty of these women through e.g. to give equality and discrimination-based opportunities to deal with these issues? Or the Council of State insists that these women solve these matters best on their own, for example. by giving a earache?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e150	As I was about to say, we are now working on a low-threshold offer. I would like to remind you that sexual harassment is difficult, and that there was a great debate also during the Stoltenberg II government. They also chose not to include this under the gender equality and discrimination heading when it was dealt with in 2013. It is important that we now have this campaign, and that we make employers aware of the obligation they have to work actively against sexual harassment. It's very clear in the law, and I'm glad we've got this debate with this campaign. We're going to do what we can to tell you about the law that's there and to do a low-threshold offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e157	Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e162	As the Labour Party points out, thousands of women have used the topic nugget #metoo on social media. I even refused at the beginning of my fear of what comments I was going to get, something I wasn't alone about, because when the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman yesterday presented a very recent study on hateful statements on Facebook and the consequences they have for the social debate, it showed that 53 pst. by Norwegian Facebook users say that they refrain from participating in debates on Facebook because of the negative notes and comments that are flourishing. Over 60 pst. Of them, women. Women are also among the three groups that are most harassed. The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman believes it is a democratic problem that almost half of us do not participate in the online social debate. We in the Centre Party are concerned that there are especially men who get to participate in these debates, for women will not be harassed. What will the Council of State do to ensure that women too can feel a sense of security and participate in social debates on social media without being harassed and subjected to hateful expressions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e172	Freedom of expression is strong in Norway, but we now see that many people are being hottened when they express themselves, and that is a loss for democracy. There are important voices — especially young voices — that are silent and that do not dare to express themselves when they are exposed to so much heat. That is why I – as much as the representative Sem-Jacobsen – am concerned that there is a need to work with hateful comments and hotness, and I am pleased that this government, like the first, has put forward a strategy against hateful statements. A few days ago, we also launched a website called hatytringer.no, where both parents and teachers will be given information and guidance on how to deal with hateful statements and where to report this. We've also had a youth campaign, because it's important to address this with how to talk to people, also in kindergartens and at school. That's why I'm very happy that the youth campaign we started was very successful. It is part of the work done by the government to counter hateful statements. But we all have a responsibility for how we express ourselves, and because the way we express ourselves, doesn't make important voices silent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e179	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e184	In today's class struggle, we can read about Birgitte. She was subjected to sexual harassment at her place of work and has for 20 years tried to get her case dealt with. However, Birgitte has repeatedly been rejected because none of the bodies she has taken this case to have a mandate to deal with it, and Birgitte does not have the resources to bring the case to court. At the same time, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman is now being reorganised, with subsequent cutbacks, without having been fixed or how to establish low-threshold enforcement against sexual harassment. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Is the Council satisfied with the offer made by women who are subjected to sexual harassment, sheep? And if not, what measures has the government prioritised in addition to merely investigating this, while the reorganisation is already taking place?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e191	Sexual harassment is unacceptable, and it is illegal. That's why it's important, as I've been involved, for employers to work actively to combat sexual harassment. It's the courts that today enforce matters of sexual harassment, and we know that there are very few cases up in the courts. The background for this is that issues of sexual harassment often involve greater burden of proof than other issues. When SV put in government and had my position, they also came to the conclusion that they did not want sexual harassment to be treated by the Equality and Discrimination Department. The Stortinget has now decided that we should investigate a low-threshold offer. It's a work that we're doing, and that we're going to come back to Stortinget with later.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e198	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e203	What has emerged over the past few weeks is alarming. A number of women, from youth to older people, in all walks of life, have stood up and told how they have been deprived of, felt, suspected, sexually harassed — this is what should be their safe jobs. No groups seem to have been spared here. In all types of jobs there have been cases that are serious and morbid. We can do a lot with words, tell what's acceptable behavior and not. We can do a lot by going ahead with a good example ourselves. Some have also settled with their own public, as the DN commentator has ventured. We politicians must also watch. The State holds the key to employing leaders in state positions and agencies, even wherever the state has power through general meetings. How will the government and the Council of State specifically ensure that the State is given even more women leaders in all the roles that the State has the opportunity to influence employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e212	We see that we have too few female leaders, and especially in the private sector. I am very pleased that the government has worked actively to get more women leaders and also more women into the government under this government. That's what the Prime Minister has been a proponent of. I'm also glad that we've put in place 22,000 more female leaders in these years. There is something we should be proud of, but the work is not finished. It is important that we now also work to look at what makes women not applying for leadership positions. I think it's about starting early, in education, getting girls to take higher education, choosing untraditional professions. We've been there and we've been supporting girls and technology, which is going to get more girls into the technology disciplines. We have to start there so that girls too can get senior positions. That's something we're going to work on now, including with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e217	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e222	The extent of the recent weeks' roll-up of experience in sexual harassment has affected most of us, including politicians. The need to put in place concrete measures is quite obvious. At the same time, we can't just take any action and think that we're done with it. There is also a need for real monitoring and knowledge acquisition that can make policy developments and action in the field effective and effective. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: has the Council of State considered how she will better understand the scope, impact field and content of the problem of sexual harassment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e231	I am very pleased that the theme of sexual harassment has been put on the agenda during the #metoo campaign. I think the great extent has surprised many of us. When we know that sexual harassment is illegal, unacceptable, that all employers have an obligation to work actively against sexual harassment, and we still see such stories, we have a job to do. The role of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman is an important driving force, and they have also made several proposals for further follow-up. There's something we're going to take with us when we're going to figure out a low-threshold offer for sexual harassment issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e238	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e244	If anyone had claimed when Anders Lange’s Party – today’s Progress Party – was founded, which was the party for lower taxes and taxes, that the day the Progress Party gained power, the fees in Norway would increase violently in the first four-year period. There, money was to be collected. So you regained power, and in their first budget – who was it that would finance different initiatives? Well, it was Norwegian consumers, now Norwegian consumers would be taken. Of course, when the Advance Party has power, the chocolate and sugar levy should be increased, not by 4 pst., not by 8 pst., but by 83 pst. from one day to another. Had anyone claimed that it was what the Advance Party would use its power for, they would have been called black painters and heard that they did not know what they were talking about, for of course the Advance Party would not. But that wasn't enough with 83 pst. on a fee of chocolate and sugar. In addition, it was thought that no alcoholic beverages are too cheap, so we have to increase the fees by 40 pst. And it must be completely incomprehensible to a Consumer Minister from the Advance Party that Vitamin bears should get zero in fee increases. [[the representative shows a Chocolate Therapy biscuits]] What is the logic? Why does the Progress Party want to use its power to weaken the Norwegian food industry and Norwegian goods trade and penalise Norwegian consumers? It'll be exciting to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e253	The President would like to point out that props are not something we would like to use in the questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e258	I thank you for the question. As Minister of Consumer Affairs, I am concerned that consumers can make good choices about food they buy. Then there has been a budgetary settlement where the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party have agreed to increase sugar levies. We've seen that a result of this could be that it affects the industry, but it could also be that it affects differently. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance to answer the question of expenditure and how this turns out. I am also concerned that consumers should have a healthy diet, that they should choose good, healthy foods. It is also important for the individual consumer to do with the currently charged charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e263	In the trade in goods in Norway, it employs more than 300,000 people. The food industry is Norway’s largest continental industry with nearly 50,000 people. Government Board of Solvency Horne is responsible for consumer matters and the food portal, and some of its purpose is to inform consumers about what is healthy and about prices, and to compare them. So Solveig Horne is part of a government and part of a college. Mr Horne, Minister of Consumer Affairs, for example, is wise. a healthy product which Vitamin bears receive 83 pst. growth in fees, while chocolate therapy – which is the other product I presented instead – gets zero percent in fee increases? What is the logic? And does Consumer Minister Solveig Horne think it is wise that more and more of Norwegian consumption, Norwegian groceries, are pushed across the border, and that more and more trade is happening on the Swedish side, not on the Norwegian side?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e270	If I don't remember faults, the Center Party has also been concerned that we should get up the prices of sugary drinks and groceries, because from a public health point of view, it is a challenge for consumers. I am also very pleased that the Consumer Council now, with the app called Peiling, is able to obtain the contents of the groceries, which enables consumers to make good, conscious choices when they are going to check the groceries at the store. As the representative also pointed out, the Progress Party has been very clear that we are opposed to taxes and taxes and also want to reduce taxes and taxes on border trade. That's what we've been through in this room alone, and it's new if the Senter party now suddenly thinks that we need to reduce the charges on both sugar and alcohol in order to prevent border trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e277	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e282	One of the important things for consumers is to have a lack of choice. We need Norwegian suppliers, for example. Lerum. They have reacted very negatively to the fee that has now come. But we also need a variety of shops and outlets. At the hearing of the nutrition committee, the leader of the Baker and Pastoral Association, Gunnar Bakke, said that this fee was missing. A reason for this with public health, but it may seem that the only purpose is to get the budget to go together, because you haven't budgeted for a sharp decline. My question is: How much does the sugar consumption expect to be sought, and how much less will the consumers be paid for by this fee? Or is it just about getting the budget to hang up?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e289	Now it's too early to say how this will turn out. It has not yet entered into force. But it is an important argument when the government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, has increased these charges, to reduce the consumption of sugar among consumers. I see in the news that this turns out wrong, and there are several people who are now on the road and believe that there is a risk of jobs more than that consumers are not getting good enough products. But it's too early to say how this will turn out. I am concerned that consumers should make healthy, good choices and that they should have a variety of products. We also have to think about public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e294	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e299	Several have already mentioned it: we have received an unpleasant reminder that sexual harassment is a major social problem, through the #metoo campaign. Two out of three women are now undergoing sexual harassment. But none of what we see now should surprise us. #metoo confirms what has previously been revealed through research and statistics, and which have been thoroughly explained by, among other things. The skee selection that the red-green government put down. The selection was reduced because sexual harassment is about biased power relationships in society for the benefit of men and at the expense of women, and that we therefore need to use political instruments — to correct the atrocities in general, but also to combat sexual harassment in particular. The follow-up to this report has a special responsibility for the Minister for Gender Equality Horne. For this reason, I now ask concretely: has the Council followed up and, where appropriate, how does the Board of State follow up the following important recommendations of the Skjeie Committee: providing enforcement authorities with regard to sexual harassment cases until what has now become the subject of equality and discrimination, in addition to the investigation that is taking place; sexual harassment is to be incorporated into the HMS provisions of the Working Environment Act a national scope study, which monitors sexual harassment outside the labour force, shall also include school students;
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e318	I just want to remind the representative of the Supreme Court that the Skjeie Committee was put down by the previous government. During the follow-up to the Skjeie Committee and when the Stoltenberg II government presented its case in 2013, the then government did not choose to add sexual harassment and its handling under the heading. We have now set up a new equality and discrimination law that strengthens women's rights. We have been given a new title that will take less time to deal with matters and will also be able to give up on issues of discrimination in the workplace. We're discussing sexual harassment here today, and let me stress: it's unacceptable, it's illegal. It is very clear in the Equality Act that sexual harassment is illegal. This shall be enforced by the courts. The Working Environment Act is also very clear on the illegality of sexual harassment. All employers have a responsibility to work and work actively against sexual harassment within their own company, and they also have to take action when this happens. We have recently received several examples of sexual harassment, which has affected us all. I am pleased that this campaign has made it possible for us to come forward with these matters and have really put this on the agenda. The gender equality ombudsman has now also made several suggestions on how to continue working against sexual harassment, and also on campaigns – starting early in school and not least in workplaces. We are now working on a low-threshold offer, and the proposals that came from the Equality Ombudsman will be an important part of the work to combat sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e332	I note that we need to wait longer if several of these measures will actually beimplemented, and that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman is now beingorganised without low-threshold enforcement being involved in the reorganisation. It is worrying, especially when last week the United Nations gave Norway and the Council of State Horne reprisals for lack of action and for government policies in several areas to go wrong: for example: free legal aid, which will affect the most vulnerable women, and cut off the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. That's why I want to ask the Council of State if she can cancel the UN criticism and see the ladies who have now stood up through #metoo, into their eyes and say that the government has done what the government can do? If not – which of the actions of the Skjeie Committee does the Council consider it most important to give priority to preventing more people from experiencing the same thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e337	At least I can cancel the UN's criticism of free legal aid, because there is now agreement in the budgetary agreement. As regards the Equality Ombudsman, I would like to stress that the Equality Ombudsman is no longer a enforcement body, which is to be referred to. When the Equality Ombudsman now loses tasks, it is quite natural that the money comes with your tasks to be carried out, i.e. in the Equal Opportunities Title. Therefore, there is no real cut in the tasks to be done by the Equality Ombudsman. In addition, 1.2 million have now arrived in the new age in Stortinget. kr in addition to the Equality Ombudsman, to which they are to apply in the situation in which they are situated. We're now going, as I said, to work out a low-threshold offer and take with us the recordings that come into that work, to make sure that the women who are exposed to sexual harassment have an offer. But let me stress that if you are subjected to sexual harassment, it will also be reported to the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e348	There will be follow-up questions – first Kari Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e353	Norway has gone from leading the world by making political, concrete decisions, such as quotaing, gender equality centres, full-time, LHBTI measures, vigorous and concrete action against violence and abuse, to mention something, to becoming a middle-aged in the field of gender equality. The Right Party and the Progressive Party are building up equality in Norway and Norway internationally as a country of equality. At the same time, the Prime Minister of the People's Party is standing in Stortinget and promotes a policy that is contrary to his own principle programme, so that there will be no political regulation of the relationship between sex in some areas – perhaps except to legitimize it with earaches when women are offended. We'll see about that. But what is it like to be a minister and stand here in the Storting and brag unhindered by the measures they are actually doing, which will regulate the relationship between sex – against the principle programme of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e366	I am happy to be the Minister of Gender Equality in the Right Party government, and what is very clear in the government platform, which is my responsibility to work after, is to strengthen the gender equality field. This is a work we've been working actively for the last four years, both in recognising that one of the greatest equality challenges we have is violence against women, and in presenting the first escalation plan against violence and abuse. There's a historical stake in this field. The introduction of a new equality and discrimination law, which in fact strengthens women’s rights more than the previous government has been able to achieve – and for the first time it will also have consequences to discriminate, with the new Discrimination Study – makes me happy that I have been given the role of Minister of Gender Equality for the last four years and have been able to do the important step in the gender equality field for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e373	Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e378	It is a part that has not been followed up by the government in the field of discrimination. Yesterday, at the Conference of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, there was a clear call from the Oslo Police Hate Crime Group that transsexuals should also be protected under Section 185 of the Criminal Code, where only homophilis is mentioned. In fact, none of the criminal code’s hate laws protect against hate crime because of gender identity and gender expression. In addition to the police, the Ombudsman and organisations in the field have also indicated that there is a strong need for protection in particular for trans-persons under the provisions of the criminal law. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality decided in its time to carry out an overall review of the work on the Equality and Discrimination Act, and they concluded that gender identity and gender expression should be taken as a basis. Unfortunately, however, the provisions of the criminal law have not yet been amended, and cases against trans-persons who are subjected to hateful statements are therefore not followed up by criminal law. Will the Council of State take the initiative to make a clarification in Section 185 that takes care of that group?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e387	I can say yes to that. This is one of the points in the strategy against hateful statements made by the government in 2016, and it is also a work that the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice are working on to include this in the penal code.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e392	Solveig Schaugvoll Foss – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e397	I want to ask a follow-up question to the councillor Horne. Attitudes are created early. So if we want more equality and less sexual harassment, the school is a good place to start. That is why the Skjeie Committee, which was so well-informed by the representative of the Supreme Court, proposed that students taking health and social education should have the necessary knowledge of violence, abuse and sexual harassment. They proposed a programme for the prevention of sexual harassment in schools, and they suggested that work on sexual harassment be explicitly enshrined in the Training Act. I wonder if the Minister for Equal Opportunities has taken initiative with the Minister of Knowledge to discuss what the government can do to strengthen this work at school. And what assessments have been made in the case of these recommendations from the Skjeie Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e404	I thank you for the question. I fully agree that it is important to start with attitudes as early as possible. I am glad that the Minister of Knowledge was with me at a high school this Monday, when we discussed what is going on in hateful speeches and hot in the schoolyard and in the classroom and what the young people are being exposed to today. One part of this work is to provide both teachers and parents with information about how young people today are doing on social media and what they are being exposed to. The hateyringer.no website shall provide advice and guidance. Much of the work that lies in the strategy against hateful expressions especially affects children and young people. There are also campaigns that youth organisations have, which are important. If we're going to be able to deal with this, we have to start early. So this is a work that both the Minister of Knowledge and I are concerned about, and that we work with in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e412	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e417	It has, as has been said, been very alarming over the last few weeks to hear the stories of men who have taken care of different environments and industries and have subjected women to various forms of sexual harassment. It appears to be a major, systematic and cultural problem that affects us all. To get real changes, it's important that we not only talk about the symptoms, but also the root of this ugly problem, and then I think you have to talk about human vision and equidistant thoughts. For the Christian People's Party, equality is about something as fundamental as human dignity. My question to the Council of State is therefore: What does the Council of State think is the greatest challenge in our time when it comes to the idea that all people are equally worth regardless of gender or other basic characteristics?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e424	I fully agree with the representative that equality is about human dignity, it's about equal opportunities whether you're a woman or a man. It's a value that's been involved in gender equality in the last four years. So I'm very concerned that one of the major gender equality challenges we have is violence especially against women. There is a work that we work with across – in the health sector, it's about the justice sector and getting in place a reinforcement of that work in the police, getting victim services in place, which is going to be with and follow the victim from the report until a judgment is passed. We know that there are many women today – too many – who do not report from and do not seek help. It's a job that we have to continue working on in the future to secure all women.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e431	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e436	Violence can affect women regardless of ethnic origin, social background or status. In 1999, the UN General Assembly decided that 25 November should be an international day for the abolition of violence against women. Saturday that was, was also used here at home to focus on violence against women globally and locally, which takes place in all societies and cultures. Violence against women is never a private matter, but a social problem that affects millions of women and reverses development and all walks of life. With the #metoo campaign, which is an important campaign, we must not forget the ugly figures that show the facts of violence against women. 35 pst. of all women in the world experiencing violence, in some areas seven out of ten women. Over 600 million women live in lands where domestic violence is not prohibited. Up to 50 pst. of all sexual assaults against girls under 16 years of age. 250 million of today's women were married before the age of 15, and 200 million of today's women have been sexually mutilated. This is grossly unfair. At the same time, Norway is perhaps the world's most equal country. We have many strong women in politics, several party leaders, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. In the Chamber we have three strong female members of the Government, both the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and the Minister for Immigration and Integration. I hope the Foreign Minister will be able to confirm what I hope for, that this government with so many strong women in forward positions feels an extra responsibility to promote equality both locally here at home and globally. We in Norway, on the Storing and in the Government, have all the strength we need to raise the fifth UN sustainability target, which is gender equality. I think all the men here at Stortinget will be willing to contribute with ours. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore: does she want Norway to be the country in the world that is going to go ahead and pull the load in order to promote equality and abolish violence against women, and how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs specifically plan for Norway to take on that leadership role?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e447	I would first like to thank the representative Abid Q. Raja for the commitment he has and has shown for women's rights. This is a field that permeates everything we do in development policy — and to a very large extent in foreign policy. The reasons for that are obvious, that's the reasons that Abid Q mentions. I was at a conference yesterday and launched a new index for women, peace and security together with the PRIO and Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security. They have compiled different indices to be able to give a better picture of the situation for women in general, both when talking about access and inclusion, when talking about legal rights, and when talking about violence against women. The days we have now entered, where the major international campaign is being marked, we in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have also given the start shot for. We are engaged in a number of initiatives to help reduce violence against women, and we always assess whether projects in which we are involved can contribute in various ways to making the situation worse in terms of human rights and women's rights in particular. Then, of course, we seek to avoid participating in those projects. Let me also stress that a very important part of the work we are doing, especially relates to two things. One is education, and especially education for girls, where Norway is at the forefront. The second is the question of sexual and reproductive rights, where Norway is also at the forefront. There we see in both areas that the international exposure is now temporarily reduced. It's a significant concern we have, because we connect these two things with human rights, women's rights in particular, and thus seek to take on an international leadership role.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e456	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, and I can confirm – at least for the Left – that if the government wants to take on the global leadership role, the Left from the Storing will support this. There are many questions to follow up on the foreign field, and I think we'll find other opportunities to get back to this. I want to bring this question back, too, to the Minister for Gender Equality. On Saturday, which was Saturday, I was handed over a plug from the women who went on a demonstration. One of the measures they focus on is that women require freedom from honor-related violence. While we're here today, I know that there's a conference that LIM has initiated in parallel, where we're just working to deal with honorary violence. My question to the Minister for Gender Equality is that women in Norway have achieved a high level of equality, but minority women may be a little behind. How will the Minister for Gender Equality take on the great ceiling for minority women to come at the same level as ethnic Norwegian women?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e465	This is probably a question that the representative could also ask Minister for Integration Listhaug. The fight against violence against women, whether ethnically Norwegian or minority, is equally important. All women shall have equal opportunities and rights, and it is important to support the work carried out by organisations in order to show women their rights. It is important, when we talk about violence against women, that individual environments also address this, because violence is illegal in Norway. This is a work that the government cannot do alone. We rely on the environment itself to put this on the agenda and put it down. Women in Norway, whether they are ethnically Norwegian or have a minority background, shall be granted rights. It is important that they also report and get help. Both the crisis centres and the outreach services are today also designed to help minority women to get out of violent situations and to report cases where there is violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e476	It opens for follow-up questions - first Ketil Kjenseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e481	My question goes to Minister of Integration Sylvi Listhaug – we bring all the strong, female ministers who are visiting today to the Chair. When it comes to culture of honor, social control, coercion, violence and assault, there was also an interpellant debate on this in the Storting yesterday. We've talked a lot about women who feel unwell, and who take to heart protests. Part of the challenge here is men, and the question of the Minister of Integration is about addressing both history, religion and the need for men to use control mechanisms: Is the Council satisfied, after four years with the Progress Party in Government, with how to deal with man's exercise and use of ruling techniques in general, but among minority people in particular?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e488	I don't think the Progress Party alone can be able to change what attitudes men – neither in the immigrant community nor elsewhere in society – exhibit against women. What is important, however, is that we work to change culture and attitudes internally in the immigrant community that have this as a problem. We have presented an action plan with many follow-up actions, and we are also following up on new actions related to the stories that have now emerged, on children being sent out of the country to be snorted or taken care of in a way that is contrary to Norwegian law. I think it is incredibly important and necessary, as the Minister for Children and Gender Equality pointed out, that the environment itself takes a settlement with this and changes culture. We have a lot of laws and rules. We depend on, in order for these laws and rules to be applied, for someone to report the cases, and for them to be prosecuted in the criminal system to set an example. The interpellation debate yesterday was very good. One of the points that I think everyone agreed on is that we have to start training earlier, like in high school, about what rights you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e496	Masud Gharakhkani – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e501	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for Gender Equality. If Norway is to succeed, we depend on high employment and equality. The message for immigrant women must be as follows: If you live in Norway, you will learn Norwegian and you will have to enter the labour market. In Norway, there is no mention of women going home. In Norway, the workline is the one that applies. The government itself says that the cash support inhibits employment. That is why my question to the Minister for Gender Equality – if it is still the case that the Minister for Gender Equality is responsible for equality and not the Minister for Fisheries: How does the government think it is promoting equality and integration by distributing 7 500 DKK per month of taxpayers' money to immigrant women for their going home and not going to work, and for them not to send their kids to kindergarten to learn Norwegian at school?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e510	If the Workers' Party were so concerned with the cash support and that it prevented integration, they could, when they had a majority in this room, remove the cash support. Instead, they increased it to NOK 5000 per month. Cash support helps to give families freedom of choice, flexibility. It's also important, because some kids don't have kindergarten, and some kids aren't ready to go to kindergarten. Therefore, the government has been committed to retaining the cash support as well. Then we also see that there are challenges with cash support from an integration perspective. That is why I am pleased that we have now established a housing requirement, so that both parents must have lived in Norway for five years in order to receive cash support. This will help to increase the number of children in kindergarten, and also help minority women to get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e519	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e524	It could have been tempting to follow up on the foreign minister if Norway actually goes in and fills the gap that arises when conservative governments withdraw support, especially for projects about women's health and sexuality, because it's the campaign venue across all the campgrounds around the world. But my question goes to the Minister for Integration, because yesterday the Stortinget got a proposition on the table, and there are adjustments to the year's budget. In it we can read that the funds for the national housing and support scheme for people over the age of 18 who are exposed to forced and honour-related violence have not been used up, and yesterday we discussed up and down the importance of providing assistance and not least a safe and good housing offer clearly at the moment for those who dare to break out. Then my question is to the Council of State: Why has it not been ensured that this offer has been made available to all those we believe need it, instead of sending the money back to the government and not spending it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e531	Of course, those who come in contact with them through the help measures and who need to use our housing and support services are getting help in doing so. Then I'm sure there are many out there who should have received help, but who for various reasons don't make contact, perhaps because they think it's hard to break contact with the family, perhaps because in loyalty to their parents they choose to have their freedom set aside rather than go looking for help. Therefore, the important thing is that we have access to those who are there and work for more people to report from, and that work is of course very important to us. Such debates that have recently taken place, I believe, help to show that there is a help offer out there, and also show where you can turn to for help. So I think we have a good offer when it comes to that, but it has to become even better known.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e536	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e541	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. Economic autonomy was a prerequisite for the liberation of Norwegian women. The same applies to women with a minority background. When the Minister for Gender Equality uses the evidence that equality is going ahead that the use of cash support is falling, she must almost explain it. So if there's a dilemma between freedom of choice on the one hand and equality on the other, then the Minister for Gender Equality will opt out of equality. What will the Minister for Gender Equality do in order for equality to progress, and the use of cash support to be reduced, which, in the view of the Minister for Gender Equality, leads to progress?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e546	Economic autonomy is important for all, but the use of cash support for a small period of the child’s life is nevertheless important for the ability of each family to be able to go hungry and have a flexibility in their family life. So we're talking about when the child is from 11 to 23 months. It's a short time, and it's important for this government to be able to hold up the cash support so that the family can use it. The use of cash support goes down. That's absolutely correct. It is also important for immigrant women to get into work. I hope that the Workers' Party is on the decision on living requirements that we made in May, so that the living requirement of five years can be met. Then it's important to work with free core time, which the government has put in place, so there's babysitting space for these children. We have also increased what goes on at Jobsjansen to get more minority women into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e553	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e558	Two weeks ago, Stortinget decided that the decision on the October children should be put on hold and that they should have the matter reviewed. It seemed good to me, even though the Christian People's Party would prefer to see the legal security of these young people strengthened by the reintroduction of the conditions of affordability in the event of internal refugees. But we couldn't get that into the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The background to the two-week decisions taken in the Grand Duchy was that the use of temporary residence permits for single minor asylum seekers has escalated and that many will be forced to return to Afghanistan. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the broadcasts of the October children are now on hold, and that the young will have the saga reviewed. So the Council of State has sent, on the same day as the decisions were taken in Stortinget, an instruction to the Foreign Affairs Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department that one would postpone until further notice the implementation of the decisions relating to the October children. But that's also what I can see that the Council of State has done. Now there's a lot of uncertainty around the country about what's actually going to happen to these kids. People ask, who's going to deal with the cases? Is it UDI or is it UNE? How many people will be able to stop in Norway? When are they going to get information, and in what way? And not least, how will those who have left the country be treated, and what information will they receive? We in the Christian People's Party are concerned about these kids. They have a very uncertain existence as things are now. Many have been given the hope that they will not be forced to return to Afghanistan, where in several reports the UN has pointed out that the situation is worsening. I expect the government to follow this, give it debt, information in a good way, that this is a high priority, and that you can do something about this uncertainty. My question to the Council of State is: What is the status of the decisions taken by the Stortinget on 14 November, and what concrete measures and instructions has the government taken after these decisions were taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e572	Many of the questions asked by the representative here are the same questions that we in the department are asking ourselves right now. That's why we're now working on both investigating and evaluating the things adopted in Stortinget, and how we're going to follow it up. It is clear that we will need to come back to clarify some of these questions, because the decisions that are taken can be interpreted in many different ways, and we are committed to following up the decision of the Big One in the best possible way, in line with what the Big One actually meant. It's about what kind of changes are required – regulation or instruction or both? What should the changes materially consist of? We need to have an explanation for that. What cases are covered by the right to review? Who will carry out the reassessment? Is it UDI or UNE or both agencies, depending on where in the process the matter is? How should matters be handled where the person concerned is abroad? Are they supposed to be there while the reassessment is taking place? Should a reassessment be requested, or shall UDI and UNE review their own initiative? Should there be free legal advice? What time should the reassessment be based on? Should there be a present assessment, or should the circumstances be taken into account at the time of the original decision, or should there be a combination of these two, if appropriate? These are grown men who came when they were minors. We are working on doing the job that we warned the Stortinget had not done in advance, namely to investigate and look at the consequences of how this is to be done in practice, because that is what the government is doing in presenting cases to the Stortinget – you are making these assessments in advance. I can assure you that we are working too hard to get back to Stortinget, to the parties that agreed to this, so that we can get a clarification and be sure that we follow this up in line with what is Stortinget's intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e581	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I feel that many of the same questions I ask are being asked back. Then you can understand that you are in a process and that a work is done. There should be respect for that, but I could wish that the Council of State said something about when one could expect these things to come back to us in the hall, because there is now a situation where many live in great uncertainty, and where there is a need to come up with some clarifications. I want to ask the Council of State: does it have a plan for when it is in force, to get information on how this will happen, and will that information also go to those who no longer live in Norway, but have either fled our country or have been forced to return with the background of other decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e588	Yes, we are now working on these questions and will come back to the parties that have made decisions, so that we can get clarifications that will enable us to carry this out in line with what is Storting's intention. But the whole matter shows how many questions arise when Stortinget makes complicated decisions that have not been investigated. We want to do what we can to come back in a way that is in line with the Storting's wish. That's why it takes some time to go through this. Then, of course, we will come up with proposals on how this can be done, but we are dependent, in view of those who have taken these decisions, which can be implemented in different ways, to be sure that this is the intention behind the proposals that we are going to go ahead with. For me, this is a very high priority case. I hope that when we get back, the parties that have taken these decisions can give quick feedback so that we can implement them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e593	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkewold.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e598	We have received many enquiries relating to what is happening to the October children. One of the feedback we have received concerns us very much. We have heard that a so-called October child who meets the criteria adopted in Stortinget on 14 November this year, who travelled from Norway in September 2017 because he feared to be forced to return to Afghanistan, was stopped at the border between Germany and Denmark and was told that he was not wanted in Norway. If this is true, it is mildly alarming. My question to the Council of State is therefore: has it been in any way communicated by the Norwegian team to European countries to provide information to lone minor asylum seekers who have had a temporary residence permit in Norway and who fulfil the criteria set out in the Decision of 14 November in Stortinget that they are not wanted in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e605	This is completely unknown to me. Of course, Norway is part of the Dublin acquis, and that means that if other countries come across people who have been dealt with in Norway, they will contact the Norwegian authorities to get a Dublin return. In the same way as we, if asylum seekers from other countries who have received their decision in other countries for which they are responsible, address us to those countries in order to return the persons to whom it relates. Norway fully accepts its obligations under the Dublin Convention. We're going to keep doing that. With regard to those who contact the authorities in other countries and who have their case in Norway, I would assume that in most cases they will be contacted by the Norwegian authorities and that they will be sent back to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e610	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e615	It is good that the Council of State is in the process of following the decision of the Storting. She could, for example, start by evaluating its own Prop. 90 L for 2015–2016, where it is said that those who are not allowed to stay with refugee status will be mainly allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis. You can see if that's true. My question is about the report we received from FO, NOAS and Redd Barna, where it is said that in 38 of 50 cases there are no child-care assessments. In a debate I had with the immigration political spokesperson of the Progress Party, he said that that sample is not representative of how matters are handled. Then my question is to the Council of State: Has the Council of State gone through the same report? And does the Council have any information on what is the representative answer to the questions raised in the NOAS, Save Barna and FO report?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e622	I have confidence in the job that the foreign agencies are doing. That also means the procedure they carry out, that it is in line with the laws and regulations that the Storting actually prefaces. So it's like the legislation that's here for discussion is constantly missing, related to lone minors with a temporary residence permit, aged 16-18, was introduced by the Workers' Party government because they saw that they had large arrivals. There is reason to recall that this is a code that we now administer, which also a previous government so that it was needed. Then there's a decision in the Biggest on changes. We are working to get back to the parties that have made these decisions so that we can implement it in line with what is the intention of the decisions. So I trust that the job that the foreign agencies are doing is real and proper and in line with the legislation that is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e631	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e636	Many of these issues are addressed in a document proposed by SV, which is currently being discussed in the Stortinge. based on that report, so I hope we can get a clarification of that. So to the need for interpretation, I am glad that the Council of State now says that those who have been in Norway and where Norway has had a responsibility under the Dublin Agreement must, of course, be subject to the responsibility of Norway and then, of course, within the decision taken here in Stortinget. After all, it is a clarification for those who have made another flight because they were afraid to be forced to return. So the question is: The majority of the population has given the Council a kind of blank mandate to tighten rules and underlying legislation, but now the Council of State says that the interpretation of this decision should be addressed and determined by the majority of the population that have adopted it. Does this mean that the government does not consider that the authority given to them by Stortingen to tighten rules applies to this decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e646	What is at stake now is to implement the decision taken at Stortinget in the best possible way. The point is that decisions can be interpreted in many different ways. Then I need those who promoted this proposal, those who voted in favour of it, to be able to tell in clear terms how to think it. It shows some of the problem that Stortinget takes decisions without investigations, without the kind of balances that we see we have to make in a rich way after the decision has been taken. Of course, we're going to follow up the decisions taken in Stortinget, but at least it shows that there are some loose threads that we have to get there. Then I am concerned that the parties behind this can contribute to these clarifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e651	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e656	I hear the Council of State being responsive to the majority's decision. I also hear that the Council of State is setting up a good deal of uncertainties related to both regulations, instructions, UDI or UNE, timing and legal advice. But this is also something the government can influence along the way, until one comes back to Stortinget. As an example, the Christian People's Party and the Left have been committed to maintaining the reasonableness condition – with it likely around 220 of those who are now involved and who are going to get their case resumed, probably getting caught up in – while there are vulnerability criteria that have become the majority of the Stortingen to use now as a basis for going through these matters. I estimate that this may apply approx. 10 who are allowed to stay after the re-examination. Between zero and 220, does the Council have any estimate of how many of these could apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e661	It's very hard to say. It also depends on the manner in which lots which have adopted it are intended to be carried out. That's where I have a lot of questions that I'll come back to. First of all, the principle of fairness has not been adopted, and I have not seen it – so far at least. Although I see that these are ongoing new assessments that are being made in the parties, and you change your point of view on a case-by-case basis, at least it has not yet been decided to make changes to it. What is important to say is that removing the reasonableness condition means that those who can get protection in their own country – in their own country – should have it. In a world where there are 65 million people on the run, I think it is right that those who can get protection in their own country actually get it. I think everyone understands that coming to Norway and staying here will mean an improvement in the standard of living and quality of life — of all things — for most people who do, but adding up is not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e670	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e675	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Myanmar is one of the countries in the world where Norway stood for human rights — actively engaged in dialogue with both the military regime and the opposition to get Aung San Suu Kyi out of house arrest. We thus contributed to democratic development in the country. Now we see that soldiers from Myanmar have hunted the rowingya people across the border of Bangladesh. Thousands have lost their lives, women have been raped, children have been killed, and men have been executed. We must stand up to religious persecution, whether it be Christians in Iraq or Muslims in Myanmar. Myanmar was selected by the government in the autumn of 2014 as one of the twelve so-called focus countries for Norwegian aid, a country with which we cooperate more closely than ever. According to the evening post, the foreign minister was careful when she met her colleague last week. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will contribute to a solution," she says. But is it easier to find a solution by being careful? Is the new line that we have to be careful when we're talking about human rights? That was really the very opposite we did under the military regime. My question is: what consequences will the brutal persecution of the rowingya people have for the increasing Norwegian aid to Myanmar?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e686	Of course, I can't understand how some journalists describe things that happened at meetings in Myanmar, but I can fully support the message I gave, both in plenary meetings with other Asian and European countries and also in direct meetings with Aung San Suu Kyi. We have been both clear and clear in the condemnation of what is happening in Rakhine, that full humanitarian approach is required, a stop in violence and a safe return for the refugees. And it's not just about – as I also said to Aung San Suu Kyi – a safe return, but something to return to and a stop in the violence against those who come back. I have by no means been careful in my mention of either human rights or what is happening. But at the same time, it is important to see the complexity of a country that for the first time in over 50 years had democratic elections, that has lived for 70 years continuously in conflict, and that continues to do so, and what is happening now, with both increasing nationalism and significant internal challenges. Military government still has 25 pst. by the seats of the Parliament. They point out some of the most important ministerial posts. Nevertheless, my message to Aung San Suu Kyi was clear. One was that we hold the elected government responsible, and – second, that what has to happen now is that we are moving forward in the situation that has arisen, in order to improve the situation of the rowingyas. We have not increased assistance in the years that are now behind us, or in the future – it is about. 250 million. kr per year. At the same time, it is vital that we use the long-term commitment we have in Myanmar to contribute to an improvement in the situation both in the country and for the refugees who have come to Bangladesh. That's about. 620,000 just in the last time. We have strengthened our humanitarian efforts in the region by 80 million. kr only since August, just to help ensure that what is a dramatic situation can come up with a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e695	What I hear the Foreign Minister say here is that the situation will have no impact on Norwegian aid. Norway is not willing to make demands on its beneficiaries, said today’s Minister for Foreign Affairs when she was the head of the Foreign and Defence Committee. When progress fails or progress goes in the wrong direction, it does not have consequences, was her criticism, and especially in areas such as human rights and good governance. At that time, Eriksen Søreide criticized the aid to Ethiopia. My question is: what are the consequences of changes in the field of human rights for assistance to both Ethiopia and Myanmar? Is it Ethiopia that has changed, or is it the Minister for Foreign Affairs that has changed its view of Norwegian aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e702	The current Minister for Foreign Affairs has not changed his view. In fact, over the four years that have passed, we have changed the policy that the red-greens followed when, for example, it was. the inclusion of human rights with Ethiopia. Now it's a cross-cutting topic in our dialogue with Ethiopia, and it has to be, because it's a very worrying development in human rights in Ethiopia. So back to Myanmar: the red-green government reopened contact with Myanmar around 2010/2011. One of the important things now is to contribute to the contribution of the projects we have, which are linked to democracy, civil society, good governance and human rights, to the improvement of the situation. If the international community now turns its back on the civil and responsible government, after all, judging the moderate forces will be marginalized and more of the military government will return to power. It's a situation that won't improve the people of Myanmar. That's the balance sheet and the balance sheet we and all the other countries are doing right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e709	It opens for follow-up questions – first Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e714	I note that, contrary to what the Council of State said when she was in opposition, aid to Ethiopia increased from 359 million. SEK in 2013 to SEK 442 million. kr in 2016, according to the government’s own information in the State budget. I do not think the Council of State is answering the question from Huitfeldt, in particular, about what has changed. What makes you choose a different strategy, a different policy now than what you thought was right when you put in the opposition? Should you no longer make demands on beneficiaries, something that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was very concerned about when she was in opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e722	I am concerned that there are requirements to be made, and we also make demands. But, as I said in my reply to the representative Huitfeldt, we had a time behind us, in the reign of the previous government, where there was a very one-sided focus on economic growth, sustainability goals and environmental issues. Then human rights came in second rows. That was my criticism, and the government has done something about this period by lifting human rights as a very important part of the agenda, especially with regard to Ethiopia and some other countries. We regularly deal with the authorities where you think it's problematic. For example, last year Børge took up the state of emergency, which has now been lifted. It was problematic. The fact that we have this dialogue also makes it possible for us to have human rights as part of the natural dialogue with the countries with which we cooperate. It's a change from when Eirik Sivertsen's party was in government. Then it was very focused on economic growth unilaterally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e727	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e732	I think we can see that a person deals with human rights issues with countries where one sees that it is bad, but then one pays them by increasing the amount. I don't want to go any further on that, because I don't think we're getting any better answers than what's already come up with the three questions, which are nothing special to answer. There are now more displaced people in the world than ever since the UN High Commissioner for Refugees started to run statistics in 1951. Strengthening the UN High Commissioner for Refugees is one of the most effective measures we can take to remedy the situation. Therefore, in its alternative budget, the Central Party increased the fees by 100 million. The government has done nothing about the high commissioner's rights for refugees in the United Nations in recent years. Certain situations for, inter alia: The rowingya people continue to get worse, does the Council of State see it as natural to increase Norwegian support directly, marked to them, in order to remedy that situation – via the High Commissioner for Refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e739	I'm not going to continue the polemics around the issue of Ethiopia and human rights, but it's a fact that the government has changed its arrangement on human rights issues. Among other things, we have delivered its own big message on the matter, it permeates our foreign policy, and it has received broad support in Stortinget. So to the question of the rowingyans and others, it is absolutely necessary on the part of the government to adapt the efforts we make humanitarianally and for refugees, when we see how many refugees we have in the world today – and so have we. We have significantly increased the humanitarian response. For the first time, we now have a humanitarian budget of over 5 billion. SEK – 5.2 billion. kr – and it is precisely to be able to deal with what is an increasing number of emerging crises involving refugees in different ways, either by being internally displaced or by having to flee to other countries. We're going to keep doing this. We keep an eye on where the needs are greatest, and we adapt to those needs. We're a big giver, and we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e746	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e751	I record that the Council of State does not respond to what is being asked of her – whether to strengthen the UNHCR. It is also very difficult to understand the impact it has on the aid that Norway is now providing to Myanmar, which should have been modified in accordance with the guidelines that the Council of State says they have adopted, namely that more attention should be paid to human rights in that dialogue. So this is not about anyone wanting to reverse this regime, or this help, the back, as the Council of State suggests, that someone might want – on the contrary. What demands is the government now making on the assistance given – in concrete terms – so that we can follow up the very serious human rights situation, and as the Council of State says, the government places more emphasis on now than before?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e758	It is also a little difficult to get what representatives of the opposition are supposed to do, when you both say that you want to continue a long-term help, while some obviously think that you should cut down on that help. What is the challenge in Myanmar now is that we have a very fragile democratically elected government that is under considerable pressure. They have a responsibility. They are held responsible for the policy pursued in the country. At the same time, if the entire international community were to reduce or cut its long-term support – which we in Norway concentrate in particular on good governance, democratic development, peace and reconciliation, dialogue between peoples to prevent conflict – then the result is that the situation of the civil regime, of human rights and of marginalised groups would become even more challenging. That's why we have to do both. We must both have a long-term commitment – which I also feel the red-green government had – while making demands in our dialogue, and we demand that the refugee situation that is now be resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e763	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e768	On the question from Liv Signe Navarsete, it is also good to be able to state that, through the budgetary agreement with the government, a significant proportion of what goes to Myanmar in the budget could be used to remedy the congestion in border areas. I'm very glad that text has found its place there. I have a specific question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and for Myanmar: Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs consider taking initiatives in the UN so that the Security Council can ask the ICC, the International Criminal Court, to look at the violations that have taken place in Myanmar? The question is therefore whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs will consider taking such an initiative, so that the matter can be referred from the Security Council to the ICC.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e775	One of the very first and most important things we've done in this context is to be a driver so that we now get to an independent investigation from the United Nations of what's happened and what's happening. In that case, it will form the basis for any further work through the Security Council. It is essential that there be an unwarranted assessment of the situation that is and has been, and not least that full access is ensured for humanitarian actors and for investigative commissions. It was also a central point I made in my conversations in Myanmar last week. Secondly, it is now essential to implement the recommendations of the Second Commission. There has also been a very clear demand from the Norwegian side. We have agreed, and are ready, to assist and contribute to the implementation of the longer-term work resulting from the Annan Commission. It is precisely because to ensure peaceful development one must also have peace and reconciliation between different peoples.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e782	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e796	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Petter Eide to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Industry on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has left. The question will be raised by the representative, Mr Foss. Question 6, from the representative Emilie Enger Mehl to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be taken up by the representative Per Martin Sandtrøen. Question 8 from the representative of the Björn Moxnes lapses.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e814	‘In the budgetary agreement for the State budget 2018, the Right, Advance Party, Christian People’s Party and Left levies on chocolate and sugar products and non-alcoholic beverages will increase by more than SEK 2 billion. At the same time, the agreement means that VAT-free shopping can continue on networks from foreign online shops for up to NOK 350 per person. transit. The industry reports that online trade in the same products that are now being charged billions in increased taxes is already increasing sharply. What effect does the Council of State think this increase in fees will have for Norwegian jobs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e821	It is true that the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed in the budget agreement to increase the excise duty on chocolate and sugar products and non-alcoholic beverages. The increase in excise duties on chocolate and sugar products and non-alcoholic beverages is estimated to generate an annual increase in revenue of about 2 billion. kr. Next year's budgetary impact is estimated at 1.84 billion. kr. I would like to show that both the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have proposed in their alternative budget proposals to increase the VAT on candy and shower to 25 pst. Such a change will contribute as much to price increases as to the increase in excise duties now resulting from the budget agreement. However, an increase in excise duty is considerably less bureaucratic than an increase in VAT. Excise duties are paid by a few producers and importers. The VAT, on the other hand, is levied at all stages and would affect thousands of shops, kiosks, gas stations, etc. Commodities with a value of less than 350 kroner sent to the recipient in Norway are exempt from VAT, as well as any customs duties and excise duties. Freight and insurance costs are included in the value of goods. I see that the fee increase raises questions about the 350-kroner limit. With a lower limit, more consumers can be expected to be charged a charge from the carrier than today. Small consignments of goods may be disproportionately expensive. The issue of the impact of the increase in charges on workplaces needs to be considered in a broader context. The increased proceeds are used for other purposes in the budget. The government is engaged in a responsible economic policy with good and general framework conditions that make it attractive to invest and operate in Norway. The government has therefore given priority to implementing growth-enhancing tax incentives that provide better framework conditions for the entire economy. In addition, more targeted incentives are being provided to promote entrepreneurial activity, research and development. The main contribution is the tax reform, to which a broad majority of the Grand Duchy has joined. The reform contributes to the creation of a more growth-enhancing tax system in Norway. It is the overall framework conditions that affect growth and jobs in this country. Here the government has delivered, and we will continue in the budget for next year. Under the terms of the budget agreement, the total amount of taxes and taxes payable under this government has been reduced by more than 24 billion. kr when all proposals are fully phased in. Nearly 8.8 billion. kr is the relief of the business tax. In line with the agreement of the Stortingen on the tax reform, the general income tax rate for companies and persons is reduced to 23 p.m. and the valuation discount for shares and operating assets in the property tax is increased to 20 p.m. Differentiated rates are reintroduced into the employer’s taxes on energy and transport, and a tax deduction scheme for long-term investments in start-up companies is in place. So the sum total: it is the sum of the framework conditions that are important for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e838	I specifically asked about the effect of this fee increase on the fact that a still retaining the 350-kroner limit. The 350-krona ceiling means a targeted subsidisation of foreign network trade, while the budget agreement now provides for a sharp increase in charges on the most vulnerable products. The Center Party believes in all of Norway. The progress party obviously does not even care about a small piece of Norway anymore. This is a targeted attack on Freia, at Nidar, at Lerum – in many other jobs in Norway. Workplaces are now disappointing out of Norway. The Party has also opted for the reduction of excise duties on a frontier trade product, and now it is smacking one more with a fee increase of more than 80 pst. Where is the logic of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e845	As I said in my previous answer, it has been important for this government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, to strengthen the general framework conditions for Norwegian business, and so it is doing quite well in the Norwegian economy at the moment. The arrows point in the right direction, the unemployment rate goes down, the growth is rising, and there are positive signals coming from almost all parts of the country. We're going to enjoy that. However, at the same time, when the representative Gülsvik now uses large words such as ‘targeted attack’ and ‘selling one more’, etc., it might be tempting to recall that under the red-green government, there was an increase in the levy on non-alcoholic beverages with added sugar and sweetening by 80 pst. Then the Center Party called this neither a targeted attack nor a narrowing of charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e852	So here it's a one-year fee increase that's larger than the red-green ones in five years. It comes to the top of the level that was under the red-green government. If it is that the Minister of Finance believes that the level was too high, you should reduce the fees and not click on a new fee at the top of it. What Swedish operators at the border report is that one of the products that now receive a massive increase in fees in Norway expects to double their turnover. This is about the fact that on the top of an already rapidly increasing border trade, a perhaps 1 billion is expected. kr to in the border trade, at the top of it again. And then my question is to the Minister of Finance: in the budget agreement, one of them lays a foundation for wealth. But when one estimates it, and that there will then be several thousand tonnes of reduced turnover of these goods in Norway, how many jobs will be lost in Norway as a result?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e859	As I said in my first answer, it is wrong when the representative Gülsvik withdraws one fee and leaves it out to look at the whole. So this is the sum of the loads on Norwegian business, which are crucial for whether the competitiveness is good or not. So under this government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the tax pressure is reduced by over 24 billion. kr. 8.8 B.C.E. kr of it has been targeted at Norwegian business. We have done that because we believe it is right to have good and competitive framework conditions for a business that we now see doing well over the whole country, and we should be happy about that, rather than having a selective approach to individual taxes. It is true that, in its alternative budget, the Centre Party has also proposed to increase various charges, but it is, of course, adapted to what the Centre Party believes to be right. We believe that this is the sum of the burdens that we put on business, which are decisive for competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e873	My question is, in fact, short and clear: ‘What is the status of the work on the settlement of Norwegian wage and working conditions requirements in Norwegian and Norwegian waters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e880	I held a meeting with the industry at the end of September to discuss how to resolve the matter. I have noticed the recordings of several organisations, which consider it important that the industry be involved in the process in order to ensure the necessary legitimacy for the investigation. It's important to me too, and I'll follow up on that. As I informed them at the meeting with the parties, I can see that we have to deal with three main issues. Firstly, the investigation must clarify the legal space in the case. In this context, it is necessary to assess the possibilities Norway has for requiring Norwegian pay and working conditions in the light of our international commitments, including the flag State principle. Secondly, and given the existence of a legal room for action, the investigation will need to assess what measures can be taken. Thirdly, the investigation must contain an assessment of the consequences of any demand for Norwegian pay and working conditions. I plan to invite the industry to a new meeting where there will be an opportunity to comment on the mandate for the investigation. Of course, draft terms of reference will be submitted to the parties in good time before the meeting. As soon as the mandate is completed, we will start work. So I want a good dialogue with the parties to this work, which I have also had in the last four years, where we have implemented a number of changes to strengthen Norwegian seafarers and the maritime industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e897	I thank you for your answer. The term of office is clear, but what is still a little unclear is who is to work out what is in the mandate. Will be offered to a particular environment, or there will be a wide group there, for example. the academy is represented to do this job?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e904	This is one of the things where we have to conclude. Firstly, the mandate is not clear. What I was now sketching is what I think the mandate should contain, and then the parties may have different views about it. These are two main approaches. It was also discussed at the meeting I had with the parties, and that is some of what we have to conclude on. One is whether we should invite through a tendering process, as we usually do, to get professionals, of course, within the academy to do the investigation. This contains legally complex issues that require professional approaches. The other thing that was sketched from the employee's side was the desire for a party-based sample, which may also be good reasons for having in many contexts, but in this context we have had it. We've had a range selection. We are now working on implementing the recommendations of the majority. This was not part of the recommendation. So here we're going to conclude very quickly and in meeting with the parties, as I said, go through the mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e913	I think it is very important, what the Council of State says, that once the distribution has been completed, it should have legitimacy. Then I perceive that it must be possible for the parties to make recordings and other things that one would like to highlight. As I see it, there are two ways of doing this: either going out into an environment through an offer, or putting down a broader group. As the Council of State says, these are legally complex questions. I think it's a very powerful force for the legitimacy of the statement that the selection is as wide as possible. There was a advice on the road. So to the question, when can we expect this statement to be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e920	Firstly, I invite the parties to the ongoing dialogue. I've had that for four years, and I still do. If you want other things clarified, we will discuss it as well, but I have received a mission from Stortinget that I have to answer. These are complicated things. The number of persons and environments that can do this is probably limited. But it's clear that here, together with the parties, we need to find a way to do it so that the conclusion gets legitimacy. We're all concerned about that. I'm in a hurry to get started. How fast it can be done depends on who will do it, and what time they need. But we're going to work as fast as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e930	This question, from the representative Petter Eide to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Industry on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has been away. The question will be raised by the representative, Mr Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e937	That is true – I have a question that was originally addressed to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, but I, of course, warmly accept answers from the Minister for Industry. ‘The 23rd edition of the UN climate negotiations was concluded last week in Bonn. During the negotiations, Norway received the ‘Fossil of the day’ award from the Climate Action Network, i.e. ‘fossil of the day’ or ‘brake block of the day’, due inter alia to the decision to drill for oil in the Arctic. We know that global greenhouse gas emissions need to decrease. Does the Council of State believe that Norway, which has already been made rich in cooking the globe, has a specific responsibility to cut its greenhouse gas emissions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e946	Industrialised countries such as Norway have a specific responsibility to cut greenhouse gas emissions. This is reflected in our commitments under the UNFCCC as well as in the Paris Agreement. This is why Norway, together with other industrialised countries, is at the forefront of climate change work. Norway has had and has ambitious climate targets. The objective of the Kyoto Agreement for the period 2008 to 2012 was over-fulfilled. By 2020, we have committed ourselves to reducing global greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to 30 pst. of Norway’s 1990 emissions. By 2030, we have a target of reducing emissions by at least 40 pst. We also need to be climate-neutral by 2030, and we have legalised a target for Norway to become a low-carbon society by 2050. Norway’s 2030 targets are based on the best available knowledge available in the Fifth General Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Compared to other OECD countries, our 2030 target is high, if a global, cost-effective and regional allocation of emission reductions is taken into account. It is true that Norway has served well in the petroleum industry. The values of our oil and gas resources have given us the opportunity to build the welfare state we have today, to use considerable resources to reduce emissions in Norway and in other countries, and not least to invest in the development and implementation of technologies that the world needs, if we are to achieve the objective of the Paris Agreement. The significant effort to electrify transport by road and by sea is one example in an area where Norway has gone ahead. Norwegian emissions went down by approx. 1 pst. from 2015 to 2016. One of the main reasons for this is the government's transport policy, where both biofuels and our electric car policy help cut emissions. The decrease in emissions confirms the picture we saw when the new projections were presented in the March press release. This shows that the government's climate policy is effective. When this government joined four years ago, eight million tonnes were missing to reach the Great Britain's ambition for domestic emission reductions in 2020. According to the 2017 Perspective Communication, the distance is now reduced to about three million tonnes. Norway’s international climate action also contributes to significant emission reductions outside Norway. Through the rain forest effort, Norway has paid three countries — Brazil, Guyana and Colombia — to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation equivalent to 250 million tonnes of CO 2. We also pay for measures that reduce emissions in other sectors, and we provide support for adaptation measures and other measures that reduce emissions. These are bets that are in addition to – not in return for – emissions cut here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e966	Thank you very much for your answer. On the government's website, under one issue about climate quotas, it says: ‘Since climate challenges are a global problem, it does not matter whether reductions are taken in China, Indonesia or Norway. The important thing is that global emissions fall overall.’ This seems to be a trend in climate policy that Norway is leading by day, that as long as we pay some small money to other countries so that they can change, we can only drive on here at home. We still remember that it only took one month from Norway to sign the Paris Agreement until a whole bunch of new areas in the Arctic were distributed to the oil industry. If Norway is to be a leading country in the climate, as we have all the opportunities to be, and as new figures on the profitability of fossil energy show that it can be very wise to be, also for reasons other than environmental considerations, we have to go ahead. Does the Council believe that the purchase of climate allowances is as good a contribution to reducing global greenhouse gas emissions as cutting out some of our own oil business would be?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e980	I understand that we have ambitious goals here at home. We also have ambitious goals globally. I think it's very important in this context to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, so we're going to do both, we're not going to do either-- or. With regard to the petroleum policy, I feel that it has a wide lashing in the Stortinget. The size has made decisions that the government has followed up, and it's not about either – or, but about doing both – and we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e987	In addition to creating dangerous greenhouse gas emissions, oil drilling also creates a risk to nature. Oil beer can always occur, and especially in the Arctic it will be extremely harmful, as there is still no method of cleaning oil beer away from ice. There are several vulnerable areas that are involved in oil drilling. Does the Council believe that drilling for oil, for example? beyond the Lofoten, the Vestreålen and Senja could go beyond already existing industries in the area, such as fisheries and tourism?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e994	I feel that we have an oil industry that is the world leader in its technology. We're exporting that technology. Then we very much agree that the world should switch to renewable energy as far as possible. That's our goal. But we know from international studies that, unfortunately, it is not going to happen for many years yet. That means the world also needs fossil energy. Norway has access to cleaner gas and oil than the ones we compete with. Then it is my opinion that it is good for the world to use Norwegian oil and gas – which is cleaner – rather than that of those we compete with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1004	A simple question: ‘What has the Council of State done to follow up the Storting’s request to strengthen the gender equality and discrimination ombudsman’s framework in the 2018 budget according to the needs of the Ombudsman’s resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1011	The Government is now undertaking a comprehensive transition in the field of equality, where the new discrimination title is to take over the tasks of the LDO, the Equal Opportunities and Discrimination Ombudsman, in terms of enforcing the Equality and Discrimination Act. The conversion is demanding, but necessary, and I am glad that the Christian People's Party would support this when the matter was dealt with in the Stortingen this spring. This is necessary because we have ambitions for a more powerful representative and a better enforcement apparatus. When we move tasks, the money must also follow. Therefore, the Ombudsman’s budget has been adjusted in the draft state budget for 2018, and we have close dialogue with the Ombudsman on the resource situation. The equality officer shall become clearer in his driving role and the Ombudsman shall continue to provide information and guidance on the law. The handling of complaints should be speeded up because it is about the rights of the victim and there should be consequences for discrimination. In addition, we will be given more effective protection of discrimination when the new denominator is now given the power to impose upliftment. The overall appropriations for driving and enforcement tasks in the field of gender equality have been continued in the Government's proposals for the 2018 government budget. As a result of the transfer of law enforcement from the Ombudsman to the new denominator, we propose a reduction in the Ombudsman’s allocation of 12.2 million. kr, against a corresponding increase in the budget of the Discrimination Board. The reduction is equivalent to 12 years of work and is based on an estimate of the cost to the Ombudsman of solving enforcement-related tasks. Estimates are also made in consultation with the Equality Ombudsman. The Government also proposes to increase the Ombudsman’s appropriations by 1.2 million. kr in the new age of 2017, and the funds used for the conversion of the Ombudsman and for actions that can help to continue the strong professional environment of the Ombudsman. The changes in enforcement and enforcement tasks in the field of gender equality will enter into force on 1 January next year, and we will follow the situation and developments both within the Ombudsman and in the name of closeness and ensure that both have sufficient resources to perform their tasks properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1024	Thanks for the answer. A prerequisite for the Christian People's Party to at all be involved in separating the driving role and the enforcement apparatus was that the Equality Ombudsman should be strengthened from this. When the budget was presented, we saw no such strengthening. Another factor is that the new Equality and Discrimination Act also includes discrimination against older people as an important area, which the Equality Ombudsman also has to follow up and follow up on. Does the Council of State think that adding more tasks to what LDO is supposed to have a driving role for, that it can do so, that you can only add new elements without requiring more resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1033	I understand Bekkevold's questions, and as I said in my previous reply, I am pleased that the Christian People's Party saw the importance of putting in place a strengthened enforcement apparatus. It was too long a waiting time for the matter to be dealt with in the previous mention, and now, with a new and strengthened mention, I believe that we are getting down the processing time, and we are now also given the opportunity to give up. The equality officer shall have a driving role. We need to be a clear, clear voice, we need to operate with information and guidance and the driving role, and that will also be important in relation to the new forms of discrimination introduced into the new law. I hope the representative understands that this law and a new note will come into force on 1 January 2018, and that it is therefore too early to say now whether this will require increased resources for the Ombudsman and mention. But I can promise the representative that this is a work that we will follow closely, because it is important now to put in place a good driving role in the Ombudsman and a good denominator that should be able to enforce the Discrimination Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1042	Again: Thank you for your answer. There is no doubt that the Christian People's Party has supported the work that has now been done, but it was, as I said, a prerequisite that the driving role should be strengthened out of this as well. Then I hear there's an item on the balance of the budget. It is good, but it is equally important that the Council of State is in close dialogue with the Ombudsman. And I think the #metoo campaign is an example that there's so much going on out there that makes the need for a strong and up-to-date LDO will only be even more required in the future. So I hope that the Council of State is in close dialogue, so that the decision of the Grand Duchy's request is actually followed up as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1051	I also think that this #metoo campaign shows how important it is that we have a strong representative who has an important driving role. The double role that the Ombudsman has today, being both a pusher and a law enforcement agent, can sometimes become a conflict. That's why I hope and believe that the new organisation that we get in place from next year will strengthen both the name and the representative. Then I can assure the representative that the process we are in now, which is necessary, but also demanding, is done in close cooperation with the Equality Ombudsman. And the reorganisations that have now been carried out are also based on the figures that the ombudsman has recorded in the ministry. But this is a matter that we will follow closely when this comes into force too fully from next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1058	The next questioner is currently not present in the room, so we have to move on to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1066	This question, from the representative Emilie Enger Mehl to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative Per Martin Sandtrøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1071	‘A national system for the record-keeping of patients shall be established in the event of transfer and cessation of activity. The Government has put forward proposals for a new scheme without the conclusion of who will be responsible for the practical implementation. The investigation mission of the Directorate-General for Health has allowed a deadline of 1 March 2018. There it points to Norwegian health records on Tynset as a natural alternative. Will the government provide a solution where the national scheme is operated under public control?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1078	The Government will establish a national system for the retention of patient records in the event of transfers and cessation of activities in the healthcare sector. Today, the records are handed over to the statesmen, which is not very effective. A national scheme will be resource-saving and will make it easier for patients and health professionals to access relevant health information. The new scheme presupposes some legislative changes, which are now being dealt with by the Storting. Provided that the Stortinget adopts the legislative changes, the Ministry will adopt regulatory changes. Among other things, we aim to add data processing responsibility to the Directorate for Health. The Ministry assumes that the directorate will agree with a processor to operate and operate the scheme in a practical way. Norwegian health records at Tynset are one of the candidates for the task of data processing. One of the main tasks of the health archive is to transfer paper files to digital media, which requires proper equipment and competence. It can therefore be effective to add this task as a data processor to the Norwegian health archive. In order to ensure that we choose the best and most effective solution, the Ministry has asked the Health Directorate to identify the tasks and processes required by the new national scheme. The investigation shall be carried out in cooperation with the Norwegian health archive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1089	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I notice that he says that it can be effective to add the task of computerizing to Norwegian health records. I wonder if the Council of State can tell at what time he sees that a new national system can be realized, and whether this is a task that, if given to the Norwegian health archive, will be added, and not compensated for, already adopted tasks for the Norwegian health archive, so that it will also follow with increased resources to solve this task.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1096	The time perspective is that we'll get the investigation from the Directorate in February, and then we're dependent on Storting's treatment of the bill. What is quite clear is that this will be a task that will be added to tasks that are already intended for Norwegian health archives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1101	In a press release from the government on 6 October last year, they write among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The National Library and the Swedish Archives have a common responsibility for the national memory and protect Norway’s overall works and history. Administrative, public and private documents and archives shall be preserved for an eternity.» For the time being, Norwegian health records have been held responsible for storing hospital records. Can the Council of State tell how he assesses the need for the storage of records from the local health service? And does he realize that this can be a task it can be natural to give to Norwegian health archives?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1111	I can't answer the specific question on the standing foot. The original task of the Norwegian health archives, that is, the core task, is to maintain patient records for patients who have died, while the task on which the question is based today is about records of patients who will be alive, but where the healthcare system has ceased, and thus the records are handed over. That means that these journals have slightly different functions. That is also why we have arranged for the Health Directorate to have the role of authority instead of the county officials. But then we look at the possibility that Norwegian health records should be able to handle the practical implementation of this. The question of whether this should also include municipal archives is something we may need to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1123	‘National overdose strategy will end in 2017. The aim of the strategy was to reduce the number of drug deaths. The destination has not been reached. The number of people who died of overdose in 2014 was 266. The number of people who died of overdose in 2015 was 289. According to Sintef’s report ‘Community mental health and drug work 2016’, a majority of municipalities lack procedures for the follow-up of patients who have been admitted to suicide attempts and overdoses. Will the Council of State ensure the continuation of national overdose strategy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1130	Reducing the number of overdoses is an important measure of government. For many years Norway has been high in the international statistics on the number of overdose deaths. Therefore, the government launched a four-year national overdose strategy for the period 2014–2017. One of the measures was to establish a test project with the distribution of naloxone nasal spray in Oslo and Bergen. From 2014 until the end of 2016 it has been distributed approx. 4000 nasal sprays. At the base of 600 sprays was used in acute situations. There's reason to believe that the nasal spray has saved lives. An important explanation of the high rates of overdose deaths is that most opiate addicts in Norway inject heroin. Smoking heroin poses a minimal risk of overdose. The SWITCH campaign is therefore an action that has led to a higher proportion of opiate addicts smoking heroin, as has been seen in many other European countries. Another measure is the pilot municipality project. There, the nine municipalities with the highest number of overdoses have merged to draw up plans and measures to reduce the number of overdoses. It is great that municipalities take such initiatives, and they need advice and guidance in such work. Today, the Health Directorate is launching a national guide for municipalities on how to deal with the problem of overdose. The municipalities that have established their own lowthreshold measures for the most deprived have established their own network to develop and improve the provision of this group of drug addicts. As is known, the risk of overdose is very high in the transition from prison to community. In the government’s national return strategy, which is supported by five ministries, the aim is to provide such follow-up after release from prison to all convicted offenders in need of follow-up from emergency services. Work on reducing overdose deaths is a long-term work. Over the period 2010–2015, there have been slightly more than 250 overdose deaths per year in Norway. The figures for 2016 are not yet available but will be published in December. There is reason to believe that the figures would have been higher if the measures in the overdose strategy had not been implemented. It is therefore important that work continues to reduce overdoses. The appropriations for the Health Directorate will continue, and the measures I have mentioned will be continued and extended.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1147	My question was whether the Council of State would further pursue the strategy of overdose that expires in 2017. As I understand the answer, the government will not continue the overdose strategy, but the measures that are there today will be financed, at least until further notice. We lose five people in the week in Norway in druginduced deaths. The size adopted a zero vision in 2013. This is a group that we know we can do more for. I don't fully understand the argument that one of them should end a strategy, so I'd like to hear more about why the government thinks it makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1154	What I said was that the measures in the strategy will both be continued and expanded. This is what is in practice important in municipalities and out of the area where overdose deaths occur. We also depend on looking at the results, for example. for 2016, to see the impact of the strategy, so I need to wait for it before an assessor assesses whether to continue the strategy that it has, or whether to establish a new strategy, with new measures. We are now in a phase-out plan for the drug field, where each year we allocate significant amounts to the municipalities to expand precisely the type of measures that prevent overdose deaths. During 2018, we will introduce package trajectories for the drug field, which will also be important in the transition between treatment and provision in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1161	A Document 8 proposal has been submitted to the Stortinget from representatives of the Labour Party to continue such a strategy. I'm going to assume that there can be a great deal of commitment on the Storting just to get these measures into a strategy, and not that this should just be carried on and expanded, but that the Storting knows what the government will do to bring down the number of overdose deaths. Is it possible for the Council of State to consider the need to evaluate the overdose strategy? Will he be able to come to the Storting with what concrete measures to put in place? And is the Council of State happy with the outcome of the strategy that is now coming to an end?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1166	In terms of results, we don't have numbers later than 2015 – we only have numbers for the first two years of the strategy. I'm not satisfied with those results. That's why I'm very excited about the figures for 2016, which comes in December. With regard to the measures in the strategy, I think there is reason to be satisfied with many of them. These we see that obviously have had results, for example. distribution of naloxone nasal spray, which is now extended to several municipalities. All measures of the strategy are continued. For all practical purposes, it means that the strategy will work in 2017. The question of whether to continue this strategy or develop a new strategy, I will decide when to see a little more of the results, including: for 2016. But this is the government's strategy, it is not a strategy that has been dealt with in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1173	We go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1181	«Health North and Health West also have open electronic records in the BUP. Parents have e-transparency – they can log directly into their home and read what the journal says – ‘for children under the age of 12. Children and young people say that it is not safe for parents to read on the Internet what they have talked to their treatment about. “Handlers can screen something from e-inspection, but it is up to each and every processor after every hour, which is a very vulnerable system. Does the Council of State consider that parents should have electronic access to the journal of children under 12 years of age in mental health protection?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1188	Transparency in own patient records is a fundamental patient right. Before the patient reaches the age of 16, parents — as a general rule — have such access rights on behalf of their child. The law emphasises parental responsibility, and it is important that parents receive information in order to be able to follow their child as closely as possible. In principle, the younger the child, the more important it is that caregivers are given careful and good information about the help given to the child. From the age of 12 years onwards, there is a derogation from the obligation to inform the parents when the child has reasons which should be respected. In the summer following the initiative of that government, the size decided on a new exemption from the obligation to inform the parents, which shall also apply when the child is less than 12 years old. This derogation shall apply where there are serious grounds for objecting to informing the child’s parents. Electronic services to facilitate the transparency of patient records are basically good for the patient. Such services shall be complementary and shall not replace other means of accessing the file. I believe that special care should be taken if parents are to have electronic access to the journal notes when children under the age of 12 receive mental health care. I would like to emphasise the importance of ensuring that health professionals – based on a health assessment – the interests of the child and what is best for him or her. This applies both when such a service is introduced and when health professionals consider which journal notes should be made electronically available to parents. The Health Directorate and the e-Health Directorate have briefed health regions on the reasons for the introduction of such access services. This applies, inter alia, to: assessment of the adequacy, best interests of children, limitations of transparency and the importance of training and guidance to health professionals to assess the information to be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1201	I thank you for your answer. That people should have insight into their own journal, we all agree, and SV supports it during the digitisation process that makes it possible. But now we're talking about a very special field: mental health protection, child and youth psychiatry. The Council of State rightly says that some of the rules have changed, so that serious consideration can cause the journal to be closed. However, often the caregiver does not understand the signals given by children and young people. Health Nord himself says in his risk assessment that this is dangerous, because there are very few children who in their first meeting with his therapist sit down and tell about violence and abuse at home – if that is the situation. But those who are at home, who can read the journal right out on the Internet, can understand where the child is going, and what it's saying. It will make it very dangerous for children when they get home, and will make children close. Or if the child knows about this in advance, it won't tell. We all agree that parents should be able to have insight and support about their children, but I did not get an answer to my question, because what I'm asking is whether the Minister of Health believes that parents should still be able to log on to the Internet and read directly from the patient records for mental health protection for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1210	The rules relating to access are the same if the information is written on paper or electronically. That's the starting point. This type of assessment needs to be addressed specifically by health professionals in relation to each individual child. Health Nord has communicated very clearly internally that it is better to refuse transparency once too much than once too little. It is also important that treatment staff work up their trust in the child early on, for example. to talk to the child about whether it is okay for parents to get information or not. It'll be very quick to be an indicator of whether this is the basis for a non-entry of information in the journal. The main response to this challenge cannot be to refuse the use of digital solutions, but, as with paper solutions, it is necessary to use the regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1217	On paper – and here from Stortinget – the rules may look the same for paper and electronic transparency. But in the real world, it's not equal. First, because when you have to search for transparency in order to send papers on your child’s mental health records, the threshold is much higher to ask. They can't log in from home from the living room. Secondly, if someone asks for transparency in the mental health records on paper, the therapists we're talking to say that you think about an extra time to make sure it's safe. It is quite another thing to have a safe review when someone asks for access to the paper file, than that someone can sit at home in the living room, log in and check on what little children talk to their therapists about in the child and youth psychiatry. SV will address this matter and will propose to ensure that parents are not able to read directly in the journal of children under mental health protection. Will the Minister of Health support SV in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1226	I think it is wise for health professionals to think through this issue in meeting each and every child and not think that the problem can be resolved if they get a desire for insight from their parents. This is one of the things that has been a major challenge in this area, and that was also the background to my tightening up the law in this area. Had good practice been practised, it would not really have been necessary to tighten up the law, but the law was necessary to improve the position in the service related to these issues. It doesn't depend on whether parents have access to digitally or not, but it's a lot about the trust you build on the child, and the way you handle this kind of information – regardless of whether the information is available digitally or not. I believe that the answer to this is simply a question of having a completely different basic position in relation to children in this service and their relationship with parents – regardless of the solutions used.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1241	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1249	The following question concerns sexual harassment in the cultural sector. We have recorded that the Council of State has met with cultural actors and will mention sexual harassment in letters of assignment. It is well and good to have meetings, but it is more demanded from the cultural sector, and I notice that there is no rice behind the mirror when it comes to the letters of allocation. That is why I allow myself to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘Recently, there have been extensive and serious revelations of sexual harassment in the cultural sector in particular. At the same time, the Council of State has stated that increasing funds to work towards this or quota to address the human dominance at the top of the sector is not the solution. Neither is a musical alliance with fixed employment between missions for freelancers, which may give the security to say so, relevant. What, then, does the Council of State do about concrete measures in cultural life to combat sexual harassment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1258	I would like to start by saying that I am pleased that the representative of Hövstegård puts this matter on the agenda in Stortinget. I also think it is important that the country's National Assembly shows outside that what has happened in the #metoo campaign is something that politicians take seriously, and that we have the opportunity to discuss it in this room. It's shocking and bad reports we've been witnessing lately about the working environment in many industries. Not least, attention has been focused on the cultural sector, and it turns out that sexual harassment is a major problem for our artists in many parts of cultural life. Norway's high school of music and other colleges of art are under the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge, while cultural institutions and the free field depend on funding and governance signals from the Ministry of Culture and the Norwegian Council of Culture. I want to say that the Ministry of Culture, the Norwegian Film Institute, the professional organisations in the film field, the Norwegian Theatre and Orchestra Association and all theatre and film companies are absolutely crucial to contributing to changing attitudes in cultural life. There is no change either if we, as the authority and employers, do not see our responsibility, our influence and position as the ruler, and do something. It is quite right that the representative refers to. In the last few days, I've had a number of meetings with different parts of the cultural field. I will continue to have meetings with those who also have a great deal of responsibility for the employer. I have to say that I was reassured and very satisfied with the measures that the actors refer to. One thing is the reporting and low threshold for employees and freelancers to come and tell about critical circumstances, but not least I think it was very good to hear the seriousness they show by addressing this, prioritizing it and taking action also in terms of cultural changes and attitudes. I think in many ways this #metoo campaign is a turning point, and that there will be a time gap before and after, because to a much greater extent there will be an idea that unacceptable behavior should be good to say from about to a much greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1267	As I said, it is good with these meetings and to stress the responsibilities and responsibilities of employers, for example. The Culture Council or other actors. So we agree that those actors are taking this seriously. But what concerns me more and more is lack of action at political level, when the Council of State rejects a series of measures proposed by both us and cultural life. Own resources for work against sexual harassment in cultural life have been rejected. Quotation to do something about the human dominance at the top of some parts of cultural life has also been rejected. And the proposal to create a musical alliance for freelancers so that they get stronger rights and protection, for example. in the case of sexual harassment, the State Council has rejected Hofstad Greece on the grounds that the field has not requested this. But the field is now clear in its speech. Five major music organisations are asking this week in a letter to the Council of State and the Ministry of State for funds for action in Balance Art to work against sexual harassment, i.e. funds. In the Newspaper on 15 November, the Music Society goes out with me and asks for a musical alliance. Will the State Council reconsider these measures, or does it have any other justification for its opposition to them?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1274	I don't have any resistance to taking action, but unlike SV, I don't think all the major challenges and problems we see in front of us are solved with more money. Sexual harassment and unwanted sexual attention at work are about much more serious things than putting in measures and thinking that you're just solving it with more money. It's about changing a culture that's established. It's about changing attitudes. It may seem very easy to suggest more money and think that the problems are solved by it. But then I think we're just doing ourselves a bear service. Now we have to go inside ourselves and look at how we, as fellow humans, stand up for each other, and change into a culture that makes it legitimate to say from when unwanted behavior is experienced at the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1279	Yes, we need to change attitudes, I totally agree with that. But changing attitudes requires systematic work to do so. I have very great faith in the industry and the industries and the whole sector's willingness to do something about this today. But to do something about this, you need money, your feedback. That's why I'm worried when you don't want to give the framework needed to work systematically on this over time. These five music organizations have asked for a three-year-old project together with Balance Art, just to change attitudes, as the Council of State says. So I have to ask the question again: why don't I have the funds to work with attitudes? Once again, I would like to stress that, in the case of a written response from the Council of State, it is earlier to establish a musical alliance, which may be important to strengthen the rights of freelances, for example. in the face of sexual harassment, the reason was that the musicians had not asked for this. Now they're asking for it, will the Council of State review it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1284	I have to say that I believe the proposals for massive quotas in all industries and all fields – or more money – can seem to be good solutions, but I think we're doing ourselves a bear service, because the problem we're facing here is more complex than that. If one assumes that a great deal of resources must be given to raising awareness, and that this is very important, I believe that we need to look at our own budgets and spend money on it. And then I also see that such an alliance can be an alternative. But I have not been asked to take such an initiative, and I have not received such a proposal on my table.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1295	‘The Wärnes have significant available capacity today’, the government wrote in its long-term defence plan in June 2016 as a justification for bringing together the school activity of the Air Force. The changes were declared to give rise to an investment need of 270 million. kr. Has Guards continued to have ‘significantly available capacity’ and is still required to invest 270 million. kr?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1302	It's true, as it's said, that the government of Prop. 151 S for 2015–2016 proposed to co-locate the main weight of Air Force school activity to the Trøndelags region and to establish the Air Force School Centre Værnes. The size joined the proposal at the time of examination of the Innst. 62 S for 2016-2017. Studies carried out by property, construction and facilities in the Værnes garrison confirm that there is considerable vacant capacity and area on site. With regard to the cost picture of the transfer of Air Force school activity, nothing has been achieved at this stage to address the estimated investment need of approximately 270 million. kr. At the same time, I must be allowed to point out that the cost estimate will normally need to be quality assured and further concreteised in order to reduce uncertainty, which is a natural and integral part of the preparation of the more detailed decision-making framework for individual projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1311	The fact that there are now several American soldiers who practice with us does not lead to a shortage. There is still the same capacity on Värnes to take more of the business there without it costing anything extra, as I understand the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1316	Alliert training is an important part of our long-term planning and an important part of our alliance work. What will determine any need will be whether it's ally training when we're going to move on with the next phase of EBA on the Guards. The crews that are there today occupy some premises, but there is a training that has been decided for shorter periods at a time. There will be two decisions that have to be seen against each other in the future, whether there should be allied training using the premises that were quite properly available in the past, and how we should view it in relation to the change process we have started.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1321	Why hasn't the Minister of Defense informed the Storting about it? If this training is to take place over a longer period of time, as the Storting imposes on the government, it is a substantial change in the decision-making basis. Then it has to be built more, and then it becomes more than 270 million. kr. So it's going to be much more expensive than what the government originally showed. The question is, why has the Storting not been informed about it? It was a clear premise in the long-term plan. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1326	It is in no way such that there is a collision with regard to the plans for allied training currently available and the changes that will bring about the alternative use of EBA on Guards. We're going to have those premises ready at the end of 2018, and it's not that it's decided that there should be an ally training to use those premises at the end of 2018. We plan in parallel, and if there is a need to make changes, we will of course come back to the Storting and inform about it. But as of today, no allier training has been decided on the Guards who in time collide with the plans we put into the long-term plan to establish an education on the Guards and use the vacant premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1334	I will ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘There is strong resistance to the government’s move of the Army’s helicopter and the closure of the 339-square drone on Bardufoss. Without a helicopter, the Army will lose the possibility to, among others. strategic movement of soldiers and equipment, to evacuate injured soldiers in a good way and to operate reconnaissance and control. Can the Council of State set an example in a NATO country that he thinks has an equally strong defence that Norway has as ambition to have, and that has not dedicated helicopter to its army?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1343	First, I have to be allowed to open up by saying that I am very happy that there seems to be an agreement on the land-use proposition here in Stortinget. That's good. Even the Minister of Defence has recorded that there has been a great debate and great resistance to many of the changes that have occurred. We have recorded that, and we have participated in the debate on why priority is given to this. As for the way the representative builds up this issue, I disagree with the premise on the issue, because the development of the defence must be based on what is most appropriate for Norway — not on the basis of how other countries have chosen to set up their structures. That's why we've recommended bringing together the Bell 412 helicopters on the Back, as a dedicated helicopter support for the special forces. Today's situation is that Bell 412 stationed at Bardufoss and at Rygge with duties for both the Army and the Special Forces, in addition to providing emergency services for the police both places. This has extended the resources so far that Bell 412 has in practice not been able to provide full support to either the Army or the Special Forces at the same time as the emergency requirements are to be met. Helicopters are not optimally exploited with today's solution. That's why we have a recommendation based on a recognition of this situation and a prioritisation of the special forces. Our recommendation is also based on professional-military advice. The Chief of Defence's recommendation in 2015 was clear – as was the recommendation in the Landmaktuträdning in 2017. Now the majority of the Storting has come up with a different solution. Yesterday it became clear that the majority of the committee wants to maintain a shared solution between Bardufoss and Rygge with local management two places. We take note of that, and I'm going to take this back to the department and see how we can best follow up on this work. We will continue to strengthen our defence capabilities. That's our main goal. The Government recommends several measures to increase the operational capability of the Army. We strengthen the Army with modern capabilities, where we prioritise the capabilities that the professional military recommendations say are most important. Every country with a modern defense must make the balances and priorities that they themselves believe are important, and it is just such an image that comes when we see how different nations have organized their helicopter operations. Some nations have dedicated helicopters to the army, but most have helicopters that can cover several purposes. National characteristics give rise to different needs for helicopter capacity and its organisation. In Norway, we approach an army of three mechanized battalions. Comparing ourselves with other nations requires that we compare ourselves to nations that have an army equal to ours, if it should have any relevance. Nevertheless, it would mean little about quality and access to helicopters what kind of other resources a country's defense can attract. A particular feature of Norway is, among other things: the possibility of drawing on the total resources of society when necessary, and that we should also look at the possibility of using civil capacity in the north. We continue to strengthen our defence capabilities step by step, and our priorities are based on what we think is Norway's needs and Norway's prerequisites for creating good defence capabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1362	I thank you for the answer, and I'm recording that one was unable to identify other countries that haven't dedicated helicopter to their armies. In the agreement entered into yesterday, it was also opened for the rental of tanks. The reason given by the Right-Hårek Rivers is, among other things, that the tanks currently on the market for purchase are too heavy. Of course, they are heavy to tolerate being shot at by other war chariots – and it is as important in Germany as in Finnmark. A tank with ammunition will weigh approx. 64 tonnes, approx. 1 tonne lighter in peacetime without ammunition. U.S. Army’s pre-loaded wagons weigh approx. 68 tonnes. If the Council of State and the Right don't want to bet on Leopard because of its own weight, it's a bad thing that we're also betting on the help of NATO, which has heavier tanks. Does the Council see that one here has bad arguments, and will he tell the real reason why one does not want to start the process of buying new tanks? If one is to wait for new technology, one can wait in the infinite, because there are still new technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1371	The evaluation in the long-term plan — the financial assessments and the operational assessments — is about planning long-term, planning for and prioritising more solutions. In the investigation into the land force proposition, it was concluded that the upgrade program that had been carried out on the old wagons would not give us the capacity to fight and defend in the future. That's why we're looking at other possibilities now. We're going to take the deal that was made in Stortinget and the attitude that has come down with us and look at what it basically involves, and then we're going to sketch out good solutions to it. However, there is a basis for professional judgement in terms of both weight, fighting ability and other material in the run-up to time. That's what's the reason for the change in the land-use proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1386	A few years ago, the defense assessed the leasing of tanks. Then one came to the conclusion that it was too expensive and too bad. The centre party is not opposed to a leaser fighting vehicle during a transitional period in order to get them in quickly, but one must start the process of buying own tanks in parallel. So, the government wants to hire private helicopters to the Army and hire/leases fighting vehicles to the Army – perhaps for many years, because nothing has been said about how long this is going to last. This is especially in the NATO alliance, from such a large country as Norway despite everything is in NATO context. When the government also in practice puts down the 2nd Battalion, a question has to be asked whether a soldier should also be hired. We have been informed that there is no room for battle groups on Skold because of EBA. The government must have three months to count the beds and the barracks in order to answer us if there is room. Does not the government have an overview of EBA on Shield so that one can respond to this before the debate on Tuesday, December 5th – whether there is room for a battlegroup on Shield?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1391	Here I must also be allowed to correct the premise for the question – to the extent that I was able to pick up only one question from the representative. We have also replied that it will be possible to create part of a battalion and at the same time operate the recruiting school we are going to Skjold, with existing premises. What underpins planning and priorities are economic priorities – what we should spend money on in the future. With regard to the second part of the premise for the question to the representative, who is dealing with tanks, it is not right that we do not plan for what kind of tank capacity we should have in the future. That's what's going on right now. We're out checking what's available. We're out there to see what might be possible. Leasing/lending may be an option, but such agreements are usually conditional. And we'd like to think about that before we conclude. I don't think we should let the representative get away with that we're not doing anything. It is a continuous process in which we provide knowledge and offer suggestions in the course of the process for the benefit of Norway and the defence force.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1405	‘Local units in Oslo Police District have been told to reduce the number of stays before the end of the year. The result is that things with a known perpetrator are also being blamed. Things that had previously been investigated in Asker and Bærum are now being posted, and the trusted alerts that the threshold to assist the audience has become higher. Is the Council of State in agreement with this assessment and does he consider it acceptable that cases should be instituted to reach the target number of recoveries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1412	As Minister of Justice and Defence, I am concerned that the Norwegian police and prosecution authorities will be the best possible. I am particularly concerned about the quality of the police investigation work. It is important for me to stress that it is not acceptable to impose criminal cases which are about reaching targets for criminal offences. As both my predecessor and I have underlined, it is important to reduce the number of settlements of cases with an allegedly known perpetrator due to a lack of procedural capacity. This is something that rocks people's sense of justice. I have also recently clarified the position in my written replies to the Stortinget, which dealt with the same issue. Oslo police districts have implemented several measures — both organisationally and operationally — to improve overall quality of police services for the population. As the Oslo Police Commissioner also points out, citizens of the Oslo area now have access to stronger professional environments and resources. They also have a police force that has an enhanced capacity to handle work in several important areas, such as: efforts against radicalisation, serious crime and major adverse events. It is important to bring it with you, but it is also important to stress that it is the police chief in Oslo who is responsible for the total problem-solving in the district. This means that he must make the best possible use of his resources, for the benefit of the people of the entire police district. In this context, he is also responsible for prioritising various criminal cases within the overall leadership in criminal proceedings. The police officer has informed me that, in a transitional phase, Oslo Police District has chosen to settle minor and curative cases in order to bring down the remains, and has assured me that this will only apply for a shorter period of time, until the newly established joint criminal investigation and the introduction of new working methods, such as on-site police work, have been settled. In dealing with individual cases in criminal matters, the prosecution authorities are independent and cannot be instructed by political authorities. Whether an individual case is filed and on what basis are prosecution issues, which fall within the scope of the prosecution authority. I am therefore pleased that the national lawyer has asked Oslo State Attorney's Office to follow the police district's capacity allocation practice in its ongoing dialogue with police department management.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1425	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State starts by being very clear and saying that the practice that is taking place is not acceptable. It's not acceptable to resolve cases that have a known perpetrator, to bring down the target. After such a clear signal, there was a lot of self-confidence about how he believed that security had improved, while the trustees said that the threshold to assist the audience has become higher. The reality speaks for itself, when you can report that you're going to have 100 stays over the next month, before Christmas, and that you're just going to have 160 cases at the turn of the year. I also hear the State Council say the same thing as the prosecutor in the Oslo police district says, that this should only apply for a short, short period of time – it is underlined that this should only apply for a short period of time. What I want to get an answer from the Council of State is what he means by a short period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1432	In it it must be obvious that this is fast transitory. So it's like -- as it's important for me to stress -- here the representative is trying to give the impression that this is something that I, politically, can override. This is not the case in the case of individual cases. These are prosecution decisions, where political instructions are limited to the overall leadership. And there we are very clear: things with a known perpetrator should not initially be settled, there should be very good reasons for that. The situation with regard to processing capacity is not necessarily a good one. That's exactly why I'm pleased that the National Attorney General has asked the State Attorney's Office in Oslo to follow the practice of the instructions that have been made, for the overall, clear leadership is that you should not settle matters with a known perpetrator.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1439	When I hear the Council of State now, I hear a Council of State pushing over the responsibility of those who are under him. The Council of State has the top responsibility for the budgets, such as: The police officers have to deal with. The budgets are now too small. They are such that the action space with which the police officers are sitting is about where the cuts are to be taken. My question to the Council of State is therefore just about the tough priorities that have to be made in the police districts, whether the Council of State believes that police districts have budgets that are good enough, or whether more free resources should be given to the police officers, so that they could give priority to the kind of work to be done, precisely in order to be able to do what the Council of State says he agrees to, namely that no matter with a known perpetrator is to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1446	I often find it relatively astonishing to listen to the opposition's claims regarding the strengthening of the police. So there has been a historic strengthening of the Norwegian police under this government. We have reversed a trend that the previous government did not take seriously – where the police were not adequately strengthened – a historical strengthening financially, but also personneled. Oslo police districts are among the police districts that have received the most and the largest share of the new posts now established in the police. It is historical, so the resource situation is a very poor reason: to claim that issues are settled because of the resource situation, simply does not keep water. I also note that with the good agreement underpinned in the 2018 budget, further strengthening of the police through, in particular, human resources, which will also help Oslo police districts. Oslo Police District has seen a strong increase in this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1456	‘The government has indicated the need for an environmental number two in Norway to carry out DNA analyses for use in criminal justice. In 2014, the Government Parties and the Left voted against a proposal from the Workers' Party to use the accredited Judicial Genetics Centre at the Arctic University of UiT Norway for this purpose. The government's reason was to open up private actors to this work. So far, the government doesn't seem to have succeeded in this. Can the Council of State explain where the matter is?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1463	As the representative is known and as indicated in Innst. 59 S for 2014–2015, facilitating the use of multiple environments for DNA analyses has been government policy for a long time. We do not want to make a categorical distinction between public and private suppliers when they are accredited. The Government has been engaged in competition on this market and in providing equal opportunities for participation, as requested by a majority of the Grand Duchy. I believe that the Police Directorate and the police must make a professional assessment based on their analytical needs and in relation to their own processes in order to achieve this objective. In this connection, I also refer to the Sylvi Listhaug State Council's answer to questions from the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen in Stortinget's Question Time on 9 November 2016. Both the implementation process and models have been investigated and are now subject to review and quality assurance in the Directorate of Police. I would also like to remind you that today's system solutions in the police in connection with DNA analyses are tailored for the use of only one supplier. Access for several suppliers requires inter alia: changes in the basic settlement for police criminal proceedings, BL. Strict and targeted prioritisation of the development portfolio in the Police Directorate, including: in connection with the follow-up to the near-police reform has resulted in delays in this work. This has led to the start-up failure during 2017 as announced in Prop. 1 S for 2016-2017. Police are well-known in the midst of a demanding reform to further develop police structures and improve public services. In order to meet the objectives and requirements set for the implementation of the close police reform, priority must be given to reform efforts, which will have to go beyond other tasks. This applies, inter alia, to: assessment and, where appropriate, provision of facilities for several suppliers to provide police DNA analyses. It can also be added that the treatment time for DNA analyses has declined in recent years. This type of analysis is thus no longer restrictive to the police’s work. It is important that we pay the highest attention to the implementation of the close police reform and not too many parallel processes and activities that challenge the continuity of operations in the implementation of the reform. In the light of other more urgent tasks in the police, the launch of the multi-supplier system of DNA analyses is deferred. The further progress of this work is assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1476	I thank you for your answer. The government has often mentioned the accredited private laboratory Gena in Stavanger, which could be a desirable partner in the work. That laboratory has now been shut down. What other private actors does the government consider to be capable of contributing? Do you want to see if there are private actors who find reason to establish themselves here at home, or do you want to outsource this service?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1483	There are no formal legal or regulatory barriers to the use by police and prosecution authorities of other accredited providers of legal genetic services where the police consider it necessary. It may also be relevant in connection with so-called second opinion. However, there are technical and systemic limitations for others to be able to deliver in the same way as today’s supplier. The report prepared in 2013 under the previous government showed that the RGS had to upgrade and upgrade if they were to go into full production. Any reduction of the existing environment at Oslo University Hospital in favour of building a new public environment will not necessarily provide more cost-effective solutions, but competition in the market is an advantage and private operators should also be able to be accredited. I would also draw the representative's attention to EEA rules, which could also be challenged for Norway with regard to foreign suppliers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1490	In view of the experience we have had in outsourceing ICT services from Health South-East, where sensitive patient information was exposed to the transparency of outsiders, does the Council of State really think that it is wise to operate ideological buyers in this field only in order to be able to send DNA material from Norwegian citizens to private laboratories in other countries, when we actually have a fully-fledged public academic environment here at home that can perform the service?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1495	I'm not at all interested in driving any political chauffeurs in this context. On the contrary, there's something that's important, and that has to be in the front in every context, it's security. I fully agree with the representative in the sense that too little attention has been paid to the security of outsourcing important services – whether to the rest of the world or to private actors domestically. We have to have that security at the bottom. That is why I believe that we need to go through the rules for outsourcing in the public sector, assess the need to tighten it up by means of the Security Act, and I also believe that we need to strengthen the focus of managers in businesses, both private and public, on the responsibility of outsourcing services. Here, security will always be the first, but then it is a fact that at the moment you go out to several operators in a market, you will also be able to challenge EEA rules if you do not at the same time open up competition across borders. But in any case, it is fundamental that security on the provision of ICT services must be at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1505	‘The resource situation in the criminal justice system goes from bad to worse in the budgetary settlement. It is now proposed to cut another 10 million. kr for operation. How will the Council of State ensure proper criminal justice, and how will the Council of State reduce the number of violence and threats reported to employees today?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1512	The government granted 10 million. DKr for temporary duplication of 50 prison sites in order to increase prison capacity in 2014. The background to the allocation was long pay queue, which in 2014 amounted to more than 1 000 judges, and a large shortage of prison places. Thus, prisons were given the opportunity to increase their capacity by allowing two prisoners in some cases to share a room initially calculated for one. Today, the pay queue has been closed in practice, and there are currently slightly lower levels of cover in prisons. We therefore do not see the same need to maintain the double locations and therefore choose to remove the temporary allocation. However, I understand that the budgetary situation and budget cuts resulting from the red tape and efficiency reform are perceived as challenging for criminal justice. At the same time, criminal services are expected to implement the measures needed to improve their effectiveness. Despite cutbacks in the context of the ABE reform, there does not appear to be any significant changes in the number of year-olds in the execution of sentences per prison. There are also no reports of less activation in prisons now than when the ABE reform was introduced. Safety considerations shall always be the first. I am therefore closely following developments in violence and threats. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare has recorded an increase in the number of cases of violence and threats to employees in recent years. The Ministry of Justice and Defence follows developments and has good dialogue with the Directorate of Criminal Affairs on this. The Directorate shall have, inter alia: work towards looking at reporting procedures and measures to help address and combat violence and threats to employees. As a result, the Directorate has also drawn up an action plan which, hopefully, will contribute to a better situation in the future. Let me add: the development of violence and threats seems to have stopped. I'm very happy about that. We're going to follow it very closely. We put measures in place, and I feel that it is positively accepted by the employees. This is strongly focused on both myself and the directorate. We are not going to accept an increase in the number of cases of violence and threats to employees. Then, on the one hand, the combination of targeted measures and on the other hand, we have a somewhat lower coverage in Norwegian prisons, helping to improve the situation for those who have a daily job as their jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1523	I am pleased that the Council of State does not accept violence and threats against the prison staff, but how does the Council of State think it should be possible to contribute to the tranquility and order of Norwegian prisons when the framework of prisons is so scarce that we are now receiving feedback that programmes such as mentality and seduction can no longer be offered to the prisoners?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1528	Criminal protection shall provide an adequate level of safety appropriate to the risk posed by the conviction. Safety considerations will and shall always be the first. Social security depends on the proper rehabilitation and repatriation of the jurisdictions of society. Therefore, the government also prioritises actions that contribute to it. In our government period, we have established three new pathwayfinder units for drug treatment. Prison health services have been strengthened, and access to trained people in criminal services has increased. The government has also presented a national strategy for coordinated repatriation following the imposition of penalties. So there's been a lot of focus on criminal care, and I have a lot of attention on the development and the situation of criminal care.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1539	How will the Council of State ensure less use of isolation while the cuts proposed in the budget will lead to fewer jobs in prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1544	I do not understand that there is a connection between the two descriptions that the representative here claims. Isolation is used when there are professional reasons for this, while the budgetary situation, which one tries to relate to this, and the resource allocation is a different dish. These things are not to be confused. Then it's a fact that all public enterprises have to streamline. It's rational. That makes sense. But it also requires that we follow them closely. So let's do that. I'm concerned that we have good criminal care. This is why we are also investing in the development of new prison sites that better facilitate the proper implementation of penalties. So here the government delivers, and I don't believe that you can put security in the context of the budgetary situation for the criminal justice system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1551	That being the case, it is no. 2 done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-11-29.ana.ud285e1565	There is no record available. Thus, the map is currently processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
