ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e59	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the representative of Fredric Holen Bjørdal on parental leave for the period from 23 January to 3 February from the representative of Trond Giske on parental leave for the period from 24 January to 2 February from the representative of Rigmor Andersen Eide on sick leave for the period from 24 January and until further notice from the representative of Ms Lene Vågslid on parental leave from 1 February to 28 February Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of the South-Trøndelag County, Gunn Elin Flakne are applying for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget under Eva Kristin Hansen's leave of absence due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve from 31 January to 2. February and Steinar Reiten from 30 January until further notice For Telemark County: Lise Wiik, 1 February–28. February For the South-Trøndelag counties: Audun Otterstad, from 24 January until further notice and Ferhat Güven from 31 January to 2. February
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e137	The representative, Mr Andersen Eide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e142	On behalf of the major representatives Line Henriette Hemdal, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I would like to make a proposal on marine protected areas in the Arctic and maintain the precautionary principle of all activities in previously wholly or partly iced areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e147	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e163	A new alternate shall be elected to the Electoral Committee after the resignation of Frank Bakke-Jensen from the Stortinget. The President is asking for proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e170	I suggest Elisabeth Vik Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e175	Elisabeth Vik Aspaker has been proposed as a new alternate to the electoral committee. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Vik Aspaker is unanimously elected as the first alternate member of the Right Election Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e191	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e207	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e223	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e232	The majority is currently considering a proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party to amend the law on abortion, hereinafter referred to as the abortion law, so that foetal reduction is not permitted in Norway. When the abortion law was passed in 1978, it was not possible to remove one of several fetuses. Therefore, foetal reduction is not specifically regulated in the law or mentioned in the preparatory work of the law. Now it is technically possible to achieve foetal reduction, but this has been carried out to a very limited extent in Norway since 2000. As far as we are concerned, there have been 55 foetal reductions in Norway in 16 years. In 2000, the Department of Justice of the Ministry of Justice gave an opinion on foetal reduction in cases where one of the foetuses is seriously ill or injured. The law department concluded that abortion subjects may grant abortion for one of several foetuses if the foetus has a condition that would give rise to abortion in a single pregnancy. The policy has been different in the few hospitals that have carried it out. Therefore, in 2010, the professional community wanted to clarify the guidelines for foetal reduction and how to deal with requests from women wishing to remove one or more healthy foetuses in a multiple pregnancy. The Health Directorate asked the Ministry of Health and Welfare in November 2010 to clarify whether the abortion law allows abortion of one of several healthy foetuses. Unfortunately, the previous government did not take the initiative to clarify the matter, and the matter remained in place for several years. After the change of government, the Ministry of Justice’s law department was given a mandate to make a legal assessment of the case. This was available in February 2016 and concluded that the abortion law provides for foetal reduction. The same rules must be applied as for single-fed pregnancies. When the woman is more than 12 weeks pregnant, the abortion students may allow abortion for the health of the woman, the woman’s life situation or a combination of these indications. The law department was also clear that there is no basis for refusing a woman’s self-determination on foetal reduction if it occurs before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy. In our experience, there has never been a reduction in a healthy foetus for purely social reasons before the 12th week in Norway. It's very little talking that this is going to happen in the future, too. At such an early stage in pregnancy, it is unlikely that the woman has knowledge of how many fetuses she carries, or that she knows if any of the fetuses are seriously ill. If the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Centre involve a change in current practice, it could affect women who are pregnant with several foetuses, one of whom is seriously ill. It could be nice if the parties clarified during the debate whether they want such a change, which is, in fact, a narrowing of current practices. It could force women to choose between carrying all the fetuses, including a seriously ill child at risk, and removing all the fetuses, including those that are healthy. With regard to requests from foreign women coming from countries with stricter legislation than in Norway, according to the law on abortion, only women living in Norway will be able to receive such an offer. St. Olav's hospital says they haven't offered foreign women so far. The issue of foetal reduction is an ethically difficult issue that raises many demanding questions and dilemmas — despite the fact that this is an intervention that has taken place and will occur very rarely in Norway. In such cases, it is important that we recognise that there are dilemmas and that there are emotional debates. However, it is important that we try to stick to the core and the facts of the case, in this case that there was a need and a strong desire from the professional community to clarify the legal status and practice of foetal reduction. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Labour Party and the Left, believe that this is now finally in place. It is therefore not a change of legal status, it is a confirmation that practices are in line with the legislation we already have. We are also pleased that there is now a starting point for foetal reduction to be carried out in one place in Norway, at St. Olav's hospital in Trondheim. Taking an abortion is a very difficult choice for a woman, both within the self-determination period before the end of the 12th week and after the 12th week. When one of several fetuses in Mother's life is sick, it's almost impossible to imagine what a dilemma the woman is in. The pooling of all knowledge and the professional environment in this sensitive and difficult area will ensure the possibility of research and contribute to the safe and consistent guidance of women facing very difficult choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e255	Proposalers believe that today’s law on abortion does not provide a basis for approving a practice of foetal reduction in Norway. This is justified by the fact that when the abortion law was passed, it was not medically possible for a woman to choose how many children she would carry out. Today, this is technically possible, and such intervention is not specifically regulated by the law on abortion or mentioned in the preprocessor of the law. This has therefore led to uncertainty at the country’s hospital as to how the law should be understood. The Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Justice’s Legal Affairs have already interpreted in 2001 that the Abortion Act provides access to the reduction of a serious ill foetus. In November 2010, the Directorate of Health asked the Ministry of Health and Welfare to decide whether the abortion law allows abortion of one of several healthy foetuses. The law department has interpreted the law and concluded that it allows for foetal reduction of healthy foetuses up to the 12th week. There is reason to point to the fact that for pregnant women with more children in their stomachs a reduction in the number of foetuses could mean a significant decrease in morbidity and mortality. The same medical gain is not the same in reducing twin fetuses to one foetus. It is a health assessment to determine which foetuses are to be aborted and not the sex of the foetus. Information on sex before the 12th week may only be given if the woman has a gender-related disease. For example, if the woman has been granted a reduction in the number of foetuses after nematodes. social indication, the doctor will decide which of the foetuses is to be aborted. Foetal reduction has been carried out to a very limited extent in Norway. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has made it clear in its letter that foetal reduction is to be carried out in such a way that the selection is random, so that there is no selection between foetuses on a basis other than that provided by the law of abortion. The usual procedure is that the abortion is carried out on the most readily available foetus. Kjersti Toppe has believed that the parties that vote against today are cowardly. Disunity is something quite different than cowardice. Self-determined abortion is an important right given to women. No one takes the choices they make easily. There are many different reasons for the choices that each individual makes, and I respect their choices. Making this freedom of choice so that either one has to abort all the fetuses, or then one has to keep everyone, I don't think I'm a better or simpler solution for us as politicians. Therefore, the Progress Party does not support the amendment of the Self-Defined Abortion Act now. A friend of mine had a child a few years ago with the help of assisted conception. The couple had a choice. There could be two eggs, which would increase the chance of success, but it was emphasised that it could also result in two children, and that this assessment had to be taken before the egg was inserted. It wouldn't be accepted that you put in two eggs to increase the chance of success, and then take away one. This, I think, is a wise strategy. These are parents who can think through in advance. But not all platoon captivity is planned. The issue of foetal reduction is an ethically difficult issue and there was a need for clarification in order to achieve a consistent practice. The Directorate for Health has been in dialogue with the trade unions on how the Ministry of Justice's interpretation of the law is to be followed, for example. the information available to women assessing foetal reduction should be provided. In this context, an information letter has been prepared on the implementation of foetal reduction in healthcare, and it is understood that foetal reduction is to be carried out at the national treatment service for advanced invasive foetal medicine at the hospital of St. Olav. The Progress Party supports this and underlines the importance of providing women with good information on both risks and opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e276	When the law on abortion was passed 40 years ago, it was not possible to perform an operation where one of the two or two out of three of the children in Mother's life. Therefore, twinning away or so-called foetal reduction was not specifically mentioned in the legislation. Today, it is the Stortinge as a legislative assembly that decides for the first time whether a practice of foetal reduction should be permitted in Norway. When it became clear that the government would not send a bill to the Stortinget to have the matter fully clarified, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party raised the matter before the legislative assembly. In the proposal for a representative, we ask the government to submit a proposal to amend the law on abortion which specifies that foetal reduction should not be permitted in Norway. In principle, the Christian People's Party believes that a change in law should not be necessary, but that we specify that foetal reduction is not allowed. There are a number of issues that distinguish the general legislation on self-determined abortion and foetal reduction. But when, on the basis of a single assessment in the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice, the government concluded that the abortion law allows for foetal reduction, then the Christian People's Party needs to clarify that the law in force does not include foetal reduction. Those who today vote to allow a practice of foetal reduction justify this in a claim that the law amendment would challenge the right to self-determined abortion. I have to say, I have a deep disagreement about this. Foster reduction is a form of selective abortion because we initially want at least one child, but we want to reduce the number. The number of children results in one or more children being selected away. In Denmark, the government actually agrees with the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The Danish government has concluded that foetal reduction cannot be considered as part of the right to self-determined abortion, and they do not allow foetal reduction on healthy foetuses. The fact that Norway and Denmark arrive at completely different conclusions tells us that the case really deserves to be adequately elucidated and fully evaluated in Norway and in the legislative community. In view of the importance and value of the matter, we are therefore disappointed that the government has waived its responsibility. The representative from the Right, Wilhelmsen Trøen, went in a newspaper post so far as to claim that the party has not taken a decision as to whether foetal reduction should be allowed, but that is actually what we are doing today. It is an honest matter to disagree in the matter, but matters of such an important nature are not determined in a political vacuum. The case deserves a real political treatment in the ordinary way in government and at large. Large parts of the medical disciplines are very critical of this practice and are recognised. It is warned against having an abortion on a mother’s life in 10-15 p.m. of which the case may cost the surviving child of the stomach. It is also noted that foetal reduction is an advanced intervention. Now pregnant women from Denmark and other countries in Europe contact Norway because they want to have foetal reduction carried out here since it is not allowed in their country of origin. The professional environment fears a significant increase in the number of contacts resulting from the Norwegian guidelines, which are among the most liberal in Europe. How many requests from foreign women must come in order for the government to see the need to make a change in the law? Should it be that Norway is at the forefront and almost becomes a specialised foster-reduction clinic in Europe? There are compelling reasons why twinning away is not ethically sound. I would like to ask the majority to say that they do not, on a very thin basis – in connection with a Document 8 proposal – actually say yes to twins away and foetal reduction in Norway and will not discuss this on a broader basis. I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e295	The representative of Olaug V. Bollestad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e300	The Ministry of Health and Welfare has recently clarified how the law on abortion should be interpreted following the treatment of the Ministry of Justice. The law allows for the reduction of twins to one child, and the woman can decide this herself by the end of the 12th week. This interpretation has created debate, and I respect that proposal to amend the abortion law engages. But when a legal interpretation that confirms today's practice creates so much debate, I think it is important to reflect on the premises you create for the debate. Foster reduction has been a practice in Norway, to which the rapporteur gave a good account in his statement, and I believe that the interpretation of the law certainly confirms the professional practice that has been carried out. This is an intervention that only interrupts one of the multiple pregnancies, so by definition not an abortion, because pregnancy continues. Still, this is regulated by the abortion law as we know it. The debate has shown many misunderstandings about foetal reduction. There are usually two main reasons for the procedure. One is that the woman has a higher order of multiples, i.e. that pregnancy with many foetuses poses a high medical risk and reduction of the risk to the surviving foetuses. The second is that there may be medical reasons why one of the fetuses you have become pregnant with is not viable. The Health Directorate will continue to cooperate with the professional community on this practice in the best possible way, in order to relieve – I believe – the responsibility of the individual physician. The key requirements here will be that the woman be thoroughly informed about the procedure and that physicians carrying out the procedure can document medically sound practice. Competence and reporting must be required, and the Council's replies refer to the Health Directorate's information letter, on the basis of which this should be carried out at the National Treatment Service for Advanced Invasive Foster Medicine at St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim. There is no reason to believe that Norwegian women will not accept professional arguments for an optimal time for this treatment and this intervention. In Norway, we have a tradition of taking social interests into account in biotechnology policy. For example, today's Biotechnology Act has a ban on disclosing the sex of the foetus before the 12th week of pregnancy, and Norwegian obstetrics have a long tradition of pronouncing themselves as the fetal lawyer. This means that Norwegian pregnant women accept the offer of ultrasound testing because they want the best for their child, not because they want to remove their children. It is therefore directly sought to produce a legal interpretation of the current practice of foetal reduction as a release, an opening or a liberalisation which will lead to foreign women travelling to Norway to have this carried out. These are claims promoted on a failure of fact. For all things in the world, we need to avoid getting a development where twin gravitational gravitational gravitational skills feel that they need to decide something, that this should be a matter of choice. I would strongly urge the proposers to reflect on whether or not the premises they have put before this debate contribute to such a development.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e317	In February 2016, the message stated that foetal reduction — without a medical indication — of one or more foetuses in a multiple pregnancy was permitted before the 12th week. It was the Law Department lawyers in the Justice and Emergency Department who had assessed that abortion vows opened for abortion on one of the foetuses by multiple pregnancy. This also applies to the reduction of healthy foetuses — as part of the right to self-determined abortion. The Minister of Health and Health immediately laid this interpretation of the law at the root of the practice that the government is now imposing on Norwegian hospitals and the Norwegian professional community to follow. Such foetal reduction shall take place in one place in Norway, St. Olav's hospital. The 1976 Act on Abortion of Pregnancy remains in force. This representative proposal is not an attempt to change, but foetal reduction is not about abortion, it is about selection. Choosing one fetus instead of another is not about ending a pregnancy. Until today, no specific rules on foetal reduction have been permitted. The issue was not present when abortion laws were adopted and therefore were not discussed in the preliminary work on the law. The business environment has long been uncertain about the law on foetal reduction, but the decision and assessment of the government are wrong, especially when one, after a legal assessment by some lawyers in the ministry, is going to change Norwegian practice. This matter should be highlighted in a much larger framework and should have had a much broader political treatment, where the ethical aspects of practice were also addressed in their entirety. Foster reduction has a number of medical and ethical issues around it. The procedure presents a risk of death of 15 pst. for the foetuses that are left. Researchers at St. Olav's Hospital and the Rikshospitalet suggest that in the reduction of twins, it will be in about 10 p.m. of the cases result in a loss of both foetuses. No general medical benefit has been demonstrated in foetal reduction of twin pregnancies. There are also questions in the debate about whether the proposers will not accept foetal reduction in medical indications. I believe that the draft representative is very clear, nor is this interpretation of the law in the department concerned. If there's a situation with a seriously ill fetus, with medical indications, there's a good practice today, and we haven't suggested changing it. This proposal for a representative is about reducing the unborn child within the framework of the right to free abortion. So it's said in the debate that this is happening now, it's not a change of case law, it's a continuation of today's practice. Then I think that one could not have followed completely in the debate. At the same time, it has been said that we have had no case-law: we have been in doubt, the professional community has been in doubt, the Ministry of Health has been in doubt, and then the lawyers in the Ministry of Justice and Defence have interpreted the law as a practice, or should be a practice in the future. It is clear that there is now a change in law, it is happening today when Stortinget does not support our proposal, but based on what the government has now instructed Norwegian hospitals and the Norwegian trade union community to comply with. In the debate, it was also said that I had called those parties that mean something other than me, to 'female'. That's a misleading record of what I've said to the newspaper. What I have said is that I feel that the other parties on the Stortingen are putting an end to the debate. They want the least debate on the matter, and I think it is cowardly. I respect different views, especially in such a case, but I find it regrettable that one does not get a bigger and more proper debate on such an important matter, where there are so big ethical issues around what happens. It has also been called for by the trade union community itself. They had expected a major political debate on this topic, we don't get it. I thought the Storting could have taken care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e332	This has been the result of an earlier uncertainty about the interpretation of the current abortion law, which has subsequently been clarified by the Ministry of Justice. Both in the position and in the pulpit here today, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party criticise that foetal reduction is permitted on the basis of a legislative interpretation in the ministry, and state that this should be the subject of our political handling. The first part of the criticism I think is wrong. Of course, the Ministry should provide a precise interpretation of the current legislation when there is real doubt about the legal status. If not, a very different practice would be given around the country. The Storting passed laws, but we neither apply them nor interpret them. So when one of these people in the pulpit is talking about lawyers, it's now time for all the laws that are passed here to be interpreted. If the Storting is not happy with how laws are applied and interpreted, the Storting has one thing to do, and that's to change them. That's our job. Having said that, I think it is a good thing that the current law is now being debated in the Grand Duchy, so that one can possibly make changes to the laws, as it now applies. There is no doubt that this is a matter on which there may be a political dissatisfaction, which the committee has also shown, even though the majority who support the current law are large. We in the Left have no problem seeing the ethical dilemmas that the issue of foetal reduction travels, like other questions about abortion. Here, there's room for different views, based on the values of the individual. When we have landed to oppose the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party to tighten abortion laws, it's about us thinking that the ethical assessment should lie with the individual woman and not be subjected to a ban here in the Stortinget. In the left, we are adherents of the right to self-determined abortion and the right of a woman to control her own body, and we believe that that right also includes the possibility of foetal reduction. It is important to bear in mind that this is a matter that concerns very, very few. There are usually about four such interventions in one year here in Norway. There may be different reasons for doing so. It may be that a mother who expects vibrations or quadruples will reduce the risk of sickness and mortality in the other foetus, it may be that the option is to abort all the foetuses, it may be that there are foetuses that are sick – or there may be other reasons. That's not what I'm going to judge. What is the motivation for an abortion before 12 weeks is something we usually don't ask questions about. Nor should we do that when it comes to the issue of foetal reduction. All interventions involve a risk. The risk of spontaneous abortion to the remaining foetus is estimated to be about 15 pst. in the implementation of foetal reduction, of course, one must take seriously. But that's the seriousness I believe that woman it's in, is able to take over herself before a decision is drawn. If one adopts the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party as it is here today, it will in reality be a tightening of abortion laws. The left has concluded that we do not want to support it. So this is the case where, of course, it's a goal that there should be fewer possible abortions. Abortion is an option that should be there for those who want it, but we as a society also have a responsibility to facilitate that those who want to give birth to one or more children have the possibility, through good support schemes, good follow-up and a safe and accessible healthcare system. What concerns multiple parents in particular, I would like to stress that there may be good grounds for providing greater facilities for those who experience twin or multiple pregnancy to be safe to carry out pregnancy and receive good justice and practical arrangements afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e351	The abortion law is strong in Norway, and the clarification made in the law on this matter is clarifying. SV supports the majority’s view and believes that it has been well argued for it in the examination of the case today. We will vote against the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. Our starting point is that there are choices and assessments of the woman that must be behind decisions related to abortion, but the SV's starting point is also that everyone who wants to do so should experience real opportunities to provide children. Then we have to have social and welfare systems that are rigged for that. Because just as everyone should be sure that social support will be there, there will be the life that comes when you bring forth children with a developmental disability – and there we have a way to go – those who carry more fetuses in their pregnancy should be sure that the support of society will be there. For this reason, SV has previously proposed a scheme with the possibility of family vicars for vulnerable families, for families who suddenly experience unforeseen events, serious illness, accidents, and who are therefore out of play for a shorter or longer time, or families who receive multiple births, as we know is an extra heavy burden and not only extra joy, but also extra wake-ups. Unfortunately, it was voted down in this room. SV will not deprive women of their choice. On the other hand, we want them to be real. That's why we want to expand welfare systems, but we also want to show that you need to have the opportunity to have an independent economy, feel safe and have work. That's why I believe that temporary employment and the possibility of it actually threaten women's free and real choices, because it's hard to put children into the world if you don't know that you can support it. The economic and material conditions affect the choices we make, and the possibilities we experience that we ourselves have in life, and therefore we cannot discuss ethical issues or this kind of dilemma in isolation. We have to connect it with the welfare system we have, and the choices that people experience to have the opportunity to take in their everyday lives. For us in SV, that's the dilemma, and we understand that it's going to be difficult and demanding, but we're upholding the abortion law and the foundation on which it rests, that it's going to be the woman who takes judgements about abortion interruptions and her own body. But for all those who fear a practice where this would become more widespread, I encourage them to join the SV's fight for better welfare schemes, better support and permanent employment, so that women dare to bring forth children with security and certainty in the economy and that society's support will be present even when the days become demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e364	The issue of whether the abortion law allows for foetal reduction is both ethical and legal. With the possibilities for such intervention at present, it has been absolutely necessary to clarify how the abortion law is to be understood in this matter. In 2001, it was clarified that the abortion law allows for foetal reduction if one of the foetuses has a serious disease. The interpretation was also based on an opinion from the Law Department at that time. It states that it is not reasonable to understand the law so that the woman must choose to end the entire pregnancy, so that a healthy foetus is also aborted, where the conditions of the law are fulfilled in order to abort one of the foetuses. Thereafter, abortion has been practiced in Norway by one of several foetuses if the foetus has a serious disease or injury. A few such abortions have been carried out per year. However, in a circular from 2001, no decision was taken on whether the abortion law also allows for foetal reduction of healthy foetuses. A desire to reduce foetuses may be justified by the fact that the pregnant woman is unable to take care of more than one child. The procedure may also apply to women pregnant with vills or quails who, for health reasons, do not want to produce all the foetuses. There has been uncertainty at the country’s hospital if abortion law also allows foetal reduction in this type of case. It is therefore important to clarify this issue. The Department of Justice has concluded that the abortion law opens up the reduction of one or more healthy foetuses. Until the end of the 12th week of pregnancy, the woman’s right to self-determination shall apply. After the end of the 12th week, she must apply for an abortion subject for abortion. The woman shall not be able to choose the foetus from the sex. A health assessment shall determine which foetus is aborted. In practice, it will usually mean that the doctor chooses the foetus to minimise the risk of spontaneous abortion. It is important that pregnant women who assess foetal reduction receive good information about the intervention and that the intervention involves a risk and the risk of the intervention. The Health Directorate has pointed this out in an information letter to healthcare. The government has made no changes to policies or regulations that have led to new practices in opening up to foetal reduction. This is a purely legal interpretation carried out by the Ministry of Justice’s Legal Affairs department after health services promoted the need to clarify this issue as early as 2010. The government does not intend to propose changes to the abortion law, and I have noticed that this is in line with the view of the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e386	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e391	I agree with the Council of State that this is a very difficult matter and that there are many ethical challenges. Therefore, it is not Norway that has also assessed this issue, which has the same type of legislation, abortion law, as Norway has, namely Denmark. The Danish government concluded differently than Norway, that twinning away should not be allowed, but at the same time they still have the self-determined abortion law until 12 weeks. So my question to the Council of State is, what is the reason why Norway and Denmark can conclude as different as one actually does here?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e396	The reason for this is that Denmark has an abortion law different from Norway, where this issue has been addressed in the Abortion Act. That is, it is the Danish Parliament that has passed a law that limits this. This means that if we had any other legislation in this area in Norway, it would mean that either the Stortinget or the government would have to promote the Stortinget a narrowing in today's right to self-determined abortion. There is no basis for this either in the Right Programme or in the Progress Party Programme, nor do I believe that there is now a majority in the UK for that. I think it is a very big question whether Norway should tighten up the right to self-determined abortion, which one cannot only decide on, for example. through the examination of a proposal for a representative. This is also something that one had to – at least from the Right – discuss thoroughly in the party, anchored in a national meeting, if one had the opportunity to tighten women’s right to self-determined abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e401	When this assembly passed the law 40 years ago, they adopted it on the basis that it was not then possible to reduce the unborn child, and that was why it was the basis for the law that was then passed. Then a technological change – the medical progress has increased. But this room has never been allowed to speak, and the question would not have come up if we did not come up with a representative proposal, because the government did not come up with a matter for the Stortinget where the Stortinget would be allowed to discuss it. My question is: The Danish National Assembly has discussed this and decided on the basis of a discussion. How would the Norwegian big business discuss this if the representative proposal from the Central Party and the Christian People's Party had not come up – when this is a matter it was not possible to discuss 40 years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e408	I have told the Storting that I should have made a change to what is today's abortion law, which the Stortinget has dealt with – it was The Stortinget in 1975 that passed a law that opened up to foetal reduction in Norway, it is not the Stortinget today that takes a position on that question. There is an argument there, both from the representative here and from the representative Toppe, which I believe is wrong. The size does not take a position on this issue today. If there was any logic in that reasoning, it was at the initiative of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party that the Stortinget opened up for foetal reduction in Norway, and I don't think the representative agrees. This is a legal interpretation of a law adopted in 1975. If one were to promote the matter from the government to the Stortinget to discuss this, it would have to mean that the government had made a proposal that would reduce the woman's right to self-determined abortion. I answered that in the previous question. There is no basis for this either in the Right Programme or in the Advance Party Programme, nor do I feel that there is a majority in the Stortinget for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e415	When I hear the lines before me, it strikes me that one is inconsistent in the description of what's happening now. The Council of State says that if one is to restrict the right to self-determined abortion, as he believes our proposal is, it does not do so through a Document 8 proposal, but through a thorough political debate. Then I find it strange that when a person now actually increases the right to self-determined abortion, it should happen without a case being brought before the Stortinget, without wishing to have a debate in the Stortinget, and at all times describe it as a continuation of today's practice, when it was not possible to carry out foetal reduction when abortion laws were introduced. The question is, why did the Council of State not allow a major political debate on that change?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e422	Norway is a legal country. This implies that it is the Stortinget that adopts the laws, and then it is the courts and legal environments that interpret the laws. It's absolutely fundamental. It means, as I said in my previous answer, that there is no basis for the government to promote a case for the Storting that repeats the current law, as long as one does not intend to change the current law. It means that the only possibility you have had to promote this as a matter now would be if the government had a policy that meant that a desire to tighten up women's right to self-determined abortion. I have explained that earlier is not the government's policy. So, of course, the Storting can take the initiative to change a law on its own. I'm recording that it's not a majority for that. But it's not true that the change is happening today; it happened in 1975.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e429	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e436	The proposal on foetal reduction is an ethical and moral issue. On the one hand, foetal reduction can be compared with the right to free abortion, which is clearly still a woman and her potential partners are ready to deal with. On the other hand, selective foetal reduction must also be seen in the light of the risk to the remaining foetus(s) that may be harmed by such intervention. It is therefore not strange whether the proposal for a new law has been and is a difficult matter for everyone in this House. The left is subject to self-determination. It is therefore essential that the women or couples who ask for this type of intervention be made clear as a minimum of the risks involved. A child who is injured is deprived of some of his life’s opportunities — there is a high risk of doing so. For me, it's little that's liberal with just that. What's best for the child? If the existing law continues without change, I see it as absolutely essential that this type of intervention is centralised, so that the risk of the remaining fetus is reduced to a maximum. This case is complicated for me as working daily as a neonatal physician, and certainly for each of the representatives, by the lack of certain evidence-based knowledge in the form of randomised medical research studies, which shows how it goes in the long-term follow-up of the children born after one or more foetuses have been removed, compared to those born after multiple conceptions without selective reduction. Nevertheless, we know that surviving fetuses have increased the risk of both abortion, brain damage, CP and premature birth. The matter is well-lit in the file. The majority of the Health and Welfare Committee, through the review of the case, found that the proposed law of the Christian People's Party and the Centre were rejected. I note that the Department of Law in its interpretation of existing abortion laws, called the Abortion Act, states that selective reduction should be granted on the same basis as other abortions. A slightly different wordingd amendment could facilitate selective foetal reduction based on vibration or multiple pregnancy, or serious disease in one or more foetuses. As representatives of this house, in a matter of such strong moral and ethical angles, I wish we could all reserve the right to assess this matter across party boundaries. The decision on the suspension of the health and care committee shall be taken today. As an alternate from Uppland, I am somewhat surprised at the Stortinge's debate structure and vote on this matter. The consideration of the remaining unborn life and the risk of this being too serious a disease in these, combined with the social responsibility we are required to prevent unhealth, means that the representatives in this room should give their vote based on their own professional, ethical and moral stand and independent of party lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e453	The President will note that the voting of the representatives is not a matter for the Presidency. You do that freely, and it's a party matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e458	I can inform the President that I am going to vote entirely based on my own conviction, which is also in line with what my party believes about the issue of abortion in Norway. I remember that when I first heard about this, I must admit that I thought this was me against, this I do not seem reasonable. But then I went into the matter. The reason why you get that feeling, I think that too many couples and women are thinking about abortion at all very strange. It's about the nature of abortion and intervention – that it's actually not something that you take lightly. It's a question that goes to the deepest part of every human being's life, because in the ultimate sense it concerns life. In Norway, for many decades now, we have established a practice in which we have jointly concluded that all these moral, ethical considerations are best taken care of by the individual woman and by the individual couple – that we are not here in the national Parliament to list what is valid and not valid in relation to these issues. We simply believe that the individual here can best balance. It turns out that the abortions have remained quite stable. So these are Norwegian women and couples fully capable of deciding on their own. After thinking about and talking to a lot of people who know a lot more about this than I do, I'm not just of the opinion that you should base the interpretation of the law on the Ministry of Justice – as I see the government do, and that's what I think is good – but I also want to say that's my attitude. It may not be that if we in the Grand Duchy have passed a law that opens up the woman and the couple on a completely independent basis until twelve weeks on their own motives for abortion, end the entire pregnancy – perhaps the most extreme position you can take – then you should not allow, given the interpretation on which the Ministry of Justice's law department has based, that it should not be based on selection criteria other than those set out in the Law. You're supposed to say no, you can't? To be absolutely honest, it doesn't hold for me, logically and ethically. Finally, I would like to point out that I believe that we in Norway have done quite well in terms of not getting American states when it comes to talking about part of these difficult choices. I would therefore like to warn against the use of concepts by some – I do not say it here, but I say it in public – as abortion tourism, that in Norway we are going to make special clinics for this in Europe, or the word ‘twinning away’. It doesn't provide very good associations on ethically difficult issues for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e472	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e488	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e497	An overall increase has repeatedly highlighted the importance of a reduction in the use of coercion and the need to reduce geographical variations. Nevertheless, figures from the Health Directorate show that the use of coercion is slightly increasing and that there are still large geographical differences. This is contrary to the idea that coercion should only be used when absolutely necessary and as a last resort. To meet this, the government has strengthened patient self-determination and legal certainty. In the proposal, several proposals from NOU 2011:9 increase self-determination and legal certainty. The main change concerns patients with consent competence. These should now be granted a right to refuse treatment in the field of mental health protection. The Government has appointed a new body of public law mandated to carry out an overall review of the enforcement legislation in the healthcare sector. The sample will focus on different issues, such as the NOU 2011:9 raised, but where this sample did not go deeper into the issues or concluded. The Committee held a hearing where the Landsföreningen We Shall Overcome pointed out that we need a change of opinion and where the professionals at the Change Factory pointed out that children and young people in particular need to be seen and heard and that they were forced to do a lot of damage. I fully support these statements. The purpose of the Mental Health Act is to ensure that the implementation of mental health protection is carried out in a sound manner and in accordance with fundamental principles of legal certainty. It shall be ensured that the measures described in the law are based on the needs of patients and respect for human dignity. The Committee supports the extension and clarification of § 1-1. It is important that the purpose of the law is to make it clear that it is also an overall objective to prevent and limit coercion. The Government proposes to suspend the possibility of taking coercive decisions against patients with consent competence. The Committee believes that this will strengthen patients’ right of self-determination and legal certainty and support this. It is important to stress that the new rule will not apply where the patient presents a serious risk to the life and health of others or where there is imminent risk of suicide. There will be a need for good training and guidance on how to understand the new rules. The current provision of Section 3-9 of the Mental Health Act regulates the right to comment before a decision is taken on the establishment, maintenance and cessation of forced observation or mandatory mental health protection. The Committee supports clarification that the patient is also entitled to comment before the adoption of implementing measures under Chapter 4 of the Act. The Committee supports the statutory obligation to consult other qualified health professionals before taking a decision on treatment without its own consent, as this may contribute to the quality assurance of the decision. A clarification may also facilitate a broad assessment beyond the medical profession and that several reasoned opinions may arise. The Committee supports the proposal for a decision to be taken if the patient opposes protective measures. The Committee also supports the proposal to strengthen the legal requirements for reasons of mandatory observation, mandatory mental health protection and treatment without its own consent. The justification for a coercive decision is often a prerequisite for the patient to exercise his right to appeal, and a sound justification is also essential when dealing with a complaint by the Board of Appeal. The Committee also supports the requirement for evaluation by coercion and screening with the patient once the action has ceased. The use of coercion is perceived as an impact and an intrusion, and it is therefore important for the patient to review and put words on what he or she has experienced. Journaling the patient’s view of the measures taken will provide a better basis for adapted measures in future episodes. Such a review could also provide knowledge and development of the institution. The Committee supports the extension of the mandatory study period before the decision on co-medication is taken from three to five days. The extension of the study time requirement facilitates a better decision-making basis, which may in turn increase the possibility of obtaining voluntary treatment. The use of coercion is a serious interference with those involved. Legal assistance for the establishment of coercion may result in a reduction in the number of coercive decisions. The Committee therefore also agrees with the proposal to grant the right to free judicial advice without any need-to-be review and partiality by appeal to the State of proceedings against decisions on proceedings without its own consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e527	The government proposes in the bill amendments to the mental health protection law to increase self-determination and improve legal certainty for patients in mental health protection. The rapporteur fully presented the proposed amendments and there is an overall committee which is in agreement with the Government's proposal to amend the legislation. I therefore do not want to spend time commenting on the specific proposals under paragraph 1. The Working Party, together with the rest of the Committee, will express concern that the figures from the Health Directorate show that the use of coercive measures is slightly increasing and that there are still large geographical variations in the use of coercive measures. Force is a serious interference with the individual... [[The representative laughs]] As politicians, we need to ensure that the law guarantees the integrity of individuals and strengthens the ability of healthcare to provide help and treatment. We must be humiliating to the fact that these are people with a great need for treatment in order to do their lives. The rules of the Psychiatric Health Protection Act on detention and the use of coercive measures against people with mental disorders must be designed and practised in such a way that there is no conflict with fundamental human rights rules on, inter alia: the right to the protection of personal freedom and integrity. The main change proposed concerns patients with consent competence. These should now be granted a right to refuse treatment in the field of mental health protection. The working party, together with the Centre Party, has clarified in the explanatory statement that several hearing bodies indicate that a model which states that a patient with severe mental illness should be able to refuse to accept the offer from the auxiliaries may have serious health consequences for the patient. Several consultation bodies point out that the proposal may lead to some patients starting treatment late if healthcare fails to succeed in other follow-up on a voluntary basis. It is important to monitor developments in the service with regard to changes in the framework of forced use. Also, if it results in the patient’s treatment and progress in the course of treatment, it is unfortunate. This is why we, together with the Centre Party, propose to ask the government to provide an follow-up to the changes in the Mental Health Act and to ensure that the new rules do not lead to more coercion in the service but to effective treatment for the individual. The Government has appointed a new public body to carry out an overall review of the enforcement of healthcare. We fully support this and look forward to a further improvement for the needs and needs of this patient group. I'll practice the glasses for the next post!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e544	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e549	Yes, I am addressing the proposal we have promoted together with the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e554	It's fine, then it's done really well, and it's all in place. The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e561	– Progressive glasses become a habit after a while, I can calm the representative down! An overall increase has for many years had an overall objective of reducing the use of coercive substances in mental health and reducing geographical differences. There is no basis for such geographical differences. Data from the Health Directorate suggest that the use of coercive measures is falling slightly, and that there are still geographical differences, which are contrary to what has been the cross-cutting objective. Strengthening patient self-determination and legal certainty are important elements in creating a healthcare system in which the patient becomes the central and main party. VG has also shown many patient stories and put an incredibly important theme on the agenda, and I think it's bad reading. The Christian People's Party, like the rest of the Committee, is concerned that volunteering is the main principle of patient treatment. An overall committee is concerned that coercion and belting remain such a major problem, despite the fact that for many years there has been a focus on the challenges, and that there have been major shortcomings in reporting and control systems, as VG reports have also shown, unfortunately. When we discuss this issue of law change, it's also important to say that there are very many great people working out in Health-Norway with just these challenges, and who don't want to use force as an easy solution. Therefore, it is important that the health service and we as legislators have a good dialogue on this difficult topic and get an explanation of what needs to be done to help us find good solutions together. For it is strong, and it was strong, during consultation, to meet patients and users who put words on what happens to one when one is subjected to coercion, how it feels, and how it can shape an entire life after learning that it has been used coercion against one. They call for a change of mind and that we take most seriously that something happens to a long time when one is subjected to coercion. The Christian People's Party is pleased that an overall committee is behind the government in this bill to take a comprehensive review of the law, and that one in all health institutions working with people with mental disorders is looking at attitudes and why it is used coercion. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that an aggregate increase strengthens the legal requirements to justify decisions on forced observation, mandatory mental health protection and treatment without its own consent, while supporting the requirement to evaluate the use of coercion and protection with the patient once the action has ceased. The fact that patients, along with those who have done this mission, actually evaluate afterwards, I think it's incredibly important to get the knowledge up and down. Of all the diseases in our country, mental illness leads to most lost years of life, and it is therefore good that the government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, has invested a lot in mental health protection. But we're far from the goal. That is why the Christian People's Party believes that it is good that we also take up the legal and regulatory framework around this important work and get it better and better. I take this up with me the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted together with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e578	The representative of Olaug V. Bollestad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e583	The central party supports the proposals to amend the mental health law, ‘increased self-determination and legal certainty’. We've been discussing some of the amendments since there were several hearing bodies that shared opinions on some of the proposals, and it's essentially two of my articles that will be about. The other changes, which I don't mention, we're too unresponsive. The Ministry itself writes in the proposition that introducing such a competence-based model for compulsory mental health protection raises some difficult questions, and several of the hearing authorities indicate that introducing a model that allows a patient with severe mental illness to refuse to accept supplies from mental health protection can have serious health and welfare consequences for the patient. We also have to be tuned to that. The proposal may lead to some patients entering treatment later if the healthcare service is not closed with other follow-up on a voluntary basis, and this may mean poorer treatment prospects and a reduction in the quality of life in the long term for these patients. Another objection to the model is that it may lead to increased use of the condition that the patient poses a danger to others, thus increasing the use of coercion and not less. This is why the Centre Party and the Labour Party have made proposals to evaluate the changes that are now being proposed, precisely to ensure that they do not result in any further coercion in the services. The second proposal I would like to mention is to evaluate and look at enforcement in particular, the proposal to increase the mandatory investigation period before a decision is taken, from three to five days. We thought it was good that the government reduced it from six days to five days. Six days was what Paulsrud's selection suggested, but it's an increase from three to five days. It is important to be able to continue to make exceptions, including: if the patient comes to the institution, etc., and it is also important that health services are trained in how to practice the new rule. But it's serious, I think, when both the Health Directorate and the State Health Department write in their hearing interview saying that increasing investigation time can lead to more use of coercion, including aggravation of the patient's condition and prolonged detention in the institution. I would therefore urge the Minister of Health and Health to follow this closely in the health services after the new law has been implemented. Even if our proposal for a follow-up evaluation does not get multiples, I hope that one looks at just these things, because the last thing I want this amendment to contribute to today is more forced out in the services.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e594	Evidence-based medicine is based on three key pillars: science, health professionals' knowledge and experience, and not least the patient's own knowledge and experience. The left has a long tradition of caring for people first. Strengthening the patient’s self-determination and legal certainty are key and important elements in the patient’s safe healthcare. In the past, the left has provided for a wide-ranging investigation into the use of coercive measures in the health and care sectors. Documents 8:90 S for 2015-2016, under consideration in the Committee, propose the establishment of a wide-ranging public body to investigate the use of coercive measures throughout the healthcare sector, including mental health, drug care, dementia and child protection. The left proposes the establishment of a more effective system for recording and reporting the use of coercion in all parts of the healthcare sector. There seems to be a desperate need for this to be implemented as soon as possible, and the Left is therefore pleased that additional appropriations were provided for the State budget in order to speed up this important work. The councils presented this work before Christmas. Increased user involvement is an important key to reducing the use of coercion both inside and outside institutions. We point out that the majority of the Paulsrud Committee proposed that the assumption of consent should be a condition for the use of coercion under mental health law. Opinions of the Hearing Officers have been divided on the proposal. The Ministry has not found sufficient grounds for proposing that the assumed consent should be considered as an absolute condition for the use of coercive mental health laws. We recognise that it may be very difficult in clinical practice to decide on this condition. At the same time, we believe that it should be done through self-declaration, the patient's previously expressed wishes, individual plans, etc. The minority in the Committee therefore considers that there should be a basis for coercion in mental health protection that it is likely that the patient would have consented to health care if he had decision-making powers and that this should be a condition included in the law. We recall the Oviedo Convention, Article 9 of the Council of Europe's Bioethics Convention, of which Norway is bound by international law, requiring that the patient's previously expressed wishes be taken into account. We also ask the Stortinge to take note of the fact that ‘assuming consent applies to the patient and user rights law’, and that it should therefore be a matter of course that people with mental illness should also have this right. We believe that supposed consent for people who lack decision-making competence will strengthen the real significance of statements and the patient's expressed opinions when coercion is assessed, and that is the background for the Left's proposal to include this as a condition of law. We are pleased that the Christian People's Party also wants to stand behind this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e610	The use of coercion in mental health protection has received considerable attention. The criticism is directed primarily at non-compliance with the legislation. As I explained in the Stortinget on 7 December last year, I have put in place a number of measures to ensure that enforcement is used only within the framework of the Mental Health Protection Act. I have also taken action to improve the reporting of forced use. The Paulsrud Committee proposed changes to the legislation on the use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection. They also recommended that further questions be examined. That is why we have set up a legislative committee that is now reviewing and revising the enforcement legislation for the entire healthcare sector, not just in the area of mental health protection. The selection shall deliver its submission in autumn 2018. In the bill to be considered today, we have followed up a number of Paulsrud Committee proposals on increased self-determination and increased legal certainty for patients in mental health protection. Treatment against the patient's will is a strong interference with human integrity. The starting point for treatment to be voluntary also applies to patients in mental health protection. However, I believe that the law still has to provide limited access to treat patients with severe mental disorders even if they do not want to. However, in one situation, we propose to extend the patient’s self-determination: the patient should be allowed to decide whether to accept treatment on condition that they have consent competence, that there is no near-risk to the patient’s own life, and that there is no near-risk to the life or health of others. The patient should also be given the right to refuse treatment. They will also be entitled to terminate treatment. This gives them the right, to a greater extent than at present, to take decisions that may arise as a challenge and be unreasonable to both treatment providers and relatives. We have placed the decisive emphasis on the change respecting the principles of self-determination and non-discrimination. These principles are based on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, to which Norway has acceded. I understand those who are concerned that the change will have consequences for the health and well-being of people with severe mental disorders. The Directorate of Health has therefore been given the task of making a guide to the amendment of the law. This way, we're going to make sure that the new rules are properly practiced. We also propose changes to strengthen patient legal certainty: A decision should be made when the patient opposes screening, not only when the shielding has lasted for 12 or 24 hours. The mandatory study period which must be completed before coercive medication may be put into action shall be extended from three to five days. It will provide a better basis for assessing the necessity of coercion. We continue the exemption from the mandatory study period when the patient will suffer significant health damage in the event of deferral, or when the patient is already well known by the institution. Professionally responsible persons shall consult other health professionals before treatment without their own consent — e.g. coercive medication — to be started. Patients shall be given a free lawyer for up to five hours when they wish to appeal to the State for a decision on treatment without their own consent. We strengthen the requirements for justification for decisions on forced observation, forced mental health protection and investigation and treatment without our own consent. It will provide a better basis for assessing whether the conditions of use of coercion are met. The use of coercion shall be evaluated with the patient. The patient shall be offered at least one conversation where he or she shall describe how they experienced the use of coercion. This will also be documented and thus serve as a basis for assessing the patient’s view of coercion if the patient returns to healthcare. It is very important that the patient’s right to self-determination is respected as far as it is sound. Forces shall only be used when strictly necessary and only in situations where the legislator has permitted them. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee has joined the government's proposed legislative amendments to extend the patient's right to self-determination, but also to improve the patient's legal certainty in the cases of forced use.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e655	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e673	Norway was early off to have rareness in action plans and has been a spearhead and a leading country in rare diagnosis. This is largely due to pioneers and fires. Norway currently has nine unique centres for different types of rareness. In 2014, the national expertise service for rare diagnosis was established to ensure the build-up and dissemination of competences. Worldwide, between 6,000 and 8,000 different rare diagnoses are described. About 80 pst. of these due to a change in the genes. The number of diagnoses is increasing every year, in parallel with new genetic findings. In Norway, the total number of persons with rare diagnoses is estimated to be 30,000. Rareness itself does not require health care or other assistance, but many of the diagnoses are congenital and heritable conditions requiring long-term and coordinated services. People with rare diseases often feel alone with their situation, and lack of knowledge presents additional challenges. This lack of knowledge may result in persons with rare diagnostics not having access to the necessary services essential for a good life span. There is relatively little research on rare diagnoses, there are few treatment options, and the main focus for people with rare diagnoses is to live with the disease. Most people can live a good life with the right help. Persons with rare diagnosis experience to be their own expertise, responsible for disseminating skills about their own diagnosis and needs, and in practice being their own coordinators. In order to improve this, users and the professional community are calling for a national strategy to strengthen the anchoring of powers and to clarify the leadership of coordination. The strategy must be based on the principle that persons with rare diagnoses receive an equivalent offer. Health services are perceived as fragmented, with the most resource-intensive winnings. There is also a need to strengthen user involvement. It is users who have been the primary source of the evolution that has occurred. It is therefore desirable to ensure user representation in all centres and in research to focus more strongly on content. Rare congenital syndromes can now be diagnosed more rapidly and the investigation period until cause diagnosis is shortened. Early diagnosis is important, both because damage can be avoided and prevented, and because a diagnosis is often necessary to provide users with the services they need. An action that has had a positive impact is neonatal screening from 2012. Those affected as children are the most serious — and they are better cared for by rehabilitation than they experience for adults. It is necessary to strengthen the local apparatus around the user with the means available to this group, as for other chroniclers. Unfortunately, the individual level, the municipal coordinator, the patient coordinator, the contact doctor and the BPA often do not work as they should for this target group. Good networks between physiotherapists can be a good tool to ensure proper assistance and equivalent offers. Access to technical solutions is often difficult. Nav focuses on diagnostics and distances – where rare diagnostics do not fit in. The treatment may also be expensive and may in practice challenge our fundamental principle of equivalent offers. With better treatment provision, many live longer, and ageing challenges are increasing. There is little knowledge of the development of symptoms. When rarity is hereditary, whole families may be affected. There is also a need to discuss the definition of ‘rare diagnosis’. It varies between countries. In Norway, a diagnosis is rarely considered when fewer than 10,000 have been diagnosed, i.e. at the base of 500 people. I am therefore a little surprised that ADHD is defined as a rare diagnosis in Norway today. The e-learning portal can be an important tool for strengthening and disseminating new competences. People with rare diagnoses are often dependent on networks throughout the country. Many have a high proportion of self-treatment requiring extensive follow-up efforts. Increased use of videoconferencing should be facilitated compared to what we see today. Both Nordic and international cooperation is necessary in the rareness field. In some cases, there are only a few people in the world who have the current diagnosis. Many of the rare diagnoses have no treatment. In some cases where there are medicinal products that can be used but are not authorised for the relevant indication, the process towards both the Medical Products Agency and HELFO is demanding and prolonged. We also get feedback that HELFO's foreign office can be challenging. It should be noted that it is sufficient for a professional community in Norway to say that they can carry out the treatment without requiring quality documentation, while the patient refers to professional environments abroad that have specialised in the treatment of certain rare diagnoses. These are difficult issues, but Health Norway needs to strive for reasonable documentation, transparency and traceability requirements for its decisions, so that patients – including this patient group – feel well cared for. With small environments, it is challenging to re-examine — a second opinion, which is often held in other areas. We experience radical developments in precision medicine, research and innovation in the health and care sector. How can we ensure that these new opportunities also benefit individuals with rare diagnoses? Rare diagnostics were mentioned in the priority message, and Stortinget clarified that they should not get worse with the changes proposed. On the contrary, they must be better cared for. Technologies and treatment services should be developed to strengthen the ability of self-medication for the few rare diagnostics that can be treated in a medical way. More systematic efforts are needed in many areas. Research networks and training of several clinical geneticists are requested. With so many different diagnostics, it is important to strengthen knowledge-based practices. Registers are needed to increase knowledge, systematisation of adequate patient pathways, more network thinking, progress warranties and a clearer responsibilities map, so that users become less involved in casting balls between services. With challenging and rare diagnosis, a disclaimer from professionals can easily arise by referring users to centres of expertise. It is a very unfortunate attitude for people to have services through the regular offers, regardless of whether they are specialist health services, hubs, municipal health, housing organisation or arrangements for taking training or adaptation to the workplace. Many also have common problems, even if the diagnosis is special. It's precisely in areas like rare diagnostics that we need stronger authority anchoring. System-oriented services are crucial in the pursuit of a more equivalent offer. A national strategy for the field of rareness could lead, so that cooperation with other services does not become as random as is often the case today. It will provide the necessary authority support for the definition of rare diagnoses and the responsibilities of the different actors for this patient group. As I mentioned earlier, Norway has been a leading country in developing knowledge and treatment for people with rare diagnoses. Today, France is a leading country, and they are doing their third strategy. Italy has been a leading country for the development of registers. Norway has been particularly good at seeing the whole human being. Work is in progress across Europe to improve the living conditions of small patient groups with severe and complex diseases. In a 2009 Recommendation, the EU recommended that all Member States develop and implement plans or strategies for rare diseases. Norway is now a few countries that do not have such a strategy plan. In this area, it should be particularly important to think about the effectiveness and coordination of knowledge and resources. There is Nordic cooperation – a network for rare diagnosis – and perhaps a Nordic strategy should be considered. Norway holds the Presidency of the Nordic Council. So the question is, will the Council take the initiative in a strategy plan to provide people with rare diseases with equivalent health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e732	In Norway, it is common to define a diagnosis that rarely occurs when it is born and less than 1 in 10,000 people have the condition. The number of people with rare diagnoses in Norway is estimated to be around 300,000*, and with the most widely used international definition there would be many more. The Norwegian ‘living with’ model for persons with rare diagnosis has attracted international attention because the model is to take care of the whole human life situation, not just health care measures. Competence settings are also concerned with the family situation, school and professional life. Nevertheless, many people with rare diagnoses do not get a good enough offer of investigation, diagnosis and treatment. The diagnosis is made too late, and only a few professionals in Norway have competence in the disease in question. For people with rare diagnosis, early diagnostics must be available and treatment should be initiated rapidly to avoid permanent damage. Genetic sequencing, development of the neonatal screening field, medical research and development mean that more and more rare diagnostics can be diagnosed and more can be treated gradually. Many rare conditions may be difficult to diagnose. Changes are often present in different parts of the body, which gives a composite medical image. The government's goal is to create the patient's healthcare. In the patient’s healthcare system, everyone should be confident that they will receive help when they need it and that the patient will meet as an equivalent party who will participate in their own treatment. In a meeting between equivalent partners, the trainer is the one who has the education, and he is the expert who can interpret the symptoms and make the diagnosis. The professional here shall continue to be responsible for the processing. For people with rare diagnosis, it often differs. In meeting healthcare, one must not only be the expert on what is important in his or her own life, but also often inform professionals about the diagnosis, treatment options and complications. Rebecca Tvedt Skarberg, a user representative in the FFO, who is a member of the National Rare Diagnostic Competence Service, has summarised this situation in this way: ‘The main challenge of living with a rare diagnosis is the lack of knowledge. Many describe ignorance, lack of answers, exasperation, loneliness and a life characterized by having to be their own expert. When more well-known diagnostic groups call for diagnostics, follow-up and treatment within certain deadlines, many with rare diagnosis know that it is utopian. When looking for health services with symptoms and issues not listed in the book, the situation becomes challenging both for the treatmenter and for the user.’ Young people with disabilities have a number of proposals for changes in the organisation and service of young people with rare diagnosis. They say that responsibility for being an expert on self-diagnosis and coordinating services must not be left to young people or their relatives. The challenge for people with rare diagnostics has been the subject of several plans and messages. The prioritisation message points to the adoption of criteria as a rule to capture relevant considerations in rare circumstances. Rare and serious conditions where treatment can be beneficial for the patient in the light of resource use will be prioritised. The government considered that there is no basis for introducing an independent priority criterion for rareness. Rare non-serious conditions should not automatically take priority over serious conditions affecting many. The size joined this. The government underlined that good treatment for rare conditions is an important goal, and drew, among other things, promote the importance of increased competence among health professionals, the organisation of the service and international research cooperation. The phasing out plan for habilitation and rehabilitation points to the fact that competence and ability to diagnose and follow up persons with a rare diagnosis vary between health regions. People with rare diagnoses need follow-up and guidance in many areas, and child habilitation services are central to their users and families. But because the service is organised differently, and there are different diagnostic practices, there are major differences in the reported occurrence of several rare diagnoses. Proper diagnosis as early as possible is often the basis for good treatment. For example, extended neonatal screening may provide the basis for early treatment of 23 rare and very serious congenital diseases. The Ministry has entrusted the Health Directorate and Health Regions with the task of following up the National Strategy for Personalised Medicine in Health. Rarely serious illness is one of three priority areas and the work on personalised medicine has already come a long way. It is recommended, inter alia, that: developing own action plans for personalised medicine in these priority areas. The strategy for personalised medicine also points to the need for standardisation of genome testing. The Health Directorate has asked for this priority in the follow-up to the strategy. The 2017 budget authorises the establishment of a national network of regional competences for personalised medicine and of a national anonymous frequency register for hereditary gene variants. Both of these measures are important to ensure that Norwegian patients are involved in the development of personalised medicine. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has assessed whether a strategy for patients with rare diagnoses can be an appropriate tool to improve the supply of these groups. Several disciplines have called for such a strategy, as is already the case in most European countries. Like the interpellant, I have come to the conclusion that a strategy will be useful to clarify the tasks and roles of the many actors involved in a knowledge-based offer to Norwegian patients. The Health Directorate has previously recommended the Ministry to initiate Nordic work to harmonise the definition of rare diagnosis. This will also facilitate cooperation on the exchange of clinical experience, research and registry cooperation. A strategy may allow users, professionals and authorities to assess leadership in the field of investigation, processing, professional development, research, register work and international cooperation – this as a basis for developing a knowledge-based and best possible treatment and follow-up service for persons with rare diagnoses. User experience will have to be central to such strategic work. Users can clarify how we can ensure that the hospital and national services, the habilitation service and municipal services together provide a comprehensive offer to those who need it. National expertise service for rare diagnosis is one of several key actors to ensure that the user’s input and needs are met. Norwegian patients and user organisations are active in the Nordic and European networks and working groups, often together with authorities and national services. There is a need to clarify the role and responsibilities of the various actors in international cooperation. This will be part of the strategy work. The challenge picture for people with rare diagnosis makes it necessary to think again to meet tomorrow’s quality assurance and investigation requirements, diagnosis, treatment and follow-up for persons with rare diagnosis. The strategy for people with rare diagnosis shall contribute to clarifying the organisation of services and the roles of users, public services, research and professionals, to administrations and to voluntary organisations. Work will now involve professional environments with processing responsibilities, national treatment and competence services and, in particular, users. So my answer to the interpellation is simple. *The number of 300000 is directed by the Council of State to 30000 in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e775	Of course, I am very pleased with the positive answer, but I also believe that working on such a strategy for a patient and user group that is so complex will also have a positive effect on the findings and issues that emerge and give new knowledge to other groups – I am thinking especially of chroniclers – that could benefit from such a strategy. This is actually innovation in practice, and I'm very much in favour of it. So I just want to make it clear that I got to know these challenges when I was working on the priority message. I think it's cross-political consensus, but at the same time, when we get that knowledge, we have a responsibility to follow up on, and maybe especially locally, because here there are challenges related to Nav, to municipalities, etc. – that composition. When we have this knowledge of rarity and the challenges that people have, we have to raise it, because it is our responsibility in our society, perhaps especially as elected representatives, to speak for all those who need our voice the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e782	I fully agree with the interpellant that the work on the strategy itself will be able to provide us with many new and good answers, which we might be able to use in other areas as well. Then I very much agree that the services, where patients and users live, have to work. It is also that much can be done in terms of improvements while working on the strategy, because we know that this is a challenge, and there we all have a responsibility. But I think that when we start this work, we will be able to reap new experiences. So this is also a special area where we have to think much more in a Nordic perspective in all ways, simply because patient groups that are initially small, in a small country like Norway will sometimes have challenges related to, among other things. follow-up of part of the patient rights, e.g. a second opinion, participation in clinical research programmes, etc., but at a Nordic level we will often be able to get into a number of professionals and patients who will be able to provide a completely different basis. That is why it is also important that, in the Nordic work, both at parliamentary and government level, we are committed to bringing this patient group forward. We will do that, also in the work we start when Norway now takes over the presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e789	Let me first of all thank interpellant Grung for raising an important question for debate and, as the Council of State, give my unreserved support for the development of a strategy plan for an equivalent health offer for people with rare diseases. Today's government is creating the patient's healthcare. In that case, rare suffering cannot be an exception. Therefore, the preparation of such a strategy plan will take place as early as this year, through a work anchored in the Health Directorate. I agree with both the inter-pellant and the Council of State that it is also important to bring this into Nordic cooperation in order to ensure even better solutions and planning for the future. We will all use health care several times in life through some form of illness or disorder. Some go through life about fresh from cradle to grave, while others suffer from rare, painful, complicated and serious diseases. When a small group of people are hit by a rare disease, it's important that we take them seriously, just as if they had one of the big diseases, like that. cancer, cardiovascular disease or diabetes. As mentioned earlier, rare diseases in Norway are characterised by the presence of the diagnosis in less than 500 individuals. Today there are approx. 30,000 people living with a rare disease here to land. The diseases are, in many cases, heritable, very serious or life-threatening, they worsen over time and may lead to reduced life expectancy. And it's often difficult to diagnose correctly at an early stage in the course of the disease. Following the involvement of parents and the Coalition for Rare Diseases, the Progress Party raised the issue of the system of derogations for this group in the treatment of the prioritisation message – this because we know that the industry may have lower incentives to develop, among others. medicinal products for small patient groups due to the fact that there are fewer patients to share development costs, which in turn can provide particularly expensive medicinal products for a small group. That is why we have adopted an exceptional regime for specific small groups of patients with very serious conditions, where there is often no good evidence of treatment. The scheme implies that higher resource use can be accepted for these measures than for others. The importance of safety and predictability for patients with rare diagnosis needs to be assessed. It's not just working in everyday life and being able to live with the disease, but also that these patients are actually given priority to treatment. A strategy plan will then be needed at the bottom – for the benefit of all those with rare diseases in our long-term country. Thus, it is with pleasure that I can give my full support to the interpellant in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e806	I also want to put myself in the sequence and thank you interpellantly. This is a very important matter, and I am also very pleased with the Council's answer that yes, we want a strategy. Being born with or getting a rare diagnosis is a challenge – just getting the diagnosis. Very many have it innate, others get a diagnosis during life, and rare diseases and rare congenital diseases require follow-up. Sometimes we know in advance that Mother is carrying a child with a special challenge. I would like Norwegian municipalities – already then – to put in a coordinator, so that when the child was born, they wouldn't run between all the agencies to get help. ‘It is to me that you should relate to you’, the coordinator may say, ‘and I bring on the track what they need’, for parents who have children with special challenges and rare diagnostics, are often worn out by looking into the system. I also think it would have been better for the municipal system to be spared in advance, if that's possible. A coordinator also becomes important for those who get a disease that is rare during life, because the offers, opportunities and the floors don't always talk. So having a coordinator that helps you with the practical, I think will help the public, but most of all the person who has it. We often receive e-mails from people looking in the system that are in this room, and finally they address us. I think we could have done this in a simpler way. Many of those who have a rare disease or diagnosis have social challenges to find out about the medical services, and they often have smaller patient organisations in their backs because they are so few. So they don't have the same media either. The group does not meet the challenge of research funding, nor is it a medical profession to be a specialist in rare diseases. There are some diagnostics that get more status than others in Norwegian health care. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State is now responding to a great and tumultuous ‘yes’. I also think that contact not only has to be within the Nordic region, because some diseases are so very rare that in some cases I think we have to have a contact network across the Nordic region too – this to help each other, both to get further researched, and not least to give all the opportunity that actually exists at any time. That's why I'm very pleased with this interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e817	I want to boast to the interpellant and boast to the Council of State. This is policy at its best, where one across the political divide takes a special responsibility for those who need us the most. That's very good. I am also very happy to hear that in the further process the users and the relatives should be engaged separately and listened to. I think it'll be important to get good results, because this is not an easy problem to solve. This is complicated and complex and will require a very good and comprehensive process and a thorough process. What it's always pointing at is lack of knowledge and breaking that code, how we're going to deal with this. As we're told here, we're a small country, with 5 million inhabitants. That means that we have to be prepared for not being able to have competence in everything, but we have to be able to acquire that competence, possibly from others, when we need it, and know where to get that competence. This is an extremely difficult situation for those concerned, both for children, young people and adults. This is extremely difficult for the parents who have children with rare and often complex disease images. It's not just a rare diagnosis, but there's a lot of additional problems. What I miss in meeting many of these parents and users is also a humility from the professional community in Norway. Where one does not know, one has to be clear and say that «Sorry, we cannot do enough about this, but we shall see if we can acquire knowledge». If it is beyond the borders of the country, one must have the appropriate humility. Some of the worst things I've seen, in some of those cases, are when the trade union community in Norway claims that they can – and they can't. So it's going to be an important problem in the future, and I think a closer Nordic cooperation can be involved in solving a little bit in that crowd. Then it is clear that, as far as the performers are concerned, the lives of the municipalities where children, young people and adults and relatives who have rare and often complex diagnoses and diseases live – and the representative of the coordinator, Bollestad, is absolutely essential. One must admit that there is a lot of sin. This service is not up and going in a sufficiently good way in a lot of municipalities, but there are exceptions. If someone needs a coordinator, it's just the relatives and the users we're talking about here. One might have to connect specialist health services and primary health services much more closely, even in terms of the acquisition of competent coordinators in these areas. Guidance from specialist health services is probably also a haven for very many municipalities and for parents and users, because where you have knowledge, that knowledge is often not transferred into the municipalities. So the municipalities -- it's kindergartens, schools, relief, leisure, work, housing -- are often left as big question marks. The same applies to the determinations. It is important here both how this knowledge is disseminated and how the specialist health service follows up the municipalities, and unfortunately we see in a number of cases that we have a lot to do about the piece of guidance in the specialist healthcare service. It's about an individual adaptation and connecting it together. It's a complicated, but certainly affordable problem if you just want it enough. And once again, thank you very much for showing us the policy from its very best when it comes to taking care of those who have the most difficulty. There is a quality in the Norwegian political system and democracy, and it is evident in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e834	I want to thank the interpellant for traveling an important interpellant. There is not so often a full penetration in the staging room, so I would also like to congratulate you on that. Thanks also to the Council of State, which is so clear in this matter. It is not just developing a strategy. The most important thing is to implement this strategy out in the services, and it may also be the most difficult, but it is a necessity to achieve if one is to achieve the goal of obtaining equivalent offers also for patients with rare diagnosis and rare disease. We've been treating a lot of major health care issues over the last few years that one must also stick to when one is a patient with a rare disease. Hopefully, it will be so that what we decide in connection with, for example, The drug notification and the prioritisation message, suggest that these patients get the promise we think they should have up against other, larger patient groups that – as many have said here – may be stronger speech staff themselves, have stronger patient organisations in their backs and have higher status. Despite the big messages, these groups may still not be seen and heard and not get what they are supposed to have, and live their lives in a long fight to get their dishes on the same line with others. When it comes to the prioritisation message, it's said that we accept higher resource use, and although rareness is not an own criterion, it's embedded in the others, so that they should be prioritised when decisions are taken on the basis of the criteria we're now adding. When it comes to the pharmaceutical notification, I think it's a pretty big dilemma as there's been a greater requirement for documentation, and when there's a small patient group, it's harder to document, plus that producers aren't interested in developing drugs that aren't so much to sell. The representative of Bollestad said she received many e-mails from patients. I get that too, and they make a big impression on me. I asked a written question to the Council of State last July about a patient who has a disease called iktyosis, which is a serious and rare skin disease. They have fish skin, and they need a lot of lubrication with moisturizer, but they don't get wet cream on the blue recipe. We have a similar system of moisturizers on blue prescriptions for those with atopic eczema, and they are many, many more. This patient is very despondent, has no strong patient organisations behind him, and what was answered was that the Medical Products Agency did not consider a pre-approved refund for moisturizers such as Canodem for use in ichtyosis because the manufacturer has not applied for it. There we are, and there is a desperate situation, and I hope that, even if a strategy is to be developed, we can take up some of the issues that we are familiar with, to see if things can be resolved before the strategy is developed and implemented, because there are many who do not get the right treatment. In the end: We also received the report from the NOU 2016:17 Rights Committee, which was handed over to the government in the fall. He goes a little bit on the same thing, man with developmental inhibition, and many rare diseases lead to it. Good health care is then one of the eight liftings proposed by the selection, and I hope that the Storting will be notified as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e849	Congratulations to the interpellant! But first of all, congratulations to the people that this actually applies. Of course, the left is positive to today’s rare diagnosis interpellation and it is a clear need for us to follow the European recommendations in order for all countries to develop such national strategies — and the response of the Council of State is very joyful. Norway has always been a long way to go in terms of integration, research and patient trajectory for people with rare diagnosis. We are pleased that from 2014 we have had National Competence Service for Rare Diagnosis at Oslo University Hospital, with coordinating responsibility for nine centres treating patients with rare diseases. Currently, excellent work is being carried out throughout Norway on people with rare diagnoses, but time is now ripe for us to work on a common strategy plan to coordinate and create equivalent offers for the few patients and groups concerned. First of all, such a national strategy will be of great importance in helping the individual clinicians who meet and suspect that there are persons with such diagnosis, with the help of diagnostics. Secondly, it will provide a coordinated plan for everything, from patient follow-up to education and working life for the individual concerned, and it will provide an opportunity for us in Norway to participate in European cooperation on research and development for these patient groups. This case also raises the fact that Norway today lacks a government anchor for the rareness field. In Norway, a diagnosis is rarely considered when less than 1 in 10,000 has been diagnosed. As I said, it's less than approx. 500 people with diagnosis throughout the country. This is different from most countries it is natural to compare with. In the rest of Europe, the definition is set at 1 per 2000. The fact that we have different definitions today leaves us out of important European networking for some patient groups. This means that we cannot participate in research and development on an equal footing with other countries. There is a clear need to also try to find a strategy to address the challenge of the distinction between treatment services and competency services, so that in the future, we do not risk a national rare diagnosis competence service falling outside the European network groups because they do not have a sufficient degree of treatment service. Such a strategy, which we have now heard that we are going to undertake, must establish a structural plan for diagnosis and investigation, coordination of patient processes and user involvement, how to find and prevent rare diseases, the role of research and not least a strategy for enabling these patients to develop ‘empowerment’ or self-reliance. We are pleased that the Council of State takes note of the European recommendations that Norway, in line with other countries, should develop national strategies for rare diagnosis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e865	I would like to thank colleagues and the Council of State for a very good debate and for their good input. When I met the trade union community, I asked them to summarize what was most important to them, considering such a strategy plan, and there were four points: the desire for equivalent and adapted services; systematic work, from offering to individual users, to systems helping more Need for coordination the importance of lifting the rarity field because the patient is easily ignored; I am reasonably sure that this will be carried out in the forthcoming strategy plan. I was also told that the fires that were involved in building this field had their base in the Health Directorate, so there is something about the personal initiatives being able to get a great deal of impact when Norway put its footprint in the start-up of this field being lifted. It's also exciting to see if we can renew the field in which we might be strongest, according to the feedback we get, and that's seeing the whole human being, and that we might be able to give a little bit back to the international field in this area. Even I was visiting Olaviken, which is an institution on Askøy outside Bergen. They've specialized in Huntington's disease. It was fascinating to see how they have built up their expertise in this area, not least in nutrition, but also in creating videotapes, which they used in the guide, and chatting and direct guidance. So here's the potential. Many have gone ahead, but then I get feedback that it is their lighthouse. But it's important for lighthouses too, to show the way for how it can be built up. The special thing within this particular field is that there is an American who has supported very much of the research, and who has probably had a disease in his family. It'll be exciting to look at the work ahead. At least I think this was very happy. I'm actually surprised that it was such a positive result, so here we've worked well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e893	I thank you for a good discussion, with many good views and recordings, and I thank you interpellant for raising this theme. I would also like to clarify that in my post I was able to say 300,000 instead of 30 000 – so that it comes out correctly. So now work on a strategy, and of course it will, as I also said in my post, be developed in collaboration with users and patients who have experience in the area. This will also ensure that the issues raised by the interpellant are properly addressed in that work. Norway also has many good professional environments, which are very strongly involved in this field. Many countries look at Norway and some of the grips that have been done, and that is very good. At the same time, the feedback is in many ways that when it comes to making things work in everyday life, making your whole life work together, it's often where we fail. I hope that this strategy can contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e902	So the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e920	The Nordic welfare model on which Norway is based, with Community solutions such as fundamental democratic bodies such as the police and the judiciary, a well-developed public health system, a public school offer, publicly funded research and education environments and welfare schemes etc., is financed by taxes and taxes. That is at least the main source of income. Taxation must be seen as fair, fair and effective in order to maintain the legitimacy of the ordinary citizen. If we are to maintain and develop this system in the light of the new era and take into account the new challenges facing society, the development of the system must be based on research and excellence. Today, the expertise in tax law in Norway is largely concentrated among the large law firms. In addition to carrying out large processes against tax authorities, by seizing large parts of the tax base’s competence and capacity, these actors reinforce their dominance by writing textbooks and conducting other training activities. The fact that this development of competence takes place on the basis of private interests will result over time in a weaker level of protection for the Community's interests. The tax system has a heavy professional environment, but this environment will have to play a major role in the ongoing issues and processes. We therefore need a highly professional environment of competence in the field of tax law, which can have a distance from the different special interests, and which is lifted out of the roles of the parties. Such an environment must be at the academy. Tax law is the subject of the Norwegian Faculty of Law. Senior professionals have reached retirement age, and the academic community at the universities has not been able to build up new professionals who have been able to renew and continue these research environments. Moreover, the tax system must be based on economic competence. Tax law that is not based on a proper understanding of basic economic mechanisms can never be effective. In Bergen, there is a good opportunity for professional cooperation between economists and lawyers – between the Faculty of Law at the University and the Centre for Tax Economy at the University of Commerce. By linking these environments together, we can develop a strong professional environment that is conducive to meeting the challenges facing the profession. The University of Stavanger has one professor of tax law. In addition, they have sound competence in accounting and economics. There is today a common strategy to work together to develop a regional axis of competence in the West in the field of tax law. But the environment should be national. An active research network should be established between the other legal faculties, BI, colleges and other relevant research environments. Tax law also has an important role to play in economic crime. Tax evasion is crime. All economic crime also has a tax dimension. Activities aimed at concealing financial crime — including money laundering — have clear fiscal aspects. It is therefore important to link our tax law commitment to the strongest criminal law environment, which we also have at the Legal Faculty in Bergen. Building sound scientific competence takes a long time. It is common for ten to twelve years to go from passing a master's degree in law until the candidate has a professor's qualification. A focus on a subject such as tax law must therefore have a long-term perspective. We will never get a strong trade union environment by entrusting this only to the knowledge environments themselves or using tools such as public doctoral thesis, even though both Skatt West and the chemist in Bergen Municipality have taken the initiative to establish it at their institutions. There is therefore a need for a cap to strengthen the tax law environment over several years. It needs to be built on the talents that are studying today, as well as on the recruitment of new ones that can help to create the necessary breadth. It will also be beneficial to relate to international competence – taxation systems exist in an international context, and a Norwegian professional environment therefore depends on the involvement of international expertise. The Panama Papers disclosures made it clear how important tax law is. It must be a national responsibility to address a subject of such great and fundamental importance to society in an area that has been neglected in so many ways. Central authorities have recently, in a cost-effective way, demonstrated their capacity to act in the context of a simplified language project in legislation. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and the Faculty of Law of the University of Oslo have concluded a ten-year agreement to integrate clear language into the teaching and research of the Faculty of Law. That's set of 3 million. kr annually until 2026. The aim is clear and understandable laws, regulations and public documents, which are important for democracy and legal certainty. Similar efforts should be made on tax law in order to build a professional environment to ensure a modern tax system with a high degree of legitimacy for the whole population, which is in line with the new era and takes account of the new challenges facing society. I initially chose to address the challenge to the Minister of Finance. I saw Siv Jensen standing there, but I see it's not Siv Jensen sitting here. Because, in addition to free basic research, we need to ensure that the Community's resources, such as publicly funded research, also have strong independent research environments in key societal areas. Tax is the main source of income for the welfare community. Tax policy is a central tool in the distribution policy to combat inequality and to create and maintain jobs. When universities themselves are unable to give priority to key areas of society, it is the responsibility of the individual Council of State, but also of the Minister of Knowledge. Will the Council of State take initiatives to promote the development of a strong tax law environment in the academia, which can contribute to innovative adjustments to the tax system and take into account the new challenges facing society?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e954	I'm sorry to have to disappoint the representative Grung by being here. This issue is well, as interpellations are often, so that it addresses issues that lie within both the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Finance. I'll come back a little bit later. We have a principle for research today that is sector-based, i.e. that the departments are responsible for the long-term development of knowledge in their fields. That part of the research is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance to finance. At the same time, of course, there is a more general question of the education system. The interpellence of representative Grung concerns the subject of tax law, which is an optional subject in law studies at those legal faculties. These topics are popular both among the graduate students and as continuing training for finished lawyers. Tax law is also a subject of several subject studies, such as accountant training and economic-administrative education, as well as the bachelor's studies in law, which are offered by several institutions. There are therefore tax professionals in higher education institutions than in the three legal faculties. Both Stavanger University and BI School of Commerce have built up environments with active tax law and tax-economic researchers. The BI also states that they offer a master's degree in tax law. Moreover, as the representative mentions, the tax administration has a professional environment in tax law in extensive cooperation with educational institutions. Universities and colleges in Norway have a high degree of autonomy. It is precisely necessary for them to be able to act in the long-term and strategic direction in the prioritisation and development of forward-looking education services and strong research environments. Thus, the higher education funding system is based on framework appropriations for institutions, not on the allocation of funds to individual disciplines. The responsibility lies with the Board of Directors, which is responsible for the overall activities and further development of the university or higher education institution and those who know the situation and needs best. Institutions shall put professional development strategies and priorities in line with their own strength and societal needs. The societal tasks of higher education institutions involve a responsibility to contribute to knowledge and solutions to challenges related to fundamental social issues. Therefore, the societal mission needs to be shaped, developed and carried out in cooperation with other institutions and in contact with relevant societal bodies. A fascination carried out in 2009 by the Norwegian Research Council pointed to the need for increased research in several legal disciplines, including: as a result of societal change processes and new national and international challenges. In some of these areas, we have strong legal environments in Norway that are engaged in research with great relevance to society. Others are considered small and vulnerable nationally. The representative of Grung points to the importance of the tax system for the future of the welfare state and democracy and that it is necessary to maintain strong tax-law environments in the academia. No one can disagree with that. The four-year disclosure of the so-called Panama papers helps to shed light on the challenges of tax law. As you know, and as mentioned above, the sector principle is used to finance research in Norway. This means that each department has a responsibility to assess needs and to ensure adequate knowledge-building in its fields of competence. The Departments usually resolve this in liaison with the Norwegian Research Council by financing research programmes established in the field. In some areas of the law field, such funding is available from the ministries, and the Research Council has measures to contribute to the knowledge-building in this area. I have noticed that since the late 1980s there has been a focus on building a professional environment in Norway. The Ministry of Finance has supported fiscal economic research under the direction of the Research Council, and the tax administration also contributes, together with the Research Council, with the funding of research centres in the public economy, among others. tax economy. The Tax Agency participates in dialogue with researchers in order to design common projects and contribute practical opportunities and funding to master students. Furthermore, the tax haven has been implemented by the Research Council with support for public sector PhD candidates to stimulate increased research and innovation activity. By comparison, there has been little funding from sectoral ministries for such knowledge-building in the field of tax law. Judicial science is traditionally a highly professionally oriented subject of education. As a research subject, it has become less effective. The three legal faculties have all developed plans and strategies for increased research efforts, but they point to small external research funds. The Professional Environment and the Research Council are therefore discussing the possibility of a new initiative in thematic areas where forensic research can make important contributions to society and policy-making. The objective is also to involve relevant sectoral departments and other user groups. Much may indicate that the tax law field is an area that should be given greater attention, and here the effort I mentioned in the tax economy can serve as an example. As mentioned above, many major development and change processes are nationally and internationally imposing increased demands on law-enforcement education and research in many areas. Judiciary studies are well sought and have also been awarded new places of study in recent years. However, Norwegian legal faculties cannot be in the forefront in all fields, and many of the challenges require multidisciplinary cooperation. In order to succeed in developing the strong professional environments we need, for example: in tax law, it is essential that the environment cooperates to meet the expectations of law education and research. It is therefore necessary to stress the importance of responding to the needs of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e977	I'm a little uncertain about the conclusion. I understood that it might be a bet, but we can come back to that at the end. The trades are popular, and it was really what it was also pointed to, but those who choose these subjects choose private business, because there are well paid and attractive jobs. Our challenge, and what is addressed in the interpellation, is just how clear it is to create a counterweight, an environment in the academy that can perfectly impartially safeguard the interests of the community, which is crucial for the management of both our largest sources of income and the distribution mechanisms. It is quite right that the Council of State points out that there has been a lot of effort on the tax economy, but what is important here is to be able to see the tax economy together with tax law, and it has been among the challenges we have seen in recent times. The state councils themselves mentioned Panama and the tax law. We have also seen it in legal proceedings against it, where we feel that Norway is coming back. We lose legitimacy in the population by spending so much resources on major lawsuits that actually don't lead. The people are wondering what tax system we have and what democratic control we have of the administration. Then there is also a challenge specifically related to democracy. We have increasing legalisation in very many areas of society while seeing that legal research is underfunded. The Department of Sectoral Affairs, such as the Ministry of Justice, has very little funds directly linked to the legal field of research. The ideal of research-based education is challenging. There are very many applicants for the law study, but there are at the same time strict requirements for education to be knowledge-based. When we get that imbalance with regard to both major societal challenges and challenges in being able to provide enough research resources to challenge our society as much as it does, I believe that we in this room – also in cooperation with those with implementing responsibility – need to look at mechanisms so that we can strengthen this field. Because it is difficult to launch new fields of action in the field of legal research, both in the basic subjects that are already there today, and also in new areas, which I have been dealing with in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e988	There were actually two main conclusions in my answer – or two answers. One is that the Research Council is now working on legal science – not just tax law, but legal science and research – and will involve interest groups, academia, etc. in it. The second is, the reason why I mentioned the tax economy was that it could be an inspiration, if you want to call it that, because there's a professional environment built up and had a targeted investment that could be an inspiration for building an environment or strengthening the environment around tax law. This will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and their financing. Then there are two other points that are worth mentioning. As a general policy, the government wants cooperation and concentration in higher education. Concentration in this case is probably not the most interesting, but it's cooperation, precisely because many professional environments are weak. And it is clearly expressed by the majority in the United Kingdom over several years that one way to strengthen small, fragmented professional environments is also more extensive cooperation, precisely in order to foster overall societal interests. The last thing I want to mention -- I was inside it in my post, but it's a little nuance -- is that it's important to remember that it's not just the three legal faculties that have tax expertise. I mentioned the University of Stavanger, but we also have the Business College BI, which in a letter to the Department on the occasion of this interpellation has been so kind as to inform a little about its own tax environment. They have a very strong tax environment, as they describe it. They include: for many years, the editorial work of the journal Skattenrecht, which is the leading editor in the field. I also mentioned that the institution offers master's education. There are eight to ten professionals working in the field of tax law at the BI School of Business. So if you're going to complement the picture of what's going on with the trade unions, of course, these environments also have to be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e999	The interpellant raises an interesting question. We in the Progress Party believe a good, simple and fair tax system is important to finance the public services and welfare services. There is also a clear need for strong professional environments. For us in the Progress Party, there is really no contradiction between private interests and public interests. It is for the benefit of everyone that the tax system is seen as fair and that illegal tax evasion is avoided. Therefore, we politicians should strive to create a tax system that is simple and transparent and – not least – predictable. At the same time, it is an advantage for all parties that the public has strong professional competence. I would like to remind you that the public has its own business to deal with just financial crime, like tax evasion, and that's Ecocrime. Ecocrime was established in 1989, and it was then a completely necessary grip. The usual police had low competence in financial crime, and it was not easy to recruit good lawyers, economists and accountants who could match the pay level in the business world. There is a lot of evidence that there is still a problem. An enterprise such as Ecokrim is dependent on access to heavy professionals. This must be seen in the context of the fact that the academic tax environment has been struggling with recruitment for many years. The Law Association has for a long time warned that this will be a major problem, as fewer and fewer young people are opting for academia. The Legal Association has pointed out that the recruitment problems in the field will affect the quality of education and therefore have a negative impact on future competences in the tax field. In order to recruit new applicants, the academy depends on finding the full reason why business appears more attractive. Many suggest that a comprehensive analysis must be made of why qualified lawyers choose private law firms or other businesses. Here it is close to assuming that both pay and status are likely to be important factors, but there may also be other reasons. The Progress Party will warn against directly interfering with university priorities and with policy initiatives to establish new, own competences environments. Rather, we should look at the possibilities of strengthening the legal disciplines of universities. It has been pointed out that for many years the Department and the Research Council have given priority to international and multidisciplinary subjects, and that therefore central legal subjects have not been given sufficient attention. This is a problem at several of the legal faculties. All schools are struggling with recruitment, which is problematic if they are to succeed in maintaining, improving and developing environments of competence in important areas, such as: tax law. The Progress Party has also noted that the Government of the Quality Notice presented very soon proposes a system of practical professors, which can facilitate universities' recruitment of partners for assistants. This is a good measure. We hope that the Council of State can take several sensible initiatives to strengthen the tax disciplines, and will follow the work with interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e1018	The interpellant has a point when she writes and says that there are not enough tax environments at the legal faculties around the country. Tax is the basis of the welfare state and of the business we have. That's why it's an important subject. Nevertheless, it is a little strange that the Labour Party, which for a long time – especially in the long election campaign – has been good at travelling around the West, does not see the possibility that lies a little further south, in an existing environment at the University of Stavanger. It is not that a tax environment does not exist if it does not exist at the legal faculty in Bergen, in Oslo or in Tromsø. The University of Stavanger has both professors, university lecturers, first amanunians and scholarship holders who work with and research in tax law and tax economy – it has quite a good competence. If the legal faculties do not choose to maintain or build their own tax environment, there must be scope for cooperation with those universities which do not have legal faculties but which are good in this area. I know that Stavanger has been. Public opinion can also seek consideration through this environment, such as interpellant demand. It should also be mentioned that the Secretariat of the new, nationwide tax complaint was added to Stavanger. The government's reason for adding it to Stavanger was that Stavanger, among other things. has a significant fiscal competence and that one of the tax professors at the University of Stavanger is the Vice-Chairman of the Tax Law. So I agree with the interpellant that there should be a tax environment in the academy, because tax is fundamental to the welfare state and to the democracy we know. But it should also be the case that academia adheres — or, as the youth says, ‘ hangs with’ — to the professional environments involved in the public debate, fronts differing views and gives good ideas. Let us also recognise the environments that work with tax systems outside the legal faculties, when universities themselves do not give priority to this. I think that together we can find and build some good environments even outside the legal faculties that can carry for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e1029	I think I have to repeat some of what I said initially, and that is addressed to both the Council of State and the representative of Bollestad. In the Western world, we have been inspired by the tax-economic environment at the School of Economics, and there has been regional cooperation with the legal faculty, which has put this on the agenda, which has also involved Benn Folkvord, who is a professor of tax law. He is involved in regional cooperation in the West, and he is Professor II at the Legal Faculty, so that there is very good cooperation, and also cooperation with the Tax West, the chemist in Bergen. But they need more traction, and that's why it was so inspiring to come up with a project on clear language, set themselves a goal in the development of democracy. Here it's about the same thing, that we need traction, and that of course we're going to play with the different environments. The West has started with the regional, and this may be the starting point for a research network involving more people. It's kind of exciting, and I was also a little surprised that after I filed this interview, I got enquiries from the legal community in Oslo, from BI, etc., so here it's an interest, and it's a huge knowledge. With regard to what the representative of the Progress Party said, the challenge is that there is an imbalance between the number that chooses to continue within academia and is attracted by exciting, challenging research missions and the number that chooses to go to private business. The environment itself has seen the challenges and has tried to balance by taking the different parts of the overall environment into account. Then I just look forward to the Research Council being inspired by the debate that has been here today, and is able to give priority to this – and perhaps thinking of doing so in the same way as the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Faculty of Law here in Oslo did with the agreement on clarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e1042	I would like to say a thousand thanks to the representative Grung, who is lifting this interpellation. The basic premise here all agree, namely that there are some functions, some tasks where the public as a whole, and at least the nation as a whole, need to have strong environments of competence on the research side – not just in the private sector – and also be able to recruit public bodies. A general issue is very often the struggle for talent between the public and private sectors, and it will probably always be so that the private sector can pay better in most cases. On the other hand, we know that there are also good professional environments in the public sector that, precisely because you get to work on exciting and professionally challenging issues, get into excellent environments of competence and are attractive jobs. In these days, there might be reason to mention, for example: The Justice Department law department, which is a lot in the wind for the time being and definitely has exciting things to work with. Then, as a knowledge minister, I am not able to assess overall the situation with regard to the tax-law environments in Norway, but I found in my reply that we have not had a similar structure that we have had on the tax-economic side. There is also evidence, as has been seen in the inter-pelling debate, that the professional community itself has taken responsibility, along with relevant and important parts of the public sector. I just want to end by saying that although I am here to respond to the interpellation, this is an interpellation which, of course, the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance have also noticed, and a problem that the Ministry of Finance is also concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e1055	The debate on substance is closed. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e1070	Case No. 1 was completed earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e1114	In the course of the debate, one proposal has been put forward, proposal No. 1, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals to amend the Abortion Act specifying that foetal reduction is not permitted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e1148	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal for amendments to the Mental Health Act to impose a requirement for assumed consent as a condition for mandatory mental health protection on the treatment indication, following the recommendations of the Paulsrud Committee’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e1174	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a follow-up evaluation of the changes to the Mental Health Act and to ensure that the new rules do not lead to more coercion in the services’. The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e1458	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e1468	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-01-19.ana.ud542e1485	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
