ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e54	Honourable co-representatives! The former representative of Hordaland Christian People's Party, Hans Olav Tongesvik, has passed away. He died on 16 June this year, 81 years old. With Hans Olav Tongesvik, one of the veterans of the Christian People's Party has passed away. On Monday 12 June, he set out on a bicycle ride, as was the split he was. Unfortunately, he collided with a car. He was severely injured and died on Friday 16 June at Haukeland Hospital. Hans Olav Tongesvik was a true soul of fire, with a warm heart, a clear head, and with an unusually good ability to formulate, both verbally and in writing. Tonguesvik was cand.with. from the University of Oslo in 1964 and specialist in psychiatry from 1975. As a psychiatrist, he was counted among the foremost in the country. Erling Rimehaug, former editor of Our Country, wrote in connection with the departure to Tongesvik: "I still remember the safe heat that struck the voice of the Radio Doctor." The program "A neighborhood with the doctor" at the NRK made Hans Olav Tongesvik known in all of Norway and as a popular man. His political efforts began in the Left Party and were among others. leader of the Hordaland Left Team from 1972 to 1974. But in 1975 he joined the Christian People's Party and was active here for over 40 years. As late as he was 80 years old, he was a member of the Governing Body of one Christian People's Party. He has been burdened and broken with the party in adversity and adversity and was active both in the public word change and internally in the organisation. At the 1977 elections, Hans Olav Tongesvik joined the Stortinget as a representative of the Christian People's Party of Hordaland. He was a staging representative for two periods. Both as a doctor and as a politician, he profiled himself particularly strongly in the fight for unborn life. Here on the Lion Hill he was experienced as a happy and moody man, and a distinguished cooperation politician who was busy getting things done. At the same time, he managed to combine heat with good principle and with it being clear. As a major representative, he was a member of the Church and Education Committee and the enlarged Foreign Committee. Despite the fact that a short career as a staging representative will be Hans Olav Tongesvik thinking as a prominent and competent parliamentarian. That there were no more than two periods on the lion's tray, his own was determined. He simply felt that he was too much away from the woman, Liv, and the five children of theirs. After the time of Stortinget, he founded the psychiatric assistance facility of the Frihamn Center in Skånevik. Hans Olav Tongesvik was a peculiar consciousness user of the New Norse writing language and was a leader of the Norwegian Target Team for a five-year period, where he was later appointed honorary member. Books and articles were always written on an ore-full and well-neonorous basis. He is awarded His Majesty the King's service medal in gold. To his 80th birthday, Tongesvik published the self-biographical book «Ein Refreshing Life Trip». Now is the end of the journey of life. A long working day for society and for people is over. Hans Olav Tongesvik stands as a bauta both within politics and his field. He had a burning commitment, for human dignity, for life and for doing something for human beings around him. We are many who have good and grateful memories of Hans Olav Tongesvik. It is with sorrow that we have received the message of his death. We remember Hans Olav Tongesvik for his work in the Storting and shines peace over his memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e106	The representative, Per Espen Stoknes, will put forward a proposal for a representative. [[Per Espen Stoknes brought a pipe mail cartridge on the speaker's chair.]] Before the representative starts, the President will remind you that props should not be on the roster.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e115	At Stortinget we're good at pipework. Now it is soon possible to send people and fish in pipe mail from Oslo to Copenhagen in 30 minutes. I am therefore submitting a proposal for an opportunity study on a Nordic Hyperloop initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e120	The pipe item will be dealt with in accordance with the regulations. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Stortinget derogate from the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after the cases are closed. 1 and 2 have been completed, and have then collected voting according to case No. 3 to 6 at the end of the day’s meeting. [[Laughter]] – There is no objection to the President’s proposal, and that is to be seen as an agreement. In addition, the President will inform you that today's meeting is continuing beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 will be treated together. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e159	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Centre Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Environment Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, the Minister of Finance gets up to 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to four rows of replies are given by the main speakers for each group and up to eight rows of replies by members of the government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e170	First, I would like to thank the Financial Committee for its cooperation in reaching next year's tax, tax and customs arrangements. Of course, it is important to put in place the position to be largely financed by the budget of the various parties. In this regard, I would particularly like to thank the Cooperation Parties to the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party for a good cooperation, which has led to a budgetary unity for 2018. In Stortinget, the government's main act remains in the state budget. First, the reduction in corporate and personal taxes continues from 24 to 23 pst. in line with the tax settlement in Stortinget. This is important for Norway to be a competitive country compared to our neighbouring countries elsewhere in Europe. It is important that we have framework conditions that attract companies and that they establish themselves here. That means jobs that we need. We're increasing the depreciation discount on property tax from 10 to 20 p.p., and it's important that we continue to reduce the unfair tax on Norwegian ownership. I think it is very strange that no more parties follow the government's policy of reducing the tax on working capital. On the whole coast, we now see shipyards and maritime industries with local Norwegian owners who do almost anything not to sell their local jobs abroad. Had they done so, they would have escaped property taxes, but these owners will continue to sponsor their local football, the class trip to the primary school and the meeting place of the pensioners. It's just these we want more of, and I want from Stortinget's pulpit to praise the companies that are in the storm to hold the local workplaces and the Norwegian ownership. Thirdly, we phase out the property tax on works and uses, the machine tax, which is a relief to business and makes it more predictable to establish new industries in Norway. This is a tax that dates back to the early 1900s, a time when industry was much simpler than today, and this is a law that proves difficult to practice, and that industry and trade unions, both domestic and coastal timber industries, have long been in demand. We understand that this will be well noticed in some municipalities, and therefore the government abolished a transitional arrangement with a slowdown over five years, which has been increased to seven years after the agreement. Together with our settlement partners, we have also come to the conclusion that the municipalities will be compensated for the loss of income they will receive from 2019 onwards. The government's heading of this state budget is a sustainable welfare society, and in this heading it is that the way we have thought over the last few years cannot continue. It is no longer such that our enormous oil wealth will equally be able to finance our election promises. The money we spend today has to be used differently. The money we spend tomorrow must be the starting point for strengthening the sustainability of the welfare community. This means that we need to have more money in the future or get more out of every penny we spend today, to finance more and more tasks. I would like to stress here that some of the main criticisms raised from the Right and the opposition during the red-green years were precisely that the oil wealth was used to lubricate thinly rather than prioritizing what gives the country more jobs and growth in the economy. When the rule of action was designed, there was agreement that oil money should be spent on investments in transport, research and education and growth-promoting tax relief. There's just such a priority this government is making. It's stimulating to lower the tax on our businesses and phase out the machine tax. It's not growth-promoting to drain owners of Norwegian companies for money, regardless of whether they go positive or negative, and especially not now when many people experience going negative. I would also like to use the opportunity to clarify that point 12.2. of the vote is to be understood in such a way that the four cooperation parties are involved in all parts of the point that have not been changed as a result of the budgetary unity. The changes in the ABE reform will have some impact on some of the sectoral taxes, and there is the correlation table in Chapter 16 with the Recommendation of the Stortinge in Chapter 18 which confirms the content of the four batches. Furthermore, I would like to report a number error in the setting on page 114 at the bottom of the fee group B in the one-off charges. It says two places 75 g/km. It shall be 70 g/km, as stated in the majority's motion on page 60 of the vote. The government has provided a good budget for the country. We have to make sure that investing in Norwegian jobs pays off and that it doesn't pay to fly out. We have to keep lowering the tax to people most, so that our citizens can spend more of their own money on what they want. We have to create more, not more treasure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e204	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e209	For the Workers' Party, reducing the differences between people in Norway is an objective, and tax policy is an aggravating tool. In recent years, the Right has also understood that it may be strategically wise to talk a little bit about differences. Nevertheless, tax cuts go into their fifth year. The expenditure page is increasing, and the income page is becoming weaker, and to balance the budgets, one year after another, the taxes and small cuts are being made for ordinary people and those at the bottom of the table. We have understood that the Right is concerned that one should not politicize the debate on economic differences. But the fact is that for several years the government has been pursuing a policy that actively makes the situation worse. There is now only one way to develop: more and more of them are getting, and less of them are getting. If we continue with such a trickle-down policy, we will in the long term have to choose between greater cuts in welfare goods and increasing taxes to those who think the least. What right would you like to choose?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e214	This is where the Right Party and the Workers' Party fundamentally separate layers. We believe that creating jobs is what leads to more people getting a good salary and a good income here in the country. The inequalities now go down, more jobs are created, unemployment goes down, and the most important thing is that we have a tax policy that actually makes sure that more people get into work. Where the Labour Party sees as the only solution to increase taxes or use the State budget as a device in one way or another, we believe that it is better that businesses and people get the most to keep more of their own money to create more jobs. It's not like you have to have an entry on the government budget for something to work, and we see several things this government is presenting, which doesn't cost anything at all, but which actually leads to the inequalities going down, and more people getting into work. The absence threshold is a good example of a free-of-charge measure, which leads to the completion of higher education and the qualification to enter the labour market. I think that is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e219	The representative’s argument is not correct, but no later than 14 November of this year we received a report – not from the Labour Party, but from Nav – which states that our criticism of government is real: the differences, poverty, increases in this country. The Minister of Labour warned about it in the VG, but they are not always followed up by policies to reverse developments. Coats in the wealth tax have our price for the state. The government has thrown money at the richest in the hope that it will create jobs. Unfortunately, it has not worked. This inverse redistribution has been shown to be very inefficient. If we had spent the money on creating the employment itself, we could have created thousands of jobs every year. It's not the Workers' Party's numbers, it's the SSB's. Instead, we now have fewer jobs and more people in social security. I challenge the representative: can the representative take one real example of the fact that tax policy to the Right actually helps to reduce the differences in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e226	The working party says that the most important thing for them is that everyone has a job to go to. I fully agree with that. They also say that there are several people now who are going to social security. This is why it is so important that we are able to have a new measure that does not cost anything on the state budget, but that leads to more people getting into work, namely the obligation to work for social welfare beneficiaries under 30 years of age. This is an action that the Labour Party is opposed to, but it is an action that those who actually receive it seem to be positive. You get out of bed, and you get into a job. You get your own freedom. Then we separate layers with the Workers' Party, and if I agreed with the representative, we both got it wrong. Because it is that tax increases are not the way to go if we are to create jobs here in the country. So once again, it's not the tax that finances this, it's the jobs that create the tax, that finance the welfare society that we want. The working party has obviously also realized it itself, as they went to the election of 15 billion. So kr, but it ended up at 8 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e233	The tourism industry is an industry which is particularly important for the whole of Norway and which contributes to both value creation and jobs throughout the country. Over the last three years, the majority of those who have concluded budgetary agreements have provided 50 pst. increase in VAT for travel. In yesterday's debate on the budget of the Economic and Social Committee, the representative Ebbesen from the Right argued that this was a follow-up to the tax settlement, and the justification is the ambition for a flat VAT rate. Firstly, there is nothing about increased VAT for travel life in the tax settlement. But in the tax committee - the Scheel Committee - one argued that one should be up to 15 pst. Is that what the right ambition is, or is it going to be 25 pst. as the general rate of VAT?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e240	We are increasing the rate of low VAT in line with the tax range pointed out, precisely because we believe it is more important to lower the tax for everyone, and rather consumption can be taxed higher. Now it's like travel life goes so bad by day, and this is a moderate increase. In 2016, for example, the retail sales of hotels with 4.1 pst. The rise seems to continue in 2017. What we see here is that the first seven months of Losji revenue are about 5.9 pst. higher than equivalent in 2016. This government has delivered a travel life message that has received a message from the travel industry itself. It is also the case that in the State budget we have a proposal to remove the property tax on hotels, which we are talking to ESA in order to achieve, and that is at least an offensive contribution to the continued growth of the tourism industry – as it already does.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e248	In the Barents Sea State Council, Terje Søviknes’ profitability assessment for the Goliath field shows that the present values before and after tax are not the same. This means that the petroleum tax system is not neutral. The petroleum tax system is designed in such a way that something that is unprofitable for the state can be profitable for the builders. The main reason for this is that the income is set too high. My question is whether the Right agrees with this analysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e255	This government has continued a tax regime for the oil industry that we took over from the red-green ones, and we will continue to do so. I believe it is important that we continue with the oil policy that this government is pursuing. Oil companies need access to new search areas in order to continue to extract oil and gas in Norway, and there is a broad consensus on this. Tens of thousands lost their jobs during the oil price drop last year. Then it's important that the activity comes back up again, and it now looks like it does. It is precisely the oil and gas industry that makes sure to a large extent that we have the revenues that we can distribute again to various well-being goods here in the country. I believe that it is more important now than to take measures like SV and remove the search for fusion, etc., to ensure that the oil and gas industry has a foreseeable future and to continue the framework conditions it currently has.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e262	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e267	For the Workers' Party, fiscal policy has three main objectives: Firstly, it should provide a good and secure funding for the well-being we believe it is best to fund jointly — a good school, safe care for the elderly, health services, defence, good social arrangements. Secondly, the tax system should contribute to the creation of value added and industrial development across the country, be predictable, effective and long-term. Thirdly, it should contribute to a fairer distribution. It's really pretty simple. Those who have the most must contribute the most. People with normal incomes have to pay less. At all of these three points, the Labour Party's arrangements are more targeted and better structured than the Progress Party and the Right Tax Arrangements, because we make sure that we have more to invest in what we need to prepare for the future. Norway has some major tasks that we need to work together: ensure that many more children and young people grow up with security and knowledge ensure that people can qualify for future jobs, so that no ‘going out of date’ in the future working life developing care for the elderly and the provision of health care, so that the growing number of older people can be sure of getting the help they need; halt climate change and maintain a good environment for future generations From one year to another, the differences in Norwegian policy are not enormous. We're about $4.6 billion. kr above the tax level for 2017. But for those that apply, that means a lot. In short, our tax arrangement consists of four simple steps: Firstly, standard VAT on shower and candy, so that we can fund more teachers, kindergarten teachers, school-food trial project, fruit and vegetables in school, better child protection a safe growth. Secondly, we almost double the growth in hospitals, strengthen the municipal economy and care for the elderly, stop unsocial cuts and finance them by reintroducing the property tax we had in 2013. Thirdly, we cut the subsidisation of foreign online suppliers. It makes no sense that only one has a postal address in Sweden, so you should avoid the VAT that Norwegian suppliers have to pay. We spend the money we receive, in jobs in Norway, in start-up businesses, in marine industry, in forestry, in the development of new jobs in environment and climate technology – a real district effort. And fourth, we're betting on more rail, public transport, zero-emission cars, electric ferries, carbon capture and storage, while we're financing it by making it more expensive to pollute. Our tax regime ensures a better distribution. From the Right and the Advance Party, ordinary people have received a five-year-old. The richest have got 160 times more. The working party does the opposite: no overall increase in income tax but redistribution from those who make more than 1 million. kr, for those with ordinary and low incomes no increase in the taxes that people pay most – fuel, electricity tax, alcohol no tax return on commuting The Progress Party and the Right are very upset when, with the largest assets or the largest income, they have to pay a few hundred times more per month. But they're more than willing to send the bill up to 1 billion. to Norwegian commuters, to older workers who lose their jobs, or to low wages who get sick. A good example is the increase in the nursery price. An increase in the nursery price eats up the tax cuts for ordinary people. If you have two children in kindergarten, your parents must make a total of nearly 1.8 million. kr in order to make better use of the Right Tax Arrangement than with the Workers' Party. The tax bills come in one day, but disappear into increased self-payment the next day. It's neither fair, effective or social. The Labour Party is against such an unsocial policy. We say no to the increases in the excess and rather spend the money on better well-being. It matters who we choose to set up for. When the space for action is smaller, the choices we make are also becoming more important. The right-hand side has been claiming since Reagan and Thatcher in the 1980s that tax cuts to the richest produce extra nutrition and thus additional tax revenues. In 40 years, evidence of this theory has not yet been provided. On the contrary, policies have provided greater differences and poorer funding for welfare services in all countries where this practice has been tested. The Labour Party will use the possibilities and resources of Norway. We want to create a fairer society, where everyone is given the opportunity to participate, with strong business development, where we use the whole country, with stronger communities and small differences. With this I address the suggestions the Labour Party has in the settings – alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e328	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e335	In the election campaign, the Labour Party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre – and I think the representative Giske also said the same thing: ‘About two thirds of the cuts this government has completed, we want to take them back.’ There were tax issues. Up to 2017, this government has reduced taxes and charges by about 23 billion. kr. How much is two thirds of 23 billion? Do you really want to delete this item? Can the representative exclude the Workers' Party from fulfilling its tax promise during this downtime?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e345	There is a missing essential word in that quotation, namely ‘up to’. We thought it was fair to say in the election campaign what the maximum ceiling for tax increases would be. Our competitors went to the choice of large tax cuts, now we get a fee increase after the agreement instead. I guess we were the ones who gave the clearest answer. We're going to include it in tax that we think is right to fund the well-being. We believe that it is wrong to do it through increased excesses. We're going to tax most of the ones that have the most. Our distribution in income taxes provides a significant increase in taxes for those who make over 1 million. kr, no tax increase for those who make NOK 600 000-1 million. kr, and significant tax cuts for those who serve less. We think that's the right profile. We're going to take in what we need, but not more than necessary, and we're going to take it in an efficient and fair way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e352	What the representative says is up until now, was in an exemplary way distributed before the election. What I really didn't get was: what is so fundamentally changed in the Norwegian economy that a tax increase that was necessary and fair in September doesn't turn out to be close to being necessary and fair in October?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e359	It depends on the needs we have in the years to come. The Minister of Finance really well describes in the national budget how, in the years to come, the space for action will actually be even smaller than what she herself described in the previous national budget. Nearly all growth in tax receipts and oil money use in the years ahead is linked to increased pension costs, in demography, in hospitals and in care for the elderly. If we input the defense plan and the NTP, the entire action space is used up. That's why we say that we also open up to having increases in taxes and taxes, to fund a strengthening of a secure care for the elderly for all those who need it, good hospitals and a good growth. The alternative is the Right Party and the Advance Party does in the budget of the year, namely to increase the nursery price instead. So one is enthusiastic about increasing family spending if it hits everyone equally, instead of having a system where those who have the most contribute the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e366	Increased nursery prices do not match. It hits those who have the most, most, because those who have the smallest income, don't pay the same amount. Five days before the election in the fall, the Workers' Party's leadership went out with a very concrete plan for the 15th anniversary of the election. kr in increased tax would be used in the coming years. Now we've learned that it was never about 15 billion. kr, but up to 15 br. kr. There was, however, no one else but the people at Youngstorget who neither saw nor heard in the election campaign. According to Giske, the Workers' Party will not propose to increase taxes by 15 billion. kr during this period, despite beautiful and concrete promises five days before the election. It must mean one of two things: either the Workers' Party's promises in an election campaign are just empty words, or the Workers' Party has understood that it is possible to raise well-being without increasing taxes. What's right?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e375	It is amazing that the Progress Party seems deeply disappointed that the Labour Party does not increase its taxes enough. It should be thought that the Progress Party would go to the pulpit and rejoice over it. When I'm lectured about election vows and what you follow up afterwards, by the Progress Party, who promised to remove the property tax of 14 billion. kr – there is no trace of it in the budget – removing the property tax of 11 billion. kr – there is no trace of it in the state budget – removing the employer’s fee for apprentices – there is no trace of it in the state budget – removing the document fee – there is no trace of it in the state budget – thus removing taxes and charges of 50 billion. with a budget of DKK 7 and, lastly, with a 2 billion increase in fees. kr, which goes in the opposite direction to what you said -- I think that we don't increase taxes as much as the Progress Party and the Right makes it like we've promised to do in the election campaign, and omitting the word 'until' is a little too easy to see through for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e381	I notice that the Workers' Party has now presented a tax bill in which they are engaged in making it clear that they do not increase the taxes in full. We agree that most people should get better out of it than they do with the government's arrangement, but I still listen to the representative Giske, who says that we should take in as much taxes as necessary to finance the community. We agree, but we also believe that there is one reason why taxes and taxes should be collected, and that is redistribution – to distribute from the wealthiest in society and to people most. With this government, we see that the richest move away, the differences are increasing, the richest are left with more and more, and two out of three of the richest in Norway are heirs. Then my question to the representative Giske is whether he sees that taxes also need to be increased for the wealthiest through increased taxes on wealth and by putting the inheritance tax back in place – for redistribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e390	No, we are not to reintroduce the inheritance fee. It was in the last state budget we put forward, 1 billion. kr in income. It does not determine the welfare side in Norway. The inheritance tax is actually taxes on wealth, and what we take more money on is, among other things, that. taxes on wealth – approx. Three billion. NOK extra in our arrangement. That's three times the inheritance fee. The inheritance tax is only a tax on the property at one particular moment, namely when the property goes from one generation to another. It's just as good to tax it evenly, so you get a system that doesn't have these tax adjustments that the inheritance tax contributed to. But I agree with Kaski's representative that the most important thing about a tax system, in addition to funding welfare schemes, is being effective and facilitating business activities, is good distribution. In our 2018 scheme, we have the toughest distribution we've had in many years. Those who make over 1 million. kr, receives a significant increase in the contribution to the community and those who earn less than SEK 500000 receive significant tax credits. It is real redistribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e397	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e402	Tax and tax are important for the soundness of the government budget, and there is probably also a large amount of tax and tax issues at stake in the financial debate last week. Today, there will be a slight replay of that debate. It is also natural that we discuss taxes and charges, because there are major differences in Norwegian policy – between the party that wants to reduce taxes and charges, and the party that wants to set them up, to a slightly different degree and strength. It was very satisfying to hear the line change between the two former cooperation parties in the red-green government, which is now fighting about what tax or tax on wealth should increase, and almost has a walking seminar to increase it or it. I think all of us who are concerned about tax policy are very happy that it's not the parties that, after the fall's election, will create a government platform where one discusses how to fight wealth more than to fight poverty. In the previous setting, I am very happy that the main part of the government has proposed is fixed. Many of it is based on a tax settlement that fortunately several parties have set themselves behind, whereby we go in to lower both the corporation tax and the income tax to 23 p.p., and where we also increase the depreciation discount on the property tax from 10 p.p. to 20 pst., which will be an important contribution to continuing to reduce taxes and charges in Norway. When we see the entire five-year period as this state budget is the fifth year in, under one, we're approaching 25 billion. This is a significant contribution to keeping most people and businesses more self-sufficient. I have never understood that it is being looked up to well-being. It's not that you can keep more in your own wallet or business, it means that your money can't be used for well-being. It's about something as fundamental as who is best able to dispose of own money. Is it us who are in this room, or those who are in a local government or county, who are best placed to dispose of, or is it the individual who can define what you want to spend the money on, to secure either welfare or value creation, which in turn increases the tax revenue of the state and the municipalities? That is where the big difference lies, and that is where I am very happy that the Progress Party has a hand on the steering wheel, so that taxes and taxes go down and not up. It's also created a myth that in the five-year period that we've left behind, it's the ones that have the most already, that's got the most tax haven. I am proud that we have been involved in reducing taxes on wealth, so that those who are rich in responsibility and create jobs do not have such a strong tax and the strange wealth tax. But it's a myth that it's the ones that's got the most. There are people most and most common people who have received the biggest tax credits with this government. Those who have come out of it absolutely best are those who buy themselves new, environmentally friendly cars, which is very much appreciated by the Progress Party. We know that one in much of Norway depends on the car to deliver kids in kindergarten, get involved in leisure activities and at the store. We have managed to reduce the car charges and make sure that the car is no longer a milk cow for the state, but that the car charges go to build roads and infrastructure. We are very proud of that and that we have been able to turn the car policy in a direction that makes it pay to renew the car park in a more environmentally friendly direction, along with our cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. We're very pleased with that. We are taking new steps in this budget when we are further sponsoring cars that emit little CO 2 in favour of the weight component of today's one-time charge. This makes it even more profitable to buy environmentally friendly cars, which are a pleasure for everyone. What still bothers me the most today is that we will decide to remove the machine tax. There is always a lot of fun for the Progress Party to ensure that you remove a tax completely. The fact that we can now tell industry that the Norwegian machine tax on manufacturing equipment is away from 2019 and seven years in advance is a strong contribution to ensuring new start-up and optimism in the business world. It makes us very happy. The representative Giske says there's no trace of our promise of property tax. Then I ask you to read the documents further, because there are a lot of traces of good progress party policy. In the case of property taxes, machine taxes are part of the property tax. We're taking big steps today. In addition, we make it harder to increase and introduce property taxes on houses and cabins. There is a lot of evidence of good progress party policy in this tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e426	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e431	In December, each harvest of the government’s Advance Party has received a new and relatively unexpected tax. One of the anti-business tax increases we see from the government in this budget is that they add CO 2 tax to LNG when used as fuel for shipping. The tax increase is not only anti-food, but it will have the consequence that it will harm our environment. Conversion to LNG removes sulphur and soot emissions from ships and reduces CO 2 emissions by 20 pst. Larger ships today do not have alternatives that are more environmentally friendly than LNG. Norway has a highly skilled industry, both in LNG and in the shipping industry, and several plans for newly built ships have now been eliminated due to the CO 2 tax on LNG. The increase in the levy from the Advance Party in government means that Norway is saying no to new industrial opportunities along the coast. Can the representative say a little about the background to the new tax and the signals received from the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e447	In view of that description, it is not correct that every fall industry experiences new taxes that change the sum. The industry experiences every year with us in government is that taxes and tax pressures are falling together, and then there are some single elements that draw in the opposite direction. But the total business is positive. When it comes to the CO 2 tax, it's a follow-up to a previous agreement to increase it. But it doesn't increase so much that the total business breakdown is wrong. For shipping, of which the representative was particularly busy, this government and this cooperation have done a lot, including. sets new requirements for the environment when it concerns ferry operations. We're giving in to Enova to county councils that are renewing. Much is being done in view of environmentally friendly technologies on shipping. Only in my home country, Hordaland, has the county with the support of Enova renewing the ferry park enormously with battery capacity, which means that emissions are going down significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e457	I noticed in the post of the representative that he is concerned that most people should buy their own well-being. Then I want to say a little about that when welfare means healthcare, school, kindergartens and care for the elderly, I'm quite concerned that it's the community that's going to keep it quiet, and that there's one of the best things about Norway. The median income in Norway is approx. 549 000 kroner, and of 4.3 million taxpayers in this country, 3.7 million will receive lower income tax on the Labour Party's tax arrangements than the government has provided. I wondered who these ‘most people’ who would get lower taxes with the Advance Party are in the eyes of the representative Njåstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e464	When I talk about most people, I talk about everybody, of course. What is important when comparing different tax arrangements is to look at health. One has to expect someone to buy a new car, and they get solid tax credits compared to the Labour Party's level of that. If you look at a whole thing, there's no doubt that you're better off with a tax reduction of almost 25 billion. kr, versus – now I'm going to learn the outline – up to 15 billion. kr i plus what is the Workers' Party's arrangement. It's impossible to get better out of an arithmetic problem of up to 15 billion. kr i plus, compare to we've reduced by 25 billion. kr. Our ambition is to go further down. Most people get better out of this government being re-elected, and the Progress Party is still ready to reduce taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e469	It has been taxed to those who have the most from before, with this government and with the Progress Party in government. Those with revenues above 2 million. On average, NOK 50 000 has been paid in tax bills. The 50 richest have only received approx. 1 billion. kr. At the same time, there have been tax increases for most people and targeted attacks on individual industries. About 7 billion. kr the fees increases have been made with the Advance Party. Where in the policy of the Progress Party is there a basis for arguing that it is wise to increase the fees in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e476	The Progress Party's primary policy is to reduce both taxes and taxes, which we have made a significant move towards 25 billion. kr i reduction. Then we have to be a few with three other parties to get to a government budget. Then some charges have been increased because of this, because we have reduced other taxes, for example. the taxes on machinery. There is little in the Progress Party's policy that says that it is desirable to increase, for example. the two fees, as we did in this round. But since the whole thing is good, and since we're putting down the property tax and removing the machine tax, it's a total image that we can live with very well. I'm more excited about how the Center Party says that when they've been talking about it for seven years on the inside and out of this pulpit, now it's going to be a reality, they've all of a sudden been opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e482	In the financial debate, it was repeated to the tedious fact that SV's tax and tax arrangements were going to make life miserable for most people. Among other things, we heard it from the representative of Njåstad. My question to the representative is quite simple: has the representative now had time to read the SV's alternative budget and looked at the calculations from the Ministry of Finance, which shows that a normal family of two adults, children and two diesel cars will come out with $7,000 plus compared to the government's arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e487	Of course, the representative has read SV’s alternative budget both before the financial debate and again now. I must admit that I was no longer interested in voting for SV's option today after reading it for the second time. The Operations section shows only some items. For example, they do not intend to replace their diesel car with two diesel cars in the next year. If they do, they get a bigger tax return. Only consumption is included in the calculation to which the representative refers. Once again, if you look at the whole picture and look at the whole picture and compare the Swedish tax policy with that of our five years, you'll all be better off with a party that reduces taxes by 25 billion. kr, versus a lot of people who want to raise taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e492	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e497	Some of the quality of the Norwegian political system has been predictable. It has been a great strength for us as a small country that we have not had sudden changes even with changing majority. There was a broad tax settlement in the previous period, precisely to ensure predictability for residents and businesses. There has been a high tax level, but people have known that if they invest, there is little risk that there will suddenly be abrupt changes. In this year’s budget, we experienced sudden sudden changes — not in taxes, but in taxes. What surprises me about the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, is that they are not more concerned about recent developments in the Norwegian economy. Norwegian capital has not gone from oil and gas to investment in industry, but from oil and gas to investment in housing and property. Norway as a country cannot live in wealth. We need value creation, we need value-creating industry. The industry that has invested most is the food industry. There we have seen investments around the country, and it is also the industry that employs most people in the mainland. Nearly 50,000 people work in the Norwegian food industry. That is why it is so amazing, what is happening in the tax system that the majority will adopt today, which is just a targeted attack on that part of Norwegian business that invests most in the mainland, the Norwegian food industry, with a tax increase of 83 p.m., and it turns out quite arbitrarily. It is highly distortive in its form and breaks with the whole idea that the Norwegian tax system should be predictable. You get a fee increase on chocolate biscuits of 0 pst, but on chocolate of 83 pst. The vitamin bears, which have been so much mentioned before, get 83 pst. fee increase, while marzipan sausage gets 0 pst. If you buy marzipan with chocolate, you get 83 pst. the increase of fees. It shows that the entire charge has been asleep, it has only been priced. Now there's a huge fee jump of 83 pst. which has a completely arbitrary effect on the products. The reason why it has only been priced is that it has just been seen that this fee is very special and affects individual companies violently. When, for example, He hears that Freia here in Oslo gets $360 million. kr more in the levy on its own plant, it is a casualty that does not belong in the Norwegian Storing. We have been known for predictability and security, but a high level of both taxes and taxes. But it's been safe to invest here. This type of charging shop makes it unsafe to invest and distorts competition. In today's Dagbladet we can read that thanks to the 350-kroner limit, it is a Swedish actor who exports 20 tonnes of candy to Norway every day, free of charge and VAT. It is a direct expression of an unforeseeable charging policy that premises Swedish actors and punishes Norwegian actors. It is completely incomprehensible that the four parties want such a policy. I can't believe they're really for themselves. Then there's another thing I think is sad with the tax and tax arrangement that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are adopting today. It is the great tax snipers that come to ordinary workers. When you were going to settle the budget, it was those who live in a wreckage, who were going to take the bill. Siv Jensen made a proposal to increase taxes by 750 million. kr for those who live in vomiting in Norway – ordinary workers. When the budget was to be settled with the Christian People's Party and the Left, a tax bill was to be sent to seafarers of 200 million. kr. An ordinary seafarer will receive an increase in tax from NOK 7 000 to NOK 8 000 due to the removal of the tax-free rent supplement. The scheme also eliminates the possibility for the employer to pay the cost of workers who have to stay away from home. The payment is reduced by 150 kroner per employee — a targeted tax increase for those who have to be far away from home when they work. So the government has seen, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, that there was one group that was hit unfairly, and it was the truck drivers. But what's amazing about the arrangement here is that if a truck driver sleeps in the car, he will get it tax-free, but if he sleeps in a wreck, he will not get it tax-free. It's completely incomprehensible. Therefore, you should draw the whole proposal and not create a system that forces people to sleep in the truck when they could sleep in the barn, or that it is more honorable to work from home if you drive a truck, than if you drive a excavator. What's typical of today's government parties is that when you hit ordinary workers, it's okay to increase taxes, but it hits those who have the most, you don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e516	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e521	I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e526	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum then brought up the proposals of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e531	The representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum's own batch program, which he made in this fall, says at the last bullet point on page 49 that VAT and other fees will continue to be used to stimulate a healthier diet. Then you could say that it might mean lower charges on healthy goods, but no. The representative Toppe, who sits in the Stortinget of the Center Party, said among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Why not have full VAT, 25 per cent, on unhealthy food?’ And she said, "I think we need to get a lot tougher in the diet." This means that either the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, has decided to overrule his own national meeting and his own group, which has adopted and argued for it. Alternatively, he believes that this will now increase border trade, even though it obviously did not when it was national meeting last spring. My last question is: is it that the Senter Party proposes to change the scheme of the fee that has now been rolled over for several months, or do you have the same device even if the fee is lower?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e548	There is predictability in the tax policy of the Senterpartiet. That was also when we were responsible. One of the totally irresponsible people on the Right is that you just increase a fee by 83 pst. overnight. It says in our program that we're going to continue using the charging system, and we're going to do that in terms of healthy diets, both in terms of tobacco and in terms of alcohol. With regard to the 350-kroner limit, which is a targeted loophole for obtaining candy, shower and the type of products free of charge to Norway, we seal it. But we want predictability for Norwegian business. We believe that it is completely irresponsible to increase the level of fees by 83 pst. with a charge which is not targeted at all and which is made at all arbitrarily. That fee has passed over time. When we crashed, it was only priced. There's something quite different when a sudden, like the right now, increases the fee level by 83 pst, or you send a bill of almost 2 billion. kr to the Norwegian food industry overnight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e557	It is quite right, as the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, points out, that that device was like this for eight years, with Battle violence Vedum in government, without any change. If he is so provocative about it in principle, it is a little special that he believes it is quite right as long as the fee is not higher. But my second question is: what economic theory is behind the dramatic increase in the sugar levy, while increasing the tobacco tax by 10 pst. and on spirits with 15 pst. does not increase border trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e562	In the case of the chocolate and sugar levy, it was – if I do not remember completely wrong – 16 kroner and 9 cents when we took over power in 2006, and this year – before the budget agreement – it was just under 20 kroner. It was the same before we entered into the EEA Agreement. There's been a predictability around it, there's been a security around it, there's not been any trouble around it – but it's been weird. But no parties have thought that it's wise to increase by 83 pst – and that's what the Right Now does. They're increasing it by 83 pst. without having assessed it consistently at all, without seeing how arbitrarily this turns out and how distorting it is for parts of Norwegian business. So here's Asheim who owes the answer, because it's those who increase the fee by 2 billion. kr, not us. We have a lower level of fees for the Norwegian food industry, we have a lower level of fees for Norwegian consumers, because we believe it is wise and right to ensure that we have a business life in Norway that can make money, including in the food sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e570	When the representative Schlagsvold Vedum talks about ‘we’, it’s interesting to ask if that also means Kjersti Toppe, considering all she has said from this pulpit. She has said a little this year, I have registered. But there are three things I have especially noticed that the Battle of Vedum has been especially busy with this cottage. The only thing is the vitamin bears, as he himself has said, the second is to distance Kjersti Toppes from the announcements of the last eight years, and the last is border trade, which is now the new Center Party is busy. I have seen the alternative charging scheme. There is a 15 pst increase in brandy fees. and takes in 155 million. kr extra on it. One increases the fees for other alcoholic drinks by 5 pst. and collects 365 million. DKK on it, and an increase in tobacco taxes by a total of 10 p.p., which is 560 million. kr. My question is, what does the representative believe this will lead to for the border trade, which he is now busy with?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e579	First of all, I think Kjersti Toppe is a very brilliant representative, who is raising public health in debate after debate, and she has also been able to get through this fall to get one hour of physical activity into school. Very good! Then it's exactly as Njåstad says, that we're busy using the charging policy, but it's supposed to be predictability, security, and not arbitrarily affecting Norwegian business. We do not want to create the kind of dirthole that Nestastad does, by creating a 350-kroner limit that allows you to import free of charge, free of VAT, for example. candy and shower to Norway. It's unreasonable. You can't do that with alcohol and not with tobacco, because that system is limited, so you can't do it with that kind of product. But the products that are affected here can be done, and therefore this is a direct way to subsidize the Swedish food industry and Swedish trade, and we believe that this is the wrong use of our resources. Rather, we should have strengthened our industry and our jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e586	The centre party is talking about the bioeconomy. Increased use of forest resources is crucial in climate policy, the party believes. Everything we use oil for today, we can use the forest for tomorrow. The centre batch will also have increased biogas bets. Bioenergy's main competitor is fossil oil and fossil gas. In spite of this, the party is not keen to promote the competitive situation of green carbon against fossil competitors. On the contrary, taxes on fossil energy are removed from the Central Party budget and are opposed to the very moderate proposals for increases made by the Progress Party. Why is the Centre Party countering the bioeconomy in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e593	We were surprised when the Progress Party at Siv Jensen last year increased the fee on fuel by more than in the eight years SV put in government. That's why we held back, because we thought it was a completely unreasonable fee increase that the Progress Party was at the forefront of – much higher than Kristin Halvorsen ever dreamed about and thought about proposing. The reason we chose that clarity was that we also have to look at how the charging policy turns out to be distributive, because that charge has no distributive effects, and it had a very uneven geographical profile when increasing fuel charges so much in one year. In the case of LNG and gas, it has been a wish and objective of Stortinget that one should phase out diesel engines and transfer them to more clean means of operation and that gas has given better conditions. We've also put off 1 billion. kr for the conversion of heavy goods vehicles, which enables us to convert heavy goods transport from more polluting sources to less polluting ones. So it's a targeted and good environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e600	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e605	We propose in this budget a red and green shift in tax policy, in order to redistribute more fairly and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We suggest lowering the tax on work, while proposing a tax increase on wealth, inheritance and property. This will redistribute power and values in society and lead to fairer taxation. It's a conversion for the many, not for the few. In the last four years, the tax system has become more redistributive in Norway. Those with the largest income and wealth have received huge tax cuts. In the period 2013-2017, they received 0.1 pst. with the largest wealth of 264 500 kroner in tax cuts. Riches are inherited in Norway, and that brings wealth and power together in a few. Among the 100 richest in Norway are two out of three heirs. They have benefited from the fact that, with the support of the Workers' Party, the government has removed the inheritance fee – for it is worth inheriting. It is also worth owning housing, preferably as many and expensive dwellings as possible. Today's tax system for housing is designed in such a way that it is those with the most expensive dwellings that get the most tax advantages. This is money that could otherwise have gone to lower taxes to people most and to better well-being. Today we have heard – and we will hear – that tax cuts to the richest create jobs and economic growth. It's a myth. On the contrary, The International Monetary Fund, the IMF, recently presented research that shows that increased taxes on the highest revenues are fully possible without jeopardising the growth of the economy. For inequality damage economic growth, and when IMF estimates show that economic growth in Norway is lower than it would otherwise have been, precisely because of the increased inequalities over the last three decades, it should worry much more than SV. SV makes proposals here that people with normal incomes will be left with more of their income, while those with the highest income and wealth will have to contribute more. We suggest moving taxes from work to wealth, inheritance and property. It's more important that it pays to work than it pays to inherit. That is why we propose lower income taxes to most people. Everyone who earns less than NOK 600 000 receives, on average, a lower tax with the SV's proposal. We restore the wealth tax, so that the richest in Norway contribute more to the community. We're reintroducing the inheritance fee. Seven out of ten of Norway's richest are heirs, and the absence of inheritance taxes increases differences. We also reduce the subsidisation of the property market. The most expensive and most expensive dwellings make the most of today's tax subsidies. We in SV would rather spend the money on tax cuts for most people. We also propose a green conversion of charges. Pollution and greenhouse gas emissions have a major impact on individuals and on society, both in Norway and in the world. Environmental taxes are one of the means by which we reduce environmentally harmful activity and pay to repair pollution damage. The last point is important, because the Community's revenue from various car charges has fallen sharply in the last decade. It is primarily due to the fact that cars running on fossil fuels have received lower fees in the last decade. We therefore propose to increase the taxes on the cars that emit the most CO 2 and to increase the fuel charges to make it more profitable to choose zero-emission cars. There is reason to remind the Storting that it has been decided that by 2025 all new cars will be zero-emission cars. But the instruments in the budget agreement are not close to getting us on the right track. The electric car still loses eight out of ten times when a new car is purchased. Then it is small incredible when the government has both reduced the fees for expensive fossil luxury cars and at the same time will start the phase-in of charging for electric cars. Only when fossil cars are made more expensive can you phase in taxes on electric cars. The aim of SV is not that the electric car should be as cheap as possible, but that it should be able to compete with the fossil car in both large and small car categories. That's when we reach the goal, that's when we cut the greenhouse gas emissions. That is why we are also tabling a proposal to investigate exactly that. If we are to discuss taxes from an environmental point of view, we must also talk about oil taxes. SV suggests twisting the bet on other industries and a new petroleum tax regime that takes on a new reality where we also have to take much less risk. Despite increased fees, most will benefit from our overall proposals on taxes and taxes. It is a red and green tax change for the many, not for the few. With that, I take up the suggestions SV has alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e633	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e640	The representative, Kaski, was in the field of housing policy and housing tax in his contribution, and we can well agree that there is something important in housing policy, that is predictability. SV's jump and jump policy on taxes related to housing has been an interesting scene. On November 17, 2015, we could read in the Online Newspaper that SV had turned around and wanted to introduce a national property tax, even though the opposite was the case in their programme. On 4 January this year SV launched a housing package which included: the wish to introduce a national property tax. Now, in the SV's alternative state budget, there is a desire to introduce a benefit tax on housing and to have a national property tax on secondary housing. SV’s argument has always been that it can help to get more into the housing market. We believe that you have to build yourself out of lack of housing, not treasure yourself out of it. But can SV respond to how high the tax on housing needs to be around the country in order for more people to be able to own housing in the press areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e649	I would like to thank the representative Kapur for the review of SV's housing policy. The background to our proposal to apply a tax on housing and tax on speculation is that we see that the housing market today is just ‘jumping and jumping’. Our policy is to achieve stability in the housing market. We've seen housing prices that have increased dramatically, but that are now going down a little bit. We'll see how much, it's not a goal for SV that prices should go down. On the contrary, there is something we have warned against. Our proposal on the tax side is primarily about getting stability in the housing market, which this government should be eager to achieve. And then you'll see how much that's going to mean. We have a proposal for a benefit tax on an estimate of 3 per million of the property's market value, over a base deduction of 1 million. kr. It's not much, but it's about getting stability into the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e654	The real representative from SV then confirms that we can expect ever new housing tax models from SV as prices develop one way or the other. It is absolutely not the predictability that first-time buyers or those who own their dwelling need today. In good tradition, SV has also in other areas intended to punish people most with higher taxes and taxes in their alternative. You keep going on the same old SV line that it's easier to use the money of someone else than to prioritize yourself. I see that SV wants to increase taxes by over 20 billion. kr, and in the election campaign SV's campaign partner, the Workers' Party, promised to increase taxes by up to 15 billion. kr. The Workers' Party's alternative state budget shows that this was primarily a campaign slogan, and the Workers' Party has moderated strongly. My question to the representative from SV is: Does she now feel weakened by the Workers' Party in the tax question?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e663	Firstly, I want to come back to the question of housing: it is this government that has to take self-criticism on its housing policy, because there has been a lack of housing policy. That housing prices have increased by almost 40 pst, doesn't make it easier for most people to get in. Stability must be in place. New instruments, such as strengthening the House Bank and setting up a start-up loan scheme that allows young people and people with low incomes to enter the housing market, are important. The representative Kapur will also, if he reads the SV's alternative budget, see that there is an example of prioritizing. We have prioritised more than what this government has done. The fact that the Workers' Party chooses to go to elections at a specific tax level makes it their own account. We are more concerned with the arrangement of taxes, increasing taxes on wealth, inheritance and property and reducing taxes on income. We think it's a lukewarm device, both to redeploy in society and to increase revenue to fund the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e673	The election campaign with the representative Haltbrecken in the South Trondelag this year was both rewarding and demanding – rewarding because he is a knowledgeable person, and demanding because he wants to go a completely different way from the Progress Party. One of the things he talked a lot about in the election campaign was the state's reimbursement scheme for diesel for branded fishing vessels, between 400 million. and 500 million. kr per year. There has been an important system for maintaining the Norwegian fishing fleet. Is the representative Kaski more concerned with Norwegian fisheries than the representative Haltbrecken, and is that why the scheme has not been removed from the SV's alternative state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e680	First of all, in our alternative state budget, we have a pretty big package to electrify the coast, to ensure that we get the fishing fleet on green fuel and take it into the future. I'm proud of that. I also believe that it is possible to make the fishing fleet more environmentally friendly in other ways. What might be worth mentioning is that it is this government that has put forward a government budget that strips fishermen for a number of welfare schemes, which we reverse in our budget. It is in our budget that we are getting both a green conversion of the fishing fleet, which we want to invest in as an industry in the future, and not least ensuring the well-being of fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e687	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e692	Today, when we deal with the tax and tax arrangements for 2018, it is isolated a tax and tax arrangements that a large majority are behind the main features and that follow up the tax reform that six parties have agreed on. The big trick is to reduce the general tax rate for businesses and personal taxpayers to 23 pst. The budgetary agreement between the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Government's Party is leading the government's proposals, with a few important exceptions. One is that the tax and tax advantages of electric cars – zero-emission cars – are passed on and not streamlined, as suggested by the government. It is important to ensure robust frameworks and to achieve the objective of ensuring that all sales of new cars in 2025 are of zero-emission cars. The second is that the proposed option tax scheme for entrepreneurs is far better and much more operational than the government proposed. There are important parts of what is being agreed today, the left is very pleased with. Tax class 2 will be cancelled, which left was the first batch to be proposed. The option tax system – as I just mentioned – for entrepreneurs is introduced and significantly improved, which left was the first batch to propose. A similar CO 2 tax is introduced in the non-quota sector of 500 kr per tonne, in line with the principle that the polluter should pay regardless of the emission source, as left was the first batch proposed. And we're in the driver's seat when there's an additional conversion of fossil car entrance fees, where the emission charge is higher. It will be more profitable to buy cars with little CO 2 emissions in 2018. Some words about sugar and drink fees. It was not a tax increase, neither a VAT increase nor an increase in excise duties, which was proposed by the Left in its alternative state budget. However, the left is behind the agreement that has been concluded. I am somewhat surprised at the monomanic resistance that the Central Party is putting forward to the agreement, which is being delayed here earlier in the Chamber. Fees have negative aspects for the industry, but at the same time they have a positive effect on public health, following the Institute for Public Health. The centre party itself has – among others through the already mentioned representative Kjersti Toppe – several times in order to increase sugar levies. The central part of the government has helped to increase the taxes on non-alcoholic beverages significantly. In the period 2008–2013, the tax rate was e.g. increases from 1.68 to 3.06 per litre in beverages to which sugar or sweetener has been added, corresponding to 80 pst. – approximately the same amount as the Central Party now criticises the budgetary agreement. There is nothing in the Centre Party's tax and fiscal curve jumps that surprises anymore. Two years ago, the Senterpartiet said that it was absolutely right to increase the user charge on petrol and diesel. Now the game means that it's quite right to reduce the same fee. Two years ago, the Senter party was totally against the financial tax. Now the party proposes an additional tax tightening for savings banks and other banks in addition to what the government proposes, of a net of 1.2 billion. kr – district work places are good as someone and extremely important for other district work sites. The centre party believes that it is harmful for industry that the user fee on diesel is adjusted, but it is not harmful to a tax increase for an individual industry of 1.2 billion kroner. kr. It's hard to get all involved in the reasoning here. For the Left, it is important to have a tax system that, in addition to obtaining the state fund, provides the necessary revenue for change in behaviour, which pays us more of which we will have less of, less profitable, which pays to invest in Norwegian business, in jobs and in work, which pays for the environmentally friendly solutions, and which makes it less profitable to pollute. For this reason, the Left proposes a real tax haven for ordinary people in regular jobs at approx. 3,000 kroner a year, because it's always going to be most profitable to work. For this reason, the Left proposes a significant green tax shift that allows both businesses and consumers to make green choices, because it should always be the most profitable to make green choices. And so the Left proposes targeted tax havens for entrepreneurs and the smallest businesses, because initiative and willingness to create a job for themselves and some to always pay off.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e713	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e718	The left has a policy in its alternative budget and in the party programme that should make the workers sleep pretty bad at night, but fortunately the party has not been able to get through for everything – the AFP, the sick pay and the holiday of those over 60 are at least for so long. However, with the success of the Left, more tax incentives have been given to workers, and there are plenty of people who are in the process. My question is simply: why is it so important for the Left to halve the union deduction, punish those who have a long way to go to work, and introduce an extra tax for people who lose their job?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e723	Actually, I don't understand the background of the question. If the representative had looked into the Left's tax regime, he would see that both trade union members and other employees receive a net tax relief in 2018 of approx. NOK 3000 with the tax arrangements for the left. Those less deducted from the trade union quota under the Left’s tax regime will receive a net tax relief in 2018 of approximately NOK 2500 – significantly more than the party with which the representative asks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e728	My question is not to the alternative budget of the Left, but to the budgetary agreement and to what the Left has been through now five budgets. Specifically, in the case of commuters, the commuters have been among those to be penalised by the budgetary agreements. Day commuters have received several thousand dollars in increased taxes. In this year's budget, proposals were put on the table that commuters living on set-aside should get up to NOK 10 000 in increased taxes. In the budget agreement, it was established and further reinforced, and in addition, a tax increase for seafarers came through the removal of the rent supplement – a tax increase of 7 000 to 8 000 kroner. Why is it important for the Left, as part of a majority, to increase the tax on commuters as it is done here – for people who are involved in building the country, in important jobs around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e733	I expect that the representative has looked into the big context. commuters who choose more green, alternative travel modes, as a collective, will now be premiered on the other side. And then we also have an arrangement both in the agreement and, to an even greater extent, in the Left's alternative budget, which makes it a month easier to create jobs close to where people live, so that one maybe skips the burden of driving long-range commuting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e738	I asked about the effect of the agreement that has been submitted. But over to another theme: The representative was in his contribution to financial taxation. The centre party has argued for long-term financial tax, because we believe it is unreasonable, when the financial industry is exempt from VAT, that one does not take in any of that proceeds. Then the Central Party has a completely different arrangement on the financial tax than the majority has. We propose to remove the additional employer’s fee, which is precisely what helps to hit many local savings banks around Norway. Instead, we put increased taxes on profits, which is a good device, not least in a geographical perspective. From the left's point of view, why is it more important to add increased taxes on labour through financial industries than increased taxes on profits?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e745	If the representative Gülsvik had gone back a little bit in time, he would have known that the Left was an intrusive opponent of the entire financial tax itself, standing really hard on the barricades and contributing, among other things. to the settlement partners, including the Centre Party, agree that an attempt should just be made to distort the current financial tax – which taxes labour, which one will have more of – on surplus tax, in order to avoid the negative effect. If I had been the representative of Gülsvik or the Center Party, I would have worked constructively to help get it done, rather than to make a turn that is totally unrealistic in the year zero.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e751	Earlier in the debate I tried to get an answer from the Right Representative Soleim about the distortions of the petroleum tax system, but I did not get an answer. That's why I'm trying again. In Council of State Terje Søviknes’ letter to the Energy and Environment Committee of Storting dated 4 December, on Goliath field, it says: «With today's exchange rate, the balance sheet prices above DKK 490/cases before tax and DKK 439/case after tax respectively.» Does this not show that the petroleum tax system is designed so that an oil field can provide profitability for the oil company but is unprofitable for the Norwegian State?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e765	Thank you for a proper and important question. There is little doubt that not only the climate risk, but also the financial risk – as I perceive the representative now addressing – the state is taking over the current oil, tax and tax regime is increasing. For this reason, the Left several times here in the Chamber, it is up to you to set up a party-set selection to go through today's tax system to address the financial risk in addition to the climate. Unfortunately, as the representative is well aware, all the largest parties have so far said no to it – the Labour Party, Right, the Progress Party and the Center Party. And I can also say that, of course, this will be addressed in the negotiations left to go through in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e770	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e775	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for sewing the setting together in a good way. This is also an important part of the state budget. As many people have been involved, there is a scheme by the government that follows up the tax settlement, where we lower the corporation tax and continue to lower the wealth tax on working capital. It has been clear to the Christian People's Party that we are happy since the budget came, because it helps to facilitate what we want, namely to create more jobs. In today's vote there are also several of the issues for which we were informed through the budget negotiations, and I would like to draw up several of them. The special impact of care money is that we're important. Yesterday there was a long debate in Stortinget on that scheme, and I am glad that it is a unanimous increase that will support the increase in compensation from 66 p.m. to 100 pst. for parents who withdraw care allowance and have seriously ill children. It'll be an important piece, because they do an extremely important thing for jobs for their kids and also for society. In many cases, the option would soon be an institution. I don't think that would necessarily have been the best thing for the kids, and it wouldn't have necessarily been the best thing for the social economy either. There is also a need to ensure that parents of mentally retarded people who pass 18 years of age can also receive care allowance. There are two important changes that I am happy to make today. Of other things, I'm glad that we're raising the tax deduction on gifts to non-governmental organisations. It goes from 30,000 now to 40,000 next year. It is an important signal and helps to stimulate more gifts to non-governmental organisations, which do a fantastic job for vulnerable groups, to create activity, for children and young people, they help us to have what Norway we are all so happy about. There is also a change, as the representative Breivik was in the case of electric cars. When the Christian People's Party joined the negotiations, we were most concerned that electric cars should not get out weakened in terms of competitiveness. In this arrangement, as the representative Breivik clearly emphasised, it is still that there is no one-off charge on electric cars, and that they will be even better in 2018 than they did in 2017, so we are well prepared to achieve the goals we have set ourselves. I would also like to thank the representative Breivik especially for the work he has done on the option scheme, where he and Left have done a very important job in order to get a strong extension of the scheme, which hopefully will also be important for the start-up of businesses. There is also the removal of property taxes on works and uses. I've been clear from the pulpit before that we wanted a law commission that looked at it before someone did it gripped. At the same time, we have also shown that there is a two-sided tax. On the one hand, it is unpredictable and it is demanding for business, the other it is important income for municipalities, and it is also a local democracy aspect of that matter. When we were able to exempt everything that went with power lines, and that's how it keeps about. Half of the income for municipalities, in addition to setting up a compensation scheme and a drop-down of seven years, we believe that this would be a good arrangement. Finally, I want to get into the increased price of shower and soup. I am glad that there is almost a full size that says clearly that a wanted more expensive goods in the case of shower and soup, either through VAT or through an increased fee. The Christian People's Party solution was to increase VAT, and I still believe that the burden of proof lies on those who do not believe that shower and candy should have 25 pst. VAT. It's incomprehensible to me that it should be 15 pst. I record that in the feedback, whether it's the Dental Association, the Dental Association, the Medical Association, the Public Health Institute, or so far as you go internationally as well, one is very clear that increasing the price of it one will have less of, that is, the shower and candy, the use of sugar, is sensible policy. I'm glad that when we make the general changes, with relief whether it's in terms of personal or corporate taxation, which are involved in creating jobs, we also share in taxing what we want less of, whether it's pollution, or public health and what we think is unhealthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e792	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e797	Let me begin by congratulating the fiscal spokesman of the Christian People's Party with considerable success in the conciliation. He's got more than the Christian People's Party has got into some budget – as I can see – in the last four years. It shows both that the Storting has greater power, and that the Christian People's Party in its tilt position has more influence. Still, it's the way you get something, and then there's something that has to lie. This is particularly evident in the tax regime. The Christian People's Party has proposed to remove taxes on termination benefits and not to have them passed through, proposed to exempt offshore and passenger vessels from the CO2 tax on gas and not to have been implemented, proposed to retain the entire property tax on works and use and not to have been implemented, proposed to redistribute the step tax and not to have been implemented, proposed a significant environmental distortion on car charges and not had an impact. Does the representative Ropstad see that there is a majority in the Stortinget who could actually give him a majority for most of the Christian People's Party's tax arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e806	The representative Giske forgot class 2, because I would like to try to prevent it from being removed, but it's what the representative has to say, that you can't get through for everything. I thank you for the brilliance of what we actually got into. One thing is that one could perhaps find together in some of the different budgetary matters, but the policy is more than crowns and ears, one knows that there are others, challenging, matters, and the Christian People's Party has been clear that we want Erna Solberg as Prime Minister. That is why it was quite natural for us to enter into negotiations with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left in order to achieve the best possible budget. I'm proud of the budget that lies there, when I think of the impact we've had – whether it's care money, that's promised here, or the teacher's norm, that I think will mean enormously, especially for the most vulnerable students. I think we've totally come out of it very well for those groups that we're dedicated to strengthening society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e813	With the Prime Minister's tolerance both for teaching standards, for doubling the number of quota refugees and for charging for noise and candy, one should not ignore the fact that she had lived with the fact that we had made up the entire tax and tax system between ourselves, and remained seated with her black cars and government councils. The Christian People's Party has a tax bill of 8.3 billion. kr, the working party has a tax treatment of SEK 8.3 billion. kr over the government. I think there's a lot of common goods here that are going to manifest during the period. But the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance describe in their documents a space of action that is getting smaller. Of 20 billion. kr is all tied up in retirement, in demography, in NTP, in defence and in assistance, things that we have to implement. At the same time, the two government parties promise significant tax cuts – the Progress Party most, around 50 billion. kr if you add up what's in the program, right a little bit less. Does the representative Ropstad think that tax cuts should be prioritised in this space of action, which is zero after the adoption of the plans, or does he think that we should spend the money on good welfare, care for the elderly, school and health?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e822	This is one of the most central things we're going to work with in the future, and extremely important. There is no doubt a room for action that also worries me. That's why I'm extremely concerned that we're using the space of action to prioritize what's needed. We see that birth rates are now down to 1.7. It's serious, they should preferably be over 2. We know that the most important thing is to give priority to child safety, early schooling, etc., in order to build society further. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has been clear that we want a tax level that is about like today. We are involved in adjusting it – whether it is removing taxes on working capital, or it is increasing what is environmentally polluting to public health, as we have done in this budget. We're going to work on those distortions, but the Christian People's Party is not going to give high priority to tax relief in this period. We are going to use the free role we have in Stortinget to work to maximise the impact of the policy we see that it can be a majority in many cases, but that we believe is important for Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e837	I noticed the representative Giske's invitation to work together to settle the budget with the Workers' Party. Then I want to ask the Christian People's Party what the representative thinks about the Workers' Party's proposal to remove the cash support and significantly increase the tax on working capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e843	There are two examples of things that go completely the opposite of what the Christian People's Party wants. Another thing that I am proud to have achieved through the budget, which strengthens the freedom of choice and flexibility of the families, is a more flexible cash support, i.e. an opportunity for e.g. to be able to take out cash support two days and have kindergarten three days – a completely different type of flexibility, which I think will be important for many families. This also shows that the Christian People's Party does not necessarily agree with the rest of the opposition in all matters, and we are satisfied with the implications that we have received in the budget. I would also like to thank the representative Astrup for the good cooperation we had on the budget to strengthen the matters we believe are important to the country in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e848	In those areas of the country where the Christian People's Party is still quite strong, in the South and Western countries, both the yard industry and construction are important. There are many commuters, who live on set-aside and who benefit from some support schemes linked to it, including deduction rates and an opportunity for employers to cover. Both in the state budget and followed up and reinforced by the budget agreement, there have been restrictions for commuters living in the country, with an increase in taxes of up to NOK 10 000 for some groups of commuters. Seafarers receive an increased tax of DKK 7000 – 8000 through the removal of the rent supplement. Why does the Christian People's Party feel that it is important to make that tightening up?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e853	Firstly, the Christian People's Party is engaged in politics for the whole country and not only where the Christian People's Party does it strongly, but district politics is an important area for the Christian People's Party. What struck me when we worked on the various proposals from the government, but also in the negotiations, was that much of the legislation is quite out of date. For example, when you have: talking about a rental supplement for seafarers who are going to be ashore, there is a completely different situation today compared to the one that was when it was introduced, because it is much easier to go home when you're on land. It wasn't the same possibility before. And if you have a hotplate on the hood or on the rack, it's a completely different situation than if you hadn't had it. So I'm very much in favour of the changes we're making in the budget. In addition, for example: a strong broadband gap, which has been important to us, and I am proud that we have received several measures related to migration funds, for example. to suckler cows, which will also be important for the districts. So the whole thing here I mean is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e864	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e869	I don't know if the president noticed it, but the Nettavis are very happy about – or at least concerned about – the Greens. Lookups about MDG-Lan and the Environmental Party The Gale are being used extensively as a click-angn, and it's going to be a magic party on the web. They had a big announcement that the Greens wanted 45 billion. kr in a tax increase in its State budget. It's not just in the online newspaper this is happening. But the media forget that we're moving over 20 billion at the same time. I am entitled to a fee, and I am 20 billion. kr for good purpose. It is easy to say about high environmental taxes, but there are good reasons for this. Green shifts mean a significant improvement in the use of resources in society, so that value creation rises, while environmental pressures drop rapidly. It can be accelerated by a green tax shift. But what's a green tax change? In NOW 2015:15 – Green Tax Commission – it says: ‘A green tax shift is characterised by a distortion of taxation against environmentally harmful activities. Increased revenues from environmental taxes are used to reduce other taxes and taxes.» We in the Green Party are so crazy that we take the Green Tax Commission seriously – more than they did themselves. Does the President know what we're doing? We're so excited that we want results, because it's urgent to improve the resource economy quickly. We're wasting too much. That's why we're proposing to increase taxes on what we want less of, and at the same time we give tax relief on what we want more of. That must be smart. Together, we balance the budget responsibly, with 6 billion. kr less in oil money use than the government does. Remember that taxes and taxes have three objectives — first to secure funding for well-being, then to redistribute resources and, thirdly, to pricing costs that are not captured by enterprises, i.e. environmental costs. In our tax system, the Ministry of Finance is particularly concerned about the first, that we should have a tax system that is as effective as possible. All other considerations require the Ministry of Finance to give up in order to ensure cost-effectiveness. In the Green Party, we are also concerned with resource efficiency. That is why we have made a government budget where we achieve the environmental and climate objectives by cutting heavily in the fees of the goods we want people to have more of. We're removing VAT on fruit and green and organic food. We remove VAT on repairs, so that products can last longer. We want to make it cheaper to hire people – not by keeping wages down, but by paying lower employers’ fees. We are therefore opposed to the government's proposal to increase the minimum rate of VAT, such as, among other things, affects public transport and the tourism industry. Then we put off funds to compensate for the government's increase in VAT on services. In terms of products and behaviour we want less of, we want less of pollution, and then the goal is, among other things, that by 2025 all new car sales shall be fossil-free. We don't think we're going to get there without any further tools. That is why we put in place a climate reward scheme, where we charge fossil fuels and pay the money back equally to everyone. We're introducing a CO 2 fund for industrial transport. Then we propose a more efficient fare. Then it'll pay for the companies to fill up the planes. The government is doing the opposite – cutting the fees on what we want less, making fossil cars cheaper, in contravention of the 2025 target. It's very inconsistent. In addition, we need to take tax measures to improve the redistribution of society. The Greens have a social tax policy by providing tax incentives for low pay. We increase interest rebates, provide tax deductions for the business community and change option taxation for traders. We give more in minimum deductions for self-employed persons. Low pay and sole proprietor come out better. And we're increasing personal tax for the richest. What we need is also a better and fairer taxing, with less black economy and evasion. Ecocrim is underfunded. By increasing efforts to tackle tax fraud, we can also increase tax revenue as early as 2018. It's supposed to make people more nervous to cheat. So there are three good reasons why we are proposing real increases in environmental taxes: first less use of money than the government, then shifting taxes from labour to resource use and, thirdly, increasing the taxes on what we want less of. This is good economics and good ecology. It's good for the Nordics most and good for nature. We're assuming that the other parties are getting braver through a green tax shift and are gradually joining in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e896	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e901	In large parts of District Norway, the plane is the collective offer, and the car is absolutely necessary for people to get to work and for businesses to survive. We're talking about industries that generate large values to the state fund, and that in the next round finance well-being and provide the basis for a significant number of jobs in cities, such as cities. Oslo. MDG has large fees increases in its alternative budget. Among other things, the batch will introduce a new airline passenger fee and greatly increase fuel and other car-related taxes — together with increased revenues of about 25 billion. kr in one year, i.e. slightly more than the government's total tax billing. Can the representative Stoknes tell me who is going to pay for this? And has MDG thought about what that kind of night-time tax incentives will mean for people and jobs in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e910	Thank you for the question. Let's start with the car charges. Our car charges will lead to a faster replacement of the car park. We also arrange a leasing fee for those living in the districts, so that they can more easily sell their old fossil car and switch to an electric car that is cheaper to operate. They'll save money on that. In addition, we're going to build 4,000 new electric car charging stations, so it's all over the country. This will make it possible to maintain employment, and we will have a better transport offer, while reducing the cost of public transport. In the case of aeroplanes, we also go for pollution. We've differentiated it by $600 abroad, $300 in the country where there are alternatives, and only $150 where there's no alternative. This will increase value creation and improve jobs in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e917	After all, there are some thoughts about MDG's knowledge of the challenges in District Norway. I have noticed that the MDG has a model where part of what you take on increased fees for fuel – approx. Mr. 8,5 billion. kr of it – to be re-distributed fairly to the entire population. But in reality, this is quite unsocial. In practice, it means that businesses that are struggling with margins, and people with poor advice in the districts are to subsidize people such as the elderly. Stein Erik Hagen or other privileged in central strokes. Why does MDG think this is a good idea? Is that the consideration of your own nuclear electors within Ring 3 as the numerator?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e926	The representative refers to is a climate reward scheme in which everyone in Norway is paid the same sum. Whether it is a family of young children, they get it for the newborns, and if they are older, they also get it. It's because car use brings us all a social cost for which the car users are actually subsidized. What we're doing is making sure that car use is distorted so that we get a fairer and more social distribution. If the representative realizes that this is unsocial, it doesn't match our calculations. We have also introduced some district compensation into our model, but most of the district compensation believes that we can be taken by a faster transition to an electric car system in the districts. In this way, this becomes a net transfer from the richest, those who just drive the most cars, to those who drive the least cars. It is a policy for which the Workers' Party should support the social profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e931	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e937	Red will fight the differences and ensure the financing of the Community's well-being. So, first of all, we're proposing to increase the free transfers to the municipalities by 12 billion. kr, which is more than from any other party on Stortinget. That's really necessary. Many municipalities have poor advice, the debt is high, welfare services are pushed across the borders of the proper, while we have a search warrant state. It is only right and fair that the value creation that takes place around the country also falls to people in the community around the country. That is why the local economy needs to be strengthened. That's what Red does. Secondly, we want to combat poverty. That is why we are proposing an action package of 4 billion. kr next year, including increased disposable benefit at birth and adoption, increased minimum pension for both single-dwelling, married and cohabiting persons, reintroduction of the child supplement in the disability allowance and 3 billion. kr for increased child-restraint. Thirdly, Red will fight unemployment. This is not the time for the government's wait-and-see policy. Instead, Red proposes to both increase the employment framework by more than 700 million. kr, increase the allocations for flood and racial protection by more than 600 million. kr and continue the package of measures against unemployment around the country by 2 billion. kr. We are funding the efforts with a fairer tax policy. We keep the tax unchanged for all who earn less than 600,000 kroner, and increase it for those who earn more. There's no more than one hundred bills a month extra if you make up to 750,000 kroner, but more than that if you have over 1 million dollars. kr per year. I think most people think it's right and fair that those who have millions of income are taxing something more. Increased income tax for those with high incomes gives us 16 billion. kr more to the community in 2018. In addition, we increase the tax on dividends. That gives us 7 billion. kr more to the community next year. At the same time, we are opposed to the weakening of the local economy that citizens carry out by removing the property tax on production equipment and installations. Both the organisation of the power stations and the Norwegian industrial municipalities have warned of the change. A large number of municipalities will lose revenues of several $10 million annually, not least when the compensation schemes are phased out. Last Thursday I took the trip to Freia. When you're at the Rodeløkka, you can smell up to the factory. Here it's made chocolate for 130 years. I got a tour at the factory, with the trustees. They are now concerned because the company gets an extra charge from the citizens of 370 million. kr per year due to increased chocolate and sugar fees. Increased fees may sound good for public health, but without the new increase of over 80 pst. have greatly reduced sugar consumption. We eat 16 kilograms of less sugar per capita now than in 2000. A more tangible effect of an increased levy is that chocolate and sweets from abroad become more competitive. So it's good for the border trade, it's good for the free trade over the Internet, but it's not necessarily a good contribution to public health to move sales of chocolate and shower to Sweden. This is not least bad news for the food industry in Norway and for one of the last production companies in Oslo. For Freia, it's 1 million. kr in increase in fees per job from one day to another. Similarly, there are jobs throughout the country: Borg in Sarpsborg, Berentsens Bryghus in Egersund, Brynild in Fredrikstad, Oskar Sylte in Molde, Mack in Tromsø, Nidar in Trondheim, Aass in Drammen, Hansa in Bergen – 2 billion. kr extra in taxes on these jobs, which are collected in order to finance tax cuts to the richest of the country, regards the Right-wing Party Government. In reverse countries, obviously everything can go on. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e954	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e961	The Red Party, as we have been in several discussions earlier in the Chamber, has not presented an alternative state budget, but has submitted amendments to the budget presented by the Government. The challenge is, of course, that you don't look up to each other in terms of what you give priority to, and what you give priority to. I must also point out, because it is so tempting, that the reason sugar consumption has fallen is that heavy American multinational companies, such as Coca-Cola, have invented new products, such as sugar-free showers, which fortunately have created a healthier population – in addition to large revenues for the company. But when you're dealing with Red, you almost have to look at the program that Red has gone to. Among other things, it is proposed in its own programme to increase corporation tax to 27 p.m. It is suggested to remove the screen discount in the property tax. And it's suggested to introduce inheritance fees. My question is, what in every day is the point of that, when the goal is to abolish private property rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e970	We look at changes in both the short, medium and longer term. And the latter is probably in the longer term – lifting the ownership of the means of production. In the short term, we will provide revenue to finance well-being within the framework of the economic system. It's amazing that there are so many people who make so good that by appreciating them a little bit more, it gives us 16 billion. kr more in the income of the community, which we use for, among others. providing a very high level of health care for our hospitals, with 400 million. kr more. We propose to phase in free public dental care by 2.5 billion. kr. We're proposing 12 billion. to strengthen the well-being of municipalities around the country. So here we start, but it's just a start.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e975	Yeah, that's right – it's just a start. Speaking of the fact that the representative smelled up to the Freia factory to talk about this fee increase: Did the representative also tell the Freia factory that the aim of the representative is to take over the entire factory? I think maybe they didn't get it on the invoice when the representative came and promised he wouldn't increase the fee on the goods they produced. I think – to be absolutely honest – that there is something special about Norwegian politics, because the party Red is a party that is fundamentally anti-democratic, in the sense that there is a party that will lift some of the fundamentals of a liberal democracy, namely the right to own what is its own. And my question is, since we have no alternative budget to discuss: what happens to the Freia Director or to the one who started a small business, when the representative has come into his project well and one of them chooses to say no, we know what the representative's opinion has done before? What does Red want to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e982	We believe that the employees, including at Freia, should be able to choose their own management. There are people authorized enough to choose the country's greatness, which we now have, to rule the whole country. They'll also be able to choose someone to run the company, we think. We are also in favour of introducing democracy into the labour market, which is today an almost democratic zone. The right turns around the capitalist property right, which ensures that a few extremely few, a very small elite, have full power over society's perhaps most important financial resources, and thus also excludes democracy from the entire working life. So I think it would have been well received if we told the Freia workers that in the future, with our economic system, they would be able to choose their own leadership democratically among equals and wives, and not least to experience that they will enjoy the fruits of their own work, that the added value they create, because they create the values of the company, the employees and the community, and not any owners abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e989	In the election campaign there was much discussion about social problems in Oslo, especially in Oslo east and south. We know that many poor people live – especially in a sort of red zone with air pollution, which is particularly painful in cold winter days, as today, when the air gets heavy. These are double-stranded, both in terms of health burden and low economy. How has Red intended to follow up on this in its revised draft budget for 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e994	In several ways: the first is that in our proposal, we are strengthening the municipal economy, which will not least be beneficial to Oslo, which is the largest municipality in the country. Our increase of 3 billion. kr more to child welfare will turn out very fortunate for many of those who have the least, not least here in the city. Oslo also has an underfunded second-line child protection, which is not paid for in full, as it is in the rest of the country. We're proposing that we make a full compensation of 160 million. kr in our draft budget for next year. Not least: three government councillors went to Oslo south of the election campaign and boasted of the initiative on the south of Oslo, which comes with 3 to 4 million. kr in the draft budget for next year, is at least something that we are correcting, by matching what the City Council has proposed, with 125 million. kr total for area bets in Oslo south and east.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e999	But absolutely nothing about air pollution – so what Red said in the election campaign about taking responsibility for urban development and air and environment, is now forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1004	Luckily not, in our proposal we increase the collective funds by 2,000 million. kr to ensure the reward schemes and urban environment agreements. We're proposing $1,800 million. kr to increase the maintenance and freight measures for the railway. So let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's Then we agree with the Greens that we're against spending 40 billion. tax credits to extend the 14-field motorway into Oslo from Asker and Bærum, which has been the most important thing in the capital region of the last 20-30 years. In our view, it is completely wrong and should rather be stopped, in order to spend the money on collective measures that benefit the urban air in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1009	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1015	The government has provided a budget for more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life. The budgetary unity of the Left and Christian People's Party confirms this arrangement. Growth in the Norwegian economy is on the rise, unemployment is falling, and more jobs are created. The government's policy has worked. But we can't settle for this. The conversion of the Norwegian economy must continue. That is why we still need to facilitate investment and new jobs. Only in this way can we make people feel safe, secure that they have a job to go to, secure that they have reason to look optimistically at the future, and secure that they can invest in new business. When the available hands come to work, the tax revenue goes up and the social security costs go down. We get more resources to build the country further. Therefore, the government prioritises measures that increase the growth capacity of the economy and strengthen private business. It requires a wide range of instruments. Changes in the tax system are one, investments in transport, innovation, research and education are other instruments. I am pleased that a broad majority on the Stortinget is behind last year's agreement on a tax reform. This reform is the main structural policy measure for creating new jobs. In the 2018 tax package, we follow up on the agreement on the tax reform. The tax reform contributes to the predictability and stability of business. The budgetary agreement with the Left and the Christian People's Party does not go along with this. In 2018, the tax rate on general income for persons and companies is reduced from 24 to 23 p.m. When the company and the individual decide on a larger part of the income, it becomes a little more attractive to invest and work more. The tax on the last penny earned is reduced for most people, and most for those with low income. In addition, we reduce the taxes on wealth on shares and operating resources. The impairment discount – as a broad majority on the Stortinget stands behind – is increased to 20 pst. The property tax inhibits private Norwegian ownership because it only affects Norwegian owners and can weaken investment in enterprises dependent on Norwegian capital. Investment and production in Norway shall be profitable. The property tax is a burden on many production companies. Paying taxes on property also on production equipment is an additional burden. I am pleased that we have agreed with the Left and Christian People's Party to phase out the property tax on production equipment for many companies. When we phase out the property tax on machines and equipment, there are many established corner stone companies that are the winners. Norwegian and foreign investment, e.g. data centres or other new activities at the same time increase the predictability of the framework conditions. Predictability of property taxes is also important for private households. Therefore, the maximum rate of property tax is halved from 2 to 1 per million for the year in which the tax is introduced. And hereafter the property tax can only be increased by up to 1 per million per year, not 2. I would also like to mention the new option tax scheme for new employees in small start-up companies. After the agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party to increase the maximum option benefit per employee to SEK 500,000, it will be even easier for such companies to hire and retain more. From the turn of the year, a differentiated employer’s charge for transport and energy is reintroduced. We've been working towards the EU for a long time to get this done, and this summer we got a hit. This is important for regional industrial policy. A comprehensive, effective and well-adapted tax system also means that we need to continuously assess individual elements of this system. It is necessary to ensure future well-being. Schemes that were once reasonable enough may have lost their reasons and often complicate current tax rules. Such arrangements should be removed, even if this may be to the detriment of some in the short term. I am therefore pleased to note that there is a majority in this Chamber for several good basic extensions in personal taxation. An overall finance committee agrees with the government that tax class 2 should be discontinued. The change will promote equality, labour participation and integration. The rules on the deduction of additional costs of accommodation and lodging are amended for all employees, so that they will more significantly reduce real extra costs of commuting. A significant proportion that requires deductions are commuters from EEA countries. Extensive fraud, fraud and abuse have been detected. No further deductions will be made for additional dietary costs if food can be prepared in the commuting home and other deductions are reduced. The employer's ability to cover commuting costs is tightened accordingly. The modernisation of the tax system must take over the blossoming of new market places in the new sharing economy. Therefore, the tax exemption for rentals lasting less than 30 days is removed. Then hotels and other traditional accommodation establishments will have a level playing field with those renting their accommodation through services such as Airbnb. For rentals over 30 days, the tax will be as today. We suggest that the low rate of VAT is increased from 10 to 12 pst. By increasing the low rate of VAT and giving tax relief on income, we tax consumption rather than work and saving. It's a change in the direction of a tax regime that's adapted to the challenges we're facing. The government has ambitious objectives in climate and environmental policies. In cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, we continue to make changes to the tax system that help reduce emissions. A green conversion of charges is also an important contribution to the conversion and modernisation of Norway. Over 80 pst. greenhouse gas emissions in Norway are subject to a allowances and/or CO2 tax. The government proposed a more uniform CO2 tax of well 450 kroner per tonne of CO2 by abolishing exemptions and low rates. A similar CO2 tax keeps the costs of climate policy as low as possible. The budget agreement increases the CO2 charge to 500 kr per tonne of CO2 equivalent. Motorists and drivers on the road are protected by a corresponding reduction in the user charge on fuel. The budgetary agreement agrees to continue the conversion of the one-off fee in an environmentally friendly manner. This means that the weight levy is reduced and the emission levy is increased. One-time charge on electric cars did not come this time. In addition, electric cars are exempted from traffic insurance and re-registration charges. This is in addition to changes that have already given rise to results. The consequence is that more and more modern and environmentally friendly cars are rolling out on the roads. Emissions from the car park are going down. The size has an explicit target of reducing the average CO2 emissions of new cars to 85 grams per km. We are now expected to achieve this goal several years in advance. With the budgetary agreement, total taxes have been reduced by more than 24 billion. kr since the government took over the autumn of 2013. The relief has benefited the vast majority of taxpayers, both individuals and businesses. The tax system must be continuously improved in order to support efficient resource use. I would like to commend the Left and Christian People's Party for constructive contributions to tough negotiations. But we came to a goal with a good result for Norway. I look forward to continued good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1057	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1062	The main national budget table may be on page 52. It describes the room for action in the budget for the coming years. Last year, the description was a 20-billion-billion-dollar action room. kr. Now this is reduced to 18 billion. kr – tax increase of 15 billion. kr, oil revenue of 3 billion. kr. Of these, 18 billion. kr is 14 billion. are linked to population and demographic costs in municipalities and health enterprises. That leaves us with 4 billion. kr per year to spend on everything else. Of this, the NTP shall be covered, the defence plan shall be covered, the aid budget shall be covered – only the three things together exceed the 4 billion. kr available. This was written before the selection. They knew about these numbers before the election. Nevertheless, Siv Jensen in the election campaign says that according to her own program, you should give 50 billion in total. kr. Even if the number wasn't said, it sums up. Where's that money to be taken from? What welfare costs are to be cut to create room for 50 billion? Is this a treasure trove?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1069	It is absolutely right that the government in several documents to the Stortinget has pointed out that the action space in the future is going to be less than what we expect in the last few years. However, it makes policy priorities even more important. Then it's about facilitating growth in the economy. As the economy grows, we get more room for action. This is about being more efficient to streamline and re-prioritize, and it is of course also about continuing to implement reforms – structural measures and other reforms – that can free up areas of action that we can use to improve the competitiveness of our business and to use to improve the well-being of our society. So it's completely possible to do that, but then we also have to be willing to give priority. Then we have to be willing to say no to something to say yes to something else, and it is a little difficult to see traces of that willingness of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1074	Now, none of these tax cuts come in 2018, perhaps with the exception of the half billion on property taxes in the municipalities. That means that it remains approximately. 16.5 B.C.E. kr extra in tax cuts every year for three years to fulfill this, and so you have a zero space for action. And I repeat the question: when Siv Jensen went out in the election campaign with the programme of the Advance Party – with the removal of the property tax, with the removal of the municipal property tax, with the removal of the document fee, with the removal of the employer's fee for apprentices, with the removal of the air passenger fee, with reduced car charges, etc., which together is 50 billion. kr – she knew that this could not be done. Alternatively, she's wearing the sleeve cut for 16.5 billion. kr. The space for action is increasing every year, the tax growth is increasing by 15 billion. This must be aimed at the policy pursued by the Progress Party and the Right. That's the growth you create in the economy. You might be able to get it up to 17 billion. kr, or up to 20 br. kr, but there are still many, many billions to implement the tax commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1081	When the representative Giske wants to represent what I and others have said in the election campaign, he gets to do it correctly. I have never numerically attached the ambitions of the Advance Party in terms of reducing taxes and charges during this large-scale period. But what I've been very clear about is that the tax and tax pressure is going down, not up. That's where we separate layers with the Workers' Party. The Labour Party went to the elections to increase taxes, we went to the elections to reduce them. I mean, as I also said in the financial debate, the easiest thing in the world is to stick the suction pipe into other people's pockets to finance things you want to do. I mean, it's a bad idea. I rather believe on the contrary that we are able to have a competitive tax system and to facilitate that most people can live from their own economy, it contributes to stronger growth in the economy, which frees the room for action so that we can continue to strengthen the well-being of the Norwegian economy in the future. I think that is a much better recipe than taxing businesses out of the country or making it more expensive than necessary for ordinary families to get the household to go around.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1088	I then understand that the programme of the Progress Party was not meant to be serious, it was just to indicate a direction – stupid then that the conciliation even goes in the opposite direction of what was indicated. I have another question for the Minister of Finance. We've had, we'll say it like this, a little noise around the Statistical Central Bureau this fall. The Supervisory Committee shall now consider whether the suspension of the Executive Director of the SSB was being properly conducted. My question relates to the activities of the SSB, which is financial under the Ministry of Finance. One of the reasons the Minister of Finance has used was that Meyer reorganized the SSB so that the societal tasks are weakened in violation of, among other things, what is happening. LO and NHO have recorded. Here in the Storting, we have repeatedly mentioned the need to secure the SSB models, not to introduce these neoliberal micromodels, and to use the apparatus that SSB has had, not least in the Technical Calculations Committee. Is it so to understand that the Minister of Finance now agrees with the view that the role of society, model apparatus, of the SSB is to be maintained and maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1095	Let me first say that I am serious about the Progress Party program. The national meeting of the Progress Party has adopted it, and my job as party leader in the Progress Party is to facilitate the implementation of it as much as possible in negotiations with other parties. But once again, the Progress Party has a completely opposite direction of the Workers' Party. We want to reduce the overall tax burden in Norway; the Labour Party wants the opposite. It's an honest thing, but we saw what the voters' judgment over it was. One wanted a business-friendly government that was concerned with reducing taxes and taxes, not a government that intensified them. With regard to the question of the SSB, the government is committed to ensuring that all state agencies operate well within the limits assigned to them at all times. It is also important that all departments follow up the instructions provided through letters of allocation and through the conclusion of contracts, for which etatholders are also responsible. Otherwise, I look forward to answering questions from the control committee when the hearing takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1104	It is an imagery practice that the Minister of Finance uses, like ‘sucking into the pockets of people’ and things like that. And if there's something Siv Jensen has tried on in this budget deal, it's, in her words, "to have suction pipes into people's pockets," for example. by the fact that everyone who lives on a settee – because it is a form of luxury – gets an impression from the Advance Party – will receive much more tax. In this budget statement, those who have to pay the bill, those who have to commute, those who are a lot from home, are the ones who have been deducted from everyday life to go a little bit more into it. It's $1215 million. kr. It did not promise Siv Jensen in the election campaign – that seafarers would get the big tax bill, that commuters would get the big tax bill, that those who drive a truck and live in a wreckage would get the big bill. Why has it now become so good Progress Party policy – that it is in ordinary workers who sleep from home, that the suction tube should be choked?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1109	What I promised in the election campaign is what the government does — year by year — to reduce the overall level of taxation and taxation in Norway. And here, too, the Center Party is going the opposite way. In its 2018 plan, the Centre Party has proposed to increase taxes by 6 billion. kr. So Vedum would like to make himself tall and dark attached to a single tax or a single tax, but that's the total tax burden on business, which means something. One should try to be concerned about the consequences of the sugar levy, but to increase the wealth tax by one and a half billion kroner has consequences for the jobs in the districts, for the profitability of our business, for our ability to continue to have Norwegian-owned businesses around in many important corner stone municipalities. It's important to us. That's why we keep lowering the total tax burden, and it's a very honest thing that the Senter party is going the other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1114	What is quite classic for the policies of the Progress Party is that the tax benefits that the shipowners have had are passed on, while the tax benefits for those who work with the shipowners are removed. That's the problem with today's government, that you have targeted tax incentives for people most, while they are the owners, who have got some of the targeted tax cuts. We believe that the tax profile contained in the government's proposal is fundamental error, where ordinary workers receive more tax. In our approach, ordinary workers – all who earn less than SEK 750,000 – will receive less tax. Why does Minister of Finance Siv Jensen think it is right that the truck driver sleeping in the car should still get the advantage, while the truck driver who has had an employer who has built a wreck should lose the advantage? What is the logic of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1120	I think it is right to phase out systems that have expired, schemes that were introduced at a completely different time, when the needs and challenges were different than they are today. The reason why it is important to do so is that it frees up money that we can spend on general tax reductions that strengthen value creation in the country, which strengthens the profitability of our businesses, which makes more companies establish themselves in Norway, which makes more people come to work, and which makes more people in that tax position rather than social security. I think that is a good policy. It's wrong when the representative Vedum claims that this government has given tax incentives to most people. That's just not right. Most of the proceeds we've spent on reducing taxes and taxes have gone to ordinary people and businesses. You have to be able to have more thoughts in your head at the same time: we have to reduce both the tax on households, which is about making it more profitable to work, and reduce the tax burden on our businesses, so that they are here, and that we do not tax them out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1127	This government has reduced taxes by 23 billion. kr. They would probably have reduced them further. But that's not how you can distribute tax cuts without going beyond anything else. There are usually two alternatives: either someone else has to pay more taxes, or you have to cut well-being. The Minister of Finance here tries to explain the effectiveness, but the reality is that Norway has a third option, which this government has shown to be using — increasing the use of oil money. Had it not been for the strong increase in oil money consumption, this government would never get through 23 billion. In the case of tax cuts, mainly to the richest in Norway. So lubricating the tax cuts with oil money is not a permanent solution. Someone has to pick up that bill. My question to the Minister of Finance is whether she is concerned that this government is sending the bill for its tax cuts to future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1134	No, I'm not worried about that, because it's simply a completely wrong claim. Rather, it is the opposite that future generations will benefit from the fact that we have a well-functioning economy, that we have businesses that can employ our young people on the day they leave school, that we have a school system that allows them to complete, so that they are attractive workers for future businesses. I would be much more concerned about the consequences of the proposal SV has put on the table – an increase of over 20 billion. kr. Not only does the party SV propose to increase the wealth tax – we know that SV is in favour – but they also propose to increase the dividend tax, i.e. a tax that you have to pay in order to afford to pay taxes on wealth. So it's a double penalty! The question is then: How in all days has SV planned to ensure that we have Norwegian companies and jobs in this country in the future that can contribute to financing the welfare of SV spends all its money on?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1141	I would also like to thank you for the cooperation around the budget. I am glad that we have put in place an increase in the price of shower and candy. Essentially, it is a charge that makes a good deal. The vast majority of products are unhealthy, but we have also seen, not only this year, but also earlier years, that some of the products that end up in this category. Is the Council willing to look at, for example: a low rate of the sugar-free and a high rate of what should obviously fall within the charge? Everyone knows the issue of the boundaries, but can you look at whether you can target it even better, so that the effect of the charge gets even better, and that the public health aspect hits even better than it does today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1146	I understand well that the Christian People's Party is proud to have had an impact on this one great tax boost that they promoted in their alternative budget. This was basically not what the other three cooperation parties were for, but for which the Christian People's Party has now come through. I agree that this excise duty has some adaptation challenges. They have been there since the morning – this is a fee we have had in Norway since 1922 and that alternate governments have managed over time. Some governments have increased it over time, but no one has really been able to find good answers to better adjust the system of the fee. I believe that it is natural that we take a new round and look at it. It is also worth mentioning in this debate – because it sounds like the Central Party has a crusade against this – that the Centre Party will cooperate with the Workers' Party, which has proposed exactly the same thing as the Christian People's Party. It'll be exciting to see who wins such a draw in the future. You can just wonder about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1155	The Minister of Finance just justified the tax increase on public transport with a green tax shift, where the money could be transferred to a lower tax on income. Increasing the low rate of VAT is affecting public transport hard and provides for an increase in the price of collective tickets. At the same time, the use of fossil cars is actually cheaper, with about a quarter of them. Three billion. kr in reduction since 2015, e.g. re-registration tax and non-priced fuel taxes. My question concerns a tax policy where fossil vehicles are made cheaper and public transport more expensive: is that what the Council of State means by a green tax shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1162	First of all, the statement is not correct. There are good compensation schemes in the field of public transport, from which the vast majority of actors will come out neutrally with the schemes in place. As a result, what the four cooperation parties have done in connection with the conversion of car charges over the last few years gives a much faster pace of replacement than what we could dream of. So we've achieved the goals we've set at a much earlier date than we thought. The replacement of the car park is fast. But we have to get on the road that these cars do not change themselves. They're replaced because people can afford to do it. Therefore, it is a matter of charging as an instrument, pricing, meaning whether ordinary families and households can also afford to help reduce emissions by driving cars that emit less. That's why it means that we reduce the fees, and that's why we see the results coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1169	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1174	If we are to succeed in the green shift, tax policy is one of the most important instruments we have. In the case of good and sensible use of tax policy, especially environmental taxes, we must ensure that the polluter pays, it must cost to make poor environmental choices. We need to stimulate the choice of environmental solutions and thereby also stimulate the development of new technologies, reduce volumes and prices – which can provide an additional opportunity for new jobs in new fields, and which can help us to take a good stand against the competitive situation we face when requirements become even more stringent both nationally and internationally. These tools are most effective where good alternatives are available. Therefore, it is important that you constantly have a dynamic approach to what is the right level, what are the right approaches to what kind of alternatives it is possible to use. A very good example, which has been mentioned several times today, is many years of good policies to promote the sale of electric cars. We are pleased that the Right and Advance Party failed to impose a tax on the weight of an electric car – this is because we believe it is still a long way back. The Council of State just said we've come a long way. Norway is in front of the world in many ways when it comes to new car sales, but it is still the case that most do not choose an electric car. If we look at the total volume of cars in Norway, it's actually just 4 pst. of the electric vehicle park. It is precisely because there is a long time between each time you renew your car. This means that you have an inheritance – and you are bound to a level of emissions and a car park for many years to come. Even if we reach the goal that we've set ourselves, that all new passenger cars in 2025 are electrical, we'll still have an inheritance. Therefore, we still need a clear and clearly positive special treatment for electric cars. This applies to all classes. When we are concerned about the proposal to impose a weight tax on electric cars, it is precisely because increased weight will also be very much linked to the larger battery package and thus longer reach. Weight has a different effect on the electric car than on other cars. If you have a large diesel car, it is not only large in volume, but it also has a large engine that pollutes more. If you have a large and heavy electric car, it can be a family car you can drive all the way to the cabin, which can be the family’s first car – not as in some cases today: car no. 2 for urban use and shorter journeys. In addition to a good tax policy in this area, which maintains the difference between electric car and fossil cars, there is a good policy to build charging infrastructure. Based on the same reasoning, we believe that it is not right today to remove the exemption for LNG in the case of a CO 2 tax. The point of tax policy in this area must be to reward what pollutes less and to punish what pollutes more. In some segments of maritime transport, the choice of LNG vessels will still be better than one existing alternative, diesel or heavy oil. It'll change over time, but today it's the right position. Finally, I would like to say that these questions, about listening to the ideas – at least the essence – of the Green Tax Commission on a further distortion of tax policy in the green direction, also become important when we are going to discuss the tax notification next year and have a discussion about our circular economy, how to reward re-use and, in this way, tax the throwing of things that could have been re-used. This is also an important part of the charging policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1190	Norway is a country that, up through history, has made amazing things. When we tamed the hydropower, it was the basis for revolutionizing everyday life to ordinary people by having access to electricity, but it was also the basis for building amazing industrial adventures like Hydro and Elkem. The technology and knowledge we had about using just a stone to hold back water was also one of the things that was used when we found oil and gas in 1969, which in turn enabled us to build the huge foundations under the oil platforms, and which thus provided the basis for a fantastic growth story that raised Norway from poverty to wealth. The technology we used, and the way we figured out how to transport these oil platforms out of Norwegian fjords, also made us realize that there was countercurrent in those fjords, which in turn made someone think about putting the net in the fjords, putting fish in there, and so we had the farming industry. Time and again, Norway has proved that we are a country with the ability to create opportunities and to create wealth. Sometimes it sounds like Norwegian wealth comes out of luck, it comes from where our country is, or what happens to be on the seabed from millions of years earlier. But that's not the case. The situation is that Norway, as a nation, has built up, precisely because ordinary people have invested, worked hard and created values and jobs that have benefited an entire nation. In the extension of that, we are now adopting the fifth common budget between the four non-socialist parties, a budget that just takes up some of what is a basic Norwegian value: the value of your work should also be yours. It's worth your while. It's worth your while to bet. The sum of these five budgets is a reduced tax burden of over 24 billion. kr, which means that ordinary families, people who get up and go to work, but also he or she who had the good idea out in the districts, are now left with a little bit more in the wallet, a little better bottom line, which allows them to invest a little more in new jobs. This has also led to the fact that tax revenue to Norway has actually increased, even though the tax burden has decreased. It's precisely because more people work, and more people create. In the discussion here, which this time is about taxes and taxes, it can sometimes be heard as if this is a pure tool. The left has provided alternative budgets in which they overwhelm each other in whom to charge as much tax as possible. The Labour Party has even said in this debate that the tax burden must be adapted to the needs of the public. It's actually not that simple. Tax policy is also a value policy. It's about how much the state is going to be able to take in, and how much is going to be yours, of what you've created. Nevertheless, we should not only reduce taxes, but also discuss how we should establish the tax burden within the level of taxation that we jointly adopt. That's why we say on the one hand that we're lowering taxes to invest, to work, to create, but at the same time we've increased some of the charges, for example. to pollute, to ensure that we also have a society that is sustainable for the future. The Norwegian success is not only that people have worked hard, but that we have also gone together by creating a welfare society that makes us, for example. have had access to free education, that we have built infrastructure, and that we have done the things that have jointly created Norway as a nation. That is why it is very gratifying that the tax revenue that we also receive from this budget is being invested in the long term for the future. Overcoming the long-term research plan is a long-term approach to ensure that Norway also has industries, jobs and values in the future. It is impossible for some, even the Ministry of Finance, to enter a classroom and count on who in the class that in 20 years is going to be Norway's largest employer, or count on who in the class that in 20-30 years is going to find the cure for a disease that has killed or plagued too many people over too long. That's why investing in knowledge is to invest in the future, because it gives each human being the opportunity to reach as far as it can. The fact that we invest in transportation makes us invest in some of the things that are the circulation of blood in the very value creation that ordinary people create all over the country. The fact that we invest in health buildings makes it possible for more people, when they actually get a challenge, to recover in a safe and good way. We are a country that has made us rich, not taxed us to wealth, and fortunately that is something that the majority in this room today is going to confirm by keeping the tax burden lower than last year, but at the same time it is going to be easier to create and work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1209	Taxes and taxes finance a large part of society’s common resources: kindergartens, schools, roads, police, defence and hospitals — to mention something. That's how long it's been, and that's how it's going to be in the foreseeable future. But these taxes and charges also finance more than the common good. They can help maintain an unnecessary amount of bureaucracy. They can prevent politicians from making difficult priorities. And they can make you push the bill over to ordinary people for measures that are sometimes totally unnecessary, or that adult people could have paid more for themselves. When we lower taxes and taxes year after year for most people and businesses, we do it because we believe in people. We believe that it is possible for Mr. Hansen and Mrs. Iversen and their families to dispose of a little more of their own income and wealth for their own good, and also for the benefit of the community. With freedom comes responsibility, and responsibility gives sensible choices. Obviously, the voters think this is a model that produces results that give growth, prosperity, and confidence in the future. In a clear choice between 15 billion. In September this year, the people said clearly. In retrospect, we have heard that there was a communication around the 15 billion there was something wrong with it. I'm not so sure. I think the Norwegian people are tired of politicians putting the suction pipe into the wallet of ordinary people to finance something or someone. The opposition will probably claim that there is oil money that has paid for fun. Well, if that's what the Workers' Party says, that we've increased the use of oil by thousands of billions, then the Labour Party has voted for 960 of those billions. In spite of this, they have not managed to get excited. Every year we have followed the rule of action, as the Workers' Party introduced at the beginning of this millennium – not just for how much to spend, but even more importantly: what to spend on, an area of the Workers' Party failed on its own. We have focused massively on growth-promoting tax havens, infrastructure and investment in research and development. That is what will equip the country for the future and new economic everyday life. Since the government change, including next year, we have reduced taxes and taxes by about 24 billion. kr. It's a significant amount, but we're not done. We want to give the people even more power over their own money. Despite these tax reliefs, we have also been able to finance important welfare services. It must be a paradox for the Workers' Party and the rest of the opposition that it is actually possible. At least as long as I've been interested in politics, the left side has presented a false dilemma between tax cuts and welfare, now at the latest in the election campaign. We've proven that it's not like this: In spite of 24 billion. In tax relief, we provide three times as many teachers as possible for continuing education as before the 2013 elections. In spite of 24 billion. In the case of tax reliefs, municipalities received their best results in 2016 in this millennium, and never before have fewer municipalities been on the ROBEK list. The reconciliation queue has ranged from 1,200 people to being away in practice today. The police have received 1,300 more operational police posts. The transport budget has increased by over 60 pst., and we are building roads better, more efficient and cheaper than before. We have launched 28 packaging courses for cancer. The waiting time for treatment in Norwegian hospitals is falling, and today there are 70,000 fewer in hospital queues than when we took over. Unemployment has fallen every month this year. In my home state, the South-Trøndelag, the registered unemployment rate is 1.8 pst., the lowest in 30 years. Pensioners get to keep more of their pension than before, and the free-card limit and the BSU ceiling are increasing. We've almost doubled the commercial R & D instruments. The long-term plan for research and higher education has been launched and systematically followed up in each budget afterwards. All of this despite – or rather because of – 24 billion. kr in tax reliefs to most people. I am pleased that the Labour Party has finally seen this, and that they do not follow up their promise from the election campaign to increase taxes by 15 billion. kr. Now, all of a sudden, it's 8 billion. kr which is the charity and which is intended to finance all good promises and promises. There's a lot, though, and that's more than what's necessary. I'm glad the majority chooses another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1262	The centre party believes in all of Norway, and then one must also use the tax policy to facilitate people living and working across our country. We need to facilitate those who want to take the demanding jobs in order to make use of the rich resources we have, both to land and to water, through, among other things. strengthening targeted measures for different industries, whether agricultural deductions, fishing deductions, seafarers’ deductions or other schemes, such as: special deduction for Nord-Troms and Finnmark. We also need to contribute to predictability, we need to strengthen the industry we are going to invest in – and not give them overnight tax shocks, as there have been several examples of, at the latest, in this budget agreement. And we need to make sure that those who take these jobs, those who are away from their family and their home over time, who live in a wreckage or in their truck, are actually valued, that it is arranged, and that you do not get a tax return of NOK 10,000. The Central Party wants tax relief for most people. In our alternative budget, anyone who earns less than SEK 750 000 will receive significant tax relief compared to the current year – up to over NOK 2000 for some of the income groups – while those who earn more than DKK 750000 will receive a tax increase. This is a clear distribution profile in our setup. In his intervention, the representative called for substantial improvements to be made to the proposal on machine taxes through the budgetary negotiations. However, it shows how this case was handled: first, a proposal from the government was made – without any legal selection having looked at the matter. Then new limitations were made through the budget agreement – without it being the subject of an open process. So once again stood with the result one now has, where one, among other things. sees that the municipalities are deeply concerned about the job of compensating for the loss of income and the large job to be done for the purpose of repatriation. I hope that the majority will at least respond to the demand made by KS regarding the re-entry and timing of this. But the best thing you could have done is – when you're going to make changes – to do it through a legal selection and to make a knowledge-based and predictable change. The centre party makes other changes to the business community that contribute to the strengthening of business. Now almost every representative from the government parties has been up here and talked about the machine tax. With the device in the budget agreement, it is estimated that approx. Half a billion dollars in relief. Four times as much is the increase in the levy on sugar and chocolate and the increase in the levy on non-alcoholic beverages. The tax message given to business by increasing depreciation rates when a cancelled initial write-offs last year was only 1.8 billion. kr. The Government, which in the Sundvolden Declaration said that one would review and improve the tax depreciation rules in order to make Norwegian business more competitive, has provided the very opposite by providing a large extra bill to those who want to invest in Norwegian industry, invest in machinery, invest in other material. So they're going to have an extra bill, but they want to contribute, among other things. for new and green investment in industry. The centre party wants to use depreciation rates as an important tool to strengthen industry – increase depreciation rates on ships, increase depreciation rates on vehicle trains. To conclude, power plant taxation: it is important to ensure a balance between power plants, the host municipality and the state. Unfortunately, the balance sheet has changed over time. Therefore, the Centre Party considers it important to increase the natural resource tax, reduce the rent tax, remove the maximum and minimum tax on property in power plants and not least reduce the capitalisation rate to 3 pst. for property taxes on hydropower plants. These are also important measures to strengthen power stations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1279	The government of Solberg has financed every harvest reliefs in the wealth tax with ever more creative tax increases and with unworthy cuts for weak groups. For the Workers' Party, the aim has always been to use fiscal policies for cohesion. It's necessary, because there are so many other mechanisms in our society that make those who have a lot get more. Therefore, the Workers' Party wishes to tax the income of ordinary people in a way that is different from that proposed by the government in this budget. Most people will get lower taxes on their income if the Workers' Party decides. There are 4.3 million in Norway who pay taxes. The working party gives more tax relief than the government gives, up to income of NOK 750000. That is, 3.7 million of the taxes we have in Norway are taxed less with the Workers' Party. For the Workers' Party, it is obvious that greater differences in the economic space between people give rise to a social development that we do not want. Small differences have caused many to participate in our society. We have a strong sense of equivalency between people. It has given low crime, and it has given equal opportunities to realise its potential. At the same time, good income to the community has ensured that basic well-being such as school and kindergarten, health care and care for the elderly is available to all, regardless of the private economy. When there is a big difference between the welfare of those who have a good economy and those who don't, we lose something valuable in Norway. Policies shall ensure good development. What we see in the autumn budget is a government that does not intervene in economic policy. Then we have not taken control of the most important features of the development. We want to distribute the resources differently. If we had managed to improve children and young people's living conditions and schooling, so that half as many as today have ended up as young people, we could save society for billions. Therefore, the Workers' Party will spend money on the major challenges. It makes it necessary for us in this budget to take the level of taxes on wealth back to where it was in 2013. When the 1,600 people in Norway who had a fortune of over NOK 100 million have received NOK 575,000 each in tax bills since 2013, we are using the future money incorrectly. The tax havens have not produced results in the form of more jobs or economic growth. On the contrary, investment in business is historically low. What we know is that it has helped to increase the differences and the budget deficit. Nav says in a report of 14 November this year that the economic differences in Norway are increasing. Although the large majority of Norway has a high standard of living and good living conditions, inequalities have increased over time. For the last three years, those with the lowest income have not taken part in the growth of income. On the contrary, they have zero growth. The 20 percent that have the highest income in our country has almost four times more income than the 20 percent that have the lowest. The most important things in life must be the most important things in politics. We are all concerned with preventing and reducing child poverty, and the most important measure we can take to prevent it is to ensure that many are at work, and that everyone has a wage they can live on. It is then worrying that employees who serve at least in Norway have not had wage increases since 2008. The Labour Party will therefore spend the large amount of money on what we consider to be the main challenges in its alternative budget. The first of them is getting more people to work. If today's employment rate had been as high as four years ago, 73 000 more would have been working. That would give us important income. The second challenge is that we need to ensure an even safer growth for children and young people in Norway. Thirdly, we need to be able to solve the care problems that we know will increase in the future, and fourthly, we need a more offensive climate policy. That is what we believe our alternative budget is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1294	I have to say it's quite incredible to hear one of the workers' party representatives come up here and talk about unemployment without even mentioning in a serious way the price fall we had in the oil, and what challenges it brought, and how the government has actually met these challenges in a good way. It becomes a little strange to have a tax debate and unemployment debate without addressing it. I think it would have dressed the Workers' Party a little better to remember such things when you accuse others of not having done enough. Financial policy has been actively used in recent years to combat unemployment and generate growth. Together with low interest rates and a marked improvement in competitiveness, this targeted policy has helped to bring growth up and unemployment down. I am pleased that the parties on the non-social side have reached agreement on the budget for five consecutive years. Taxes and charges are also a central part of these agreements. The key elements of the government’s 2018 tax and tax proposals are clear. We reduce the income tax from 24 to 23 p.m., in line with the tax reform, and the property tax valuation discount is increased from 10 to 20 p.m. Other positive points from the consensus are the gift deduction, which strengthens the volunteer. And even if you increase the CO 2 tax, fuel is protected by reducing the user fee on fuel accordingly. The latter is particularly important for the districts, where people depend on cars, both private and business. We live in a society where trust between voters and states is high. Most of us pay their taxes because we think it's important to maintain the welfare society we live in, and the common good we have. When politicians demand other people's hard-earned money, people must be able to rely on the following: that the money is spent for the best of the community, that the political parties do not charge taxes and taxes to fulfill their own ideological dreams, but to provide the best services for the individual, and that politicians do not use the people's wallet as a simple source of income because politicians themselves do not have the ability to prioritize. This government reduced taxes by nearly 23 billion. kr in the previous period and continue in the same track. This is particularly important in today's situation, where business is in transition. After the fall in oil prices, many workers lost their jobs, and we must continue to stimulate the creation of new jobs. We're going to bet on the candidate for a job, but we also have to bet on the one who wants to create his own. As a result, lower corporate taxes, removal of machine taxes and investment in innovation and business start-ups are important steps. In Norway, we have the unique situation that most people own their own homes. Some are pensioners or parents, who, after a long life of saving and paying off debts now are able to help the next generation with their first dwelling. Others may be the refugee family, who after saving money can finally move out of the municipal dwelling and into their own. For this reason, the government’s commitment to social housing policy and the organisation of multi-dwelling construction are important. It is also important that this government is the guarantor of a national housing tax, so that people's homes remain a home and not a tax item, as SV suggests in its alternative. So SV wants to introduce a regime where you are taxed and punished for having your own home. The last Norwegian households need right now, is that it's going to be even more expensive to live in their own homes. Such taxing as SV imposes will affect unfairly and socially, and it is an ill-dressed party like SV to promote such policies. I also have to share one concern: this kind of housing market has been the last three to four years, predictability has been absolutely crucial. Then we have an SV that has a jump-and-run policy in terms of housing taxes. Their tax models change as housing prices change, and that's not what people need. You were against national property tax, but you wanted to introduce it. Now you also want to introduce an advantage tax on housing. I don't know what's going to be next. I want to say that if we're going to solve the housing shortage, we can't treasure ourselves out of it. We have to have a good social housing policy, and then we have to build out of the lack of housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1316	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1321	In a game of chance, it's randomness, not skill, that decides. The Labour Party believes that the development of children is too important to be left to chance. We believe that everyone is born with greater abilities and possibilities than we know. The Labour Party is responsible for a policy that ensures equal opportunities for children, regardless of the family in which they have grown up. As a researcher, I did studies of disqualification in secondary education. We found that the parents' social background influenced children's chances of performing at primary school and of completing high school. Those who fell off had worse odds of getting a job and of participating in society. Very few will be surprised at this and similar findings. What's surprising is the government's lack of effort. In the last four years, 60,000 young people have gone out without completing and passing on to higher education. It's a loss for them, and it's a loss for society. We can't afford to keep going like that. It would be thought that a government that is already doing well to empty our children's savings account took over. The government’s websites show that the tax system finances public welfare schemes and contributes to redistribution. In the Workers' Party, we prefer action. We spend the big money where they mean the most: to give everyone a good start. In our alternative budget, we increase VAT on shower and candy. We do that to pay for a large-scale effort to get more people to complete the school. The increase in VAT finances a real boost for early action. We set up several kindergartens and stop Right and the Advance Party increase in the nursery price, which is coming right away. We want a high level of competence around the smallest, and we're stepping up to half of all kindergarten staff being kindergarten teachers. We want a thousand more teachers from the 1st to the 4th. Steps in 2018, and we introduce a read, write and calculation guarantee, so that everyone gets the follow-up they need to master the basic skills during Step 2. We make the school more practical and digital from childhood, and because safe students learn best, we also strengthen our efforts to combat bullying. Early effort costs, but yields an inescapable gain, perhaps even more than tax relief to those who have the most from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1340	With the perspective message and the oil price shock as a backstop, last week the financial debate was marked by the challenges we face to ensure sustainability for well-being in the future. Fortunately, Norwegian economy is growing again, but the downturn gave us a strong reminder of our own vulnerability, and that we need more legs to stand on when the action space gets smaller. The main challenge in the future will be to create new, profitable jobs in the private competitive sector – more jobs that contribute to the state budget, not to the state budget. If we are to succeed, we must give priority to measures that can increase the growth capacity of the economy and strengthen private business. Then it must pay to work and invest in Norwegian jobs. We have to create more and treasure less. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, we are therefore continuing a policy that we know works through the tax and tax changes in the 2018 budget. We ease the tax burden on people and businesses, we phase out property taxes on works and uses, the so-called machine tax, and we reduce discrimination against Norwegian ownership by cutting property taxes on shares and operating resources on working capital. We reintroduce a differentiated employer's fee in the transport and energy sectors, a scheme that was closed in 2013, without the red-green government lifting a finger to prevent it. So the government has taken at least four years of intensive work towards the EU to rectify this. It is easy to understand that it means a lot to individual companies and the competitiveness of District Norway that it has succeeded. In a recent meeting with the trombone, the non-profit airline informed that the change would amount to approximately 10 to 15 million. kr on the bottom line of their company. The new option taxation rules in the start-up companies are now opening up new opportunities. Through hard work on processing our natural resources – fisheries, forestry, hydropower and, in particular, oil and gas resources – we have not only created a basis for well-being, but Norway has also developed technology that is world-leading, with an estimate of new industries, for the bioeconomy and the green shift. An example of such an innovation is the biogas plant in Forest. The OECD has awarded Trøndelag with the technology capital Trondheim to Norway's most innovative region. It is the only region that is among the top 25 in Europe. Innovation based on our excellent technology environments will be among our leading competitive advantages in the future, but then we will have to pursue a policy that ensures these new future industries innovation and competitiveness. It facilitates this fiscal policy budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1357	Tax policy is one of the real issues of Norwegian policy. For the Right Party and the Advance Party, tax cuts are a goal in themselves, and not for people the most, but for those with the most history. When revenue is cut, expenditure must also be cut. It was cut where it hurts the most, from those who have not before. The tax conference for the richest and annual social security cuts and social security contributions will continue in 2018. Unemployment and social security pay the price. The right and the front are driven by a strange short circuit: the one with much, is motivated by more, the one with little, is motivated by less. The unfair tax policy is misguided by phrases such as ‘dynamic’ and ‘forward-looking’, with alleged ring-effects in the form of investments and new jobs. The ring effects have not been seen. The Labour Party has asked, but both the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour are and will be guilty, because the answer does not exist. The employment rate is lower than in the long term. A repetition of the budget debate on the Right is a statement: we are doing what is best for the country! That's wrong. Employment is almost not created in the private sector, and it is a sign of illness. ‘Oil shock’ has been explained that the red-green government had three times as good job creation to refer to. And our good results came in the middle of the financial crisis. We did not mark it that much in Norway, but it was because the big money was used to keep the wheels running. But even then, the Right and Advance Party answers were great tax cuts for the richest. The working party starts at the opposite end: what does it take to ensure work and well-being in the time to come? How should public and private resources move in the same direction? The answer is political governance, not the market. We will invest heavily in the skills of employees, our main competitive advantage in the future. But it doesn't help if the workplaces don't exist. So the working party is adding 1.5 billion. kr on the table in 2018 as the start of a long-term commitment to climate-friendly business development – in marine industries, in shipping and industry, bioeconomy and welfare technology, clustering and regional accelerator programmes, broadband across the country, enhanced agriculture. It'll cost you. We need income. They must come from a fair tax system, where they are provided in accordance with their ability. One of the steps we take in our overall tax and tax policy for most people is to remove the VAT exemption on foreign online commerce at a price of less than NOK 350. It will strengthen Norwegian jobs in Norwegian shops, but the most important thing is that it will strengthen the income side of the budget by 1.7 billion. kr on an annual basis, SEK 1.4 billion. kr in 2018. The Labour Party will use this money to invest in our common future for increased employment and well-being. It begins to rush after four years, almost five, with pause in job creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1370	Today's government, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, puts Kommune-Norge in a difficult economic situation with its eagerness to remove the property tax. The municipal property tax income from the hydropower sector alone has been reduced by 380 million. kr per year in relation to last year and further reduced by 206 million. kr to next year, i.e. 586 million. kr less for school, kindergarten, health care, culture and food growth organisation in 2018. Reduction of hydropower plants above 30 pst. over two years lead the power plants no longer to reflect the market value of the installations, as required by law. The reduction is due to falling power prices – that is correct – but also to the fact that the capitalisation rate is not adjusted downwards as interest rates fall. The falling interest rate is reflected in reduced interest rates in the regulations applicable to all other taxes on electricity, with between 1 and 2 pst. the last five years, while the capitalisation rate of the hydroelectric power plants remains unchanged at 4,5 pst, and should have been down to 2 pst. I find it difficult to see that the future value of Norwegian hydropower plants has fallen by over 30 pst. in two years, and considers that the capitalisation rate must be reduced in such a way that the property tax base of hydroelectric power plants is more accurate in terms of the value of the installations. As I said, this will have a major impact on individual municipalities that are now sitting and making the budgets for 2018. Two examples from my home country: The Rana municipality will have 17 million. kr less in revenue for 2018 compared to 2016. My own municipality, Hemnes, will have $18 million. kr less in 2018 than in 2016 to offer to its citizens. In addition, lost revenue from the reduction of works and uses is added. The working party has proposed to change the valuation by lowering the interest rate and increasing the number of years for averaging. That would give the municipalities a reduced loss of 270 million. kr. So a little bit about the work and use. Property taxes on works and uses are an important part of the funding base for well-being in many Norwegian municipalities. This forgets the government's eagerness to cut taxes. As I said, the government is proposing to cut this. They're also doing that without figuring out. We believe that it is contrary to the investigative directive to promote such a comprehensive legislative amendment with such a large and uncertain financial impact on an overall municipal sector through a state budget. There should have been a reduction in a wide range of laws that assessed the property tax rules for works and uses, and not least the property tax on production lines. The budgetary agreement currently limits compensation to 500 million. kr per year. But it's probably not loud enough. Here the government should listen to the municipalities and take a little better time, at least one more year, before doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1400	Throughout the election campaign, we were bombarded with political radio advertising. In my home country, Hedmark, it was especially the Right Party and the Advance Party that were on the offensive on radio. Still away, you could hear Minister of Finance Siv Jensen's voice saying something like that if you want to remove the property tax, you have to vote in the Progress Party. It appears as pure populism when the Progress Party is fighting election in this way, and it makes it like that voters can trust that they will eliminate property taxes, despite having been in government for four years, and more and more municipalities have introduced property taxes during this period. The Progress Party is constantly involved in taking action to ensure that municipalities have to introduce property taxes. Tax policy is comprehensive. When the conciliators now, for example: have removed the machine tax without prior notice, which generates around 1 billion. kr in income to Norwegian municipalities, it is quite clear that these municipalities have to absorb the financial loss in other ways. This is a billion that finances nursing homes and teaching positions. One of the solutions that has been announced is that the municipalities seem to have to introduce or increase the property tax. When the Progress Party has previously been involved in converting the income system so that some municipalities lose it and receive less income, it is clear that those municipalities have to absorb income in other ways and one of the solutions is to introduce property taxes or to increase property taxes. Thus, the tax policy of the Progress Party lacks a holistic and logical thinking, but it is simply because without income, municipalities cannot provide good services close to people. I also have to say that I'm a little startled when the Political Spokesman of the Advance Party in Stortinget, the representative of Njåstad, the leading figure in tax, uses his main post to say that he never understood why reduced taxes of 25 billion. kr may be set up for welfare. You can then ask yourself whether the representative Njåstad, or the Progress Party for that part, understands the relationship between good health and well-being, the relationship between public school and welfare, the relationship between good care for the elderly and well-being. Because these are just things that we, the state and the community, have a responsibility for, and it has to be financed, among other things. through taxes. If Ola Nordmann gets a heart attack, it will help him little that Norway's richest has received billions of dollars in tax havens. But it helps him that the ambulance is in place as soon as possible, and that he is taken care of in a hospital that can save his life. Most of the years, Ola Nordmann doesn't notice that much about the hospital or the ambulance. But the day he gets a heart attack, he notices it very, very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1417	It is interesting to hear the government parties say that things are going so well in Norwegian municipalities. In Northern Norway, 71 out of 87 municipalities – in Finnmark, Troms and Nordland – do not even receive compensation for the next year’s wage and price growth. North Norway is in very many ways a district. For us who live there, it may seem like a center, but we often talk about it as a district. One of the things that hit North Norway extra hard, as well as a poor community settlement, is that you remove the possibility of taxing works and use. It makes changes in the distribution of values in our society that are very large. The government estimates that it will redeploy 800 million. kr. The municipalities themselves suggest 1.2 billion. kr. Here, districts are attacked on something very few have a relationship with. But those who have grown up in a society where there was a work or a use know that it is a concept for the large production companies in the community, or a factory of a will. We have been taxing the large installations for 120 years, for example. the melting furnaces at Elkem Salten works in Sørfold. We've done the same with the big machines at LKAB's plant in Narvik. There have been attempts to justify the conversion of the possibility of creating green data storage centres in Norway. Taxes on works and use have never been imposed on computers, printers, tools or plant machines. Should there be a need to clarify this in the law, it is possible. I would like to claim that the vast majority of the money that the municipalities charge as taxes on work and use is now going out of the country. Why? Well, because very many of our big industrial companies are owned from abroad. The only tax they pay in Norway is property taxes on works and uses, for the profits are taxed in their home country. In Northern Ireland, Elkem Bluestar in Southfold pays 8.9 million out of 10.3 million. taxes on property for works and use. That money will go to China for the future. In the sea, 20 million out of 23 million are paid. kr of Alcoa. That money will go to the United States because Alcoa is a U.S. agent. In Narvik, 15 out of 20 million. kr go to Sweden because LKAB pays this property tax. There is nothing in the government's proposal about how much of this money is now being taken out of Norwegian municipalities and given to the rest of the world. I'm sorry. It shows how wrong it can be when the government, without prior investigation of consequences, proposes to change a 120-year-old piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1433	First, I have to get hold of the last thing that was said by Juvik and Lyngedal regarding work and use. This is a matter that has been at the hearing in several rounds, and where the municipalities have been closely involved in the process of having their opinions expressed. It's just that this government is against that tax, and we want to phase it out. It's that simple. Now I hear that the Workers' Party is very critical of this phase-out, although they have agreed and want a legal investigation of the proposal. Given the layers of order used by Juvik and Lyngedal, can we get a confirmation from the Workers' Party that the legal work they want to support, really, is just a skin process, that they're really against the whole change anyway? There's a pretty clear distinction here in the hall in terms of taxes, and I'm happy to be on the side that thinks it's important that companies keep more of their own money to create new jobs. Why do they have to send their money to Oslo for it to be distributed from an office here? I don't get it, and I'm glad we're trying to make it. The centre party has today been outside and has spoken against several of the changes that we want to make. It was supposed to be a joyous day for the Center Party when we actually increase the fees that they have always been to increase. If we had had the Central Party policy on the sugar levy from 21 November this year, we would have had a broad majority for that proposal in Stortinget. Now we have the Central Party policy from November 22, this year, when the agreement was in place. Now it's completely reversed, and I think that's a populist way of running politics. The boundaries considered difficult by the Centre Party have always been difficult. They won't be more or less difficult even if the rate increases. They've been difficult from day one. When it comes to the changes we're making in diet and shelter and tax-free rent supplements, it's like most people here in the hall say that we have to start prioritizing. The action space is getting smaller. Then we also have to start saying no to some arrangements, and these are two arrangements that have expired. Food and lodging was adopted in 1927 and was intended as a more temporary arrangement for those who had to commute to work. If you live in a place and can go home and cook, as all other workers in Norway do, I do not think it is right to deduct it. There are no other workers who get. In addition, it is important to note that half of all those who require a deduction are foreign citizens. The agency's care for foreign workers is also a surprise to me. Furthermore, it is a deduction that is difficult to control, difficult to document, and it takes a lot of control to verify that it is actually implemented as it should.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1444	This will be a bit of a repetition of the financial debate in many ways. What's interesting about government is to create values, and lasting prosperity requires ability to change, new challenges require new answers, and that we make wise choices. What we are debating today is the government of Solberg, which, with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party, is continuing and intensifying the transformation and innovation necessary for value creation, which in turn contributes to the financing of all sectors in Norway, it is the municipal economy, transport, hospitals and, in general, what is needed to operate AS Norway. I want to draw up some important tax cuts that will work for businesses in the whole country. Here the Right Party, the Progress Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have realised that we are going to create values before they can be used, we have to premise that this happens, simply by ensuring that the budget agreement has ensured that property taxes on production equipment are phased out over seven years – just as government said five years, but it was seven years, and that's good. As a result, municipalities have plenty of time to adapt to this change. When there is in addition a compensation scheme and 72.5 million. kr for repatriation, this is acceptable for both parties, not least for the many companies that have requested this change in the property tax. In addition, there will be a limit for municipalities, by allowing them to increase the rate by just 1 per million, compared to 2 per million earlier. These are important measures that companies understand and give them a ‘boost’ of activity and optimism. But the reaction of the red and the green will probably be that here the rich will be prioritised. Do not delete! I myself have our company owners for 30–35 years and have never felt rich. But when the authorities make the right relationship because we're going to create values for the community, it's important that it is shown this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1457	When the right-hand side asks for a dance on housing policy, I get to participate, because we hear here that the answer is a irresponsible housing policy. It's quite amazing to hear it from a party that has been in government over the last few years while the growth of housing prices has been dramatic, while we see that the housing market is intensifying inequalities in Norway, while we see that ordinary people with normal wages are struggling to get into the housing market. One can also wonder how to help the nurse who does not get into the housing market, that with the most expensive and expensive housing, they are the ones that get the most tax advantages. We don't get any answers to that. Economists have for a long time warned against developments in the housing market in Norway. These are both price growth, which has been unhealthy, and the development of debt, which we see has been dramatic in Norway over the last few years. Then the only answer to the right is that we have to build more dwellings. At the same time, we hear from the housing industry, at the latest after the presentation of the government budget in the autumn, that we have now built too many dwellings. And that's how we operate in an eternal circle. This is not housing policy – there is a lack of governance, and the housing market is no longer fairer. We in SV propose to increase the taxation of dwellings for those with many dwellings and for the most expensive dwellings, because it is in line with the advice of a wide range of economic experts. I think that the Right really – deep down – understands that it's quite rational. It's redistributive, and it's stabilizing the housing market. However, if we continue as before, we will continue with this government’s policy on the housing market — or rather their lack of policy — the housing market will continue to be a driver of differences in Norway. It's going to help our cities become segregated, and that different types of people can't live in the same areas, and it's going to help destabilize the Norwegian economy. That I believe is a dangerous course to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1470	It's not the politicians who create the jobs, it's the companies that are experts at. Our task is to facilitate it and create good framework conditions. I have not met a single company asking for increased taxes to secure the jobs and to create more. On the contrary, many people say they would hire more people with a lower tax rate. That's where the big difference lies, between those who have a job and those who are outside. The representative, Giske, in his time as Minister of Industry, was concerned that the taxes on wealth are burdensome for businesses. Nevertheless, the Labour Party continues to increase this tax, which discriminates against Norwegian ownership. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and Red continue to argue in order to maintain the property tax on works and uses. There is reason to ask whether these parties have followed signals from their own members, from the social partners and from those working in the industry, such as their own. Club manager Svein Erik Veie at the critical corner stone farm Norske Skog on Forest in Levanger. He commented on this matter in the media in November this year. He asked the Workers' Party. think twice before voting to maintain what he describes as an anti-industrial machine tax, an unsocial tax that affects business, regardless of whether the company earns money or not. He pointed out that the valuation of equipment and machinery is going to be random. In addition, he believes that companies are heavily burdened by today's tax regime, and believes that municipalities should help to support industry and secure jobs, rather than put pressure on them with a high tax burden. Especially is the case with companies that are struggling in counter-grounds, as Norwegian Forest has been doing for a long time. This company pays between 5 million. NOK 6 million. kr in the year of property tax to the municipality of Levanger, and the machine tax is an essential part of it. It is precisely to ensure greater soundness and growth in enterprises such as Norwegian Forest in Forest that we reduce the tax burden, introduce relief in property taxes, so that the company can develop further and secure the jobs that are on the Fiborgtangen today. I think it's surprising that the old industrial party is leaving that line and that they don't see the meaning of it. But maybe that's what club leader Veie has said, that it's becoming more and more obvious why the Workers' Party is losing choice in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1485	It was the representative Emilie Enger Mehl who made me draw for an post, for the spouse of misunderstandings that must be clarified from here, a long search for. First of all, I'm going to have to agree that tax relief and well-being are different from each other. It needs to be explained again. I mean, if people get to keep more in their own wallet, it doesn't mean that the money is being wasted. That means that people are in such a good position to dispose of their own money for both well-being and other things that politicians are to give priority to people. So here we have different basic visions when it comes to how society is organized. We actually believe that both businesses and people are better able to make priorities themselves than the public and the elected ones are for them. But that doesn't mean we're going to stop having welfare arrangements. This is why we have made it clear, once we have ruled the country, that we are strengthening welfare arrangements while at the same time giving tax relief. The local economy is an example of that. It's not that tax squares mean a poor local economy. We had never seen figures for 2016 that show record results in Kommune-Noreg, while there are record taxes. It is precisely because we have managed to reduce health cows, reduce prison cows and strengthen the community economy at the same time as we have given tax relief – because it simply creates a whole new dynamic in society. It makes me go into the second, the property tax, which was addressed in the same post from Enger Mehl. It is good that one listens to radio and hears that the party leader and our finance minister say that removing the property tax is a goal for the Progress Party. I don't think she said on the radio in Hedmark either that it was going to happen in the first budget, but it's very nice to register that already the first budget after the election campaign was given, going towards making it harder to introduce and increase the property tax on houses and cabins and at the same time to remove the property tax on machines. It's a long step in the direction of what's our goal, simply to remove the property tax. I also didn't think the Center Party should get very tall and dark when it comes to the fact that the property tax has increased for these four years. It is not the government and the Storting that increase and introduce the property tax. That's what Norwegian municipalities do. The last time I checked, the Center Party had over 100 coordinators and the Labour Party had over 200 coordinators. The progress party has four, and our four have no property taxes or jobs to remove the property tax. It is the red-green spokesmen who have suggested ownership taxes to balance their budgets, while we have consulted a record-breaking community economy. Therefore, it requires a harder tool from this room to make it harder for the red-green municipalities to send the bill to their inhabitants because they are unable to streamline operations as they should.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1496	I still think it would have been useful if the Workers' Party could clarify how they tax the work and use, a legal work they have supported. And in addition, they're here saying that they want it anyway, it seems like it does. Then it's fun to find out what they really think about that tax. I have to take the floor because the representative Juvik spoke about the rate of capitalisation. What I thought I heard was that he wanted it down to 2 pst. Well, it's been the same as today, 4.5 pst., since 2011. Four of the last five reports that have looked at this have concluded that it must be higher than it is today, although I see that the Workers' Party and several municipalities want it lower because it gives increased income to the municipalities. The last two reports, which were completed this year and which are also mentioned in the State budget, argue that the risk premium in the capitalisation rate should be a total of 5-6 pst. In one report, Professor Norli bases a negative risk-free real interest rate, which is followed up by the Workers' Party. This is in that case one of the very few places where one assumes such a negative interest rate. So let's do that. not when assessing the State pension fund abroad or the State pension fund in the fund notification. And even though most of the technical recommendations are that we should increase the capitalisation rate further, the government proposes to keep it unchanged. What's interesting is that when the Workers' Party's big-time representative Juvik goes to the pulpit and says he wants it to be on 2 pst. And the Labour Party in its alternative state budget proposes 4 pst., it would have been fun to get a final explanation of what you really want. If you go down to 2 pst., at least it is completely without a professional anchoring, and I was very impressed with what the Workers' Party really means. Furthermore, we have heard a lot from the Center Party today regarding the tax-free rental supplement, and I will add a few comments to it. It is that for those who do, more than half will still receive a seafarer's deduction of more than 80 000 kroner in addition to the minimum deduction. So it's still beneficial to be a sailor, and you can still get tax-free food on board. This is a system that dates from World War II to compensate those who did not get home between the sailors. Is it then right to compensate seafarers today when they are fed on land? For those who receive this, the average salary is NOK 760000, and this deduction is up to NOK 16500. That's about 30,000, and 15 pst. of which no taxes to Norway. The centre party has received a whole new care for those who do not tax Norway, both in terms of diet and lodging, and in terms of the tax-free rent supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1505	When the Solberg government took over in 2013, we inherited a great legacy in the residential building in Norway. We met the builders and we met municipalities who complained that the legacy of the Centerpartiet, SV and the Arbeiderpartiet was a patchwork of costly demands, long processing times and bureaucracy, which was in the way of operating a complete and good land planning in the municipalities and building more dwellings. If SV's theory that property taxes or taxes on housing can help dampen the price pressure in the housing market, which they launched earlier this year, well, then you have to ask: How did SV just introduce property taxes in Oslo? In 2015, SV took over power in Oslo, and after that, housing prices went up by approx. 20 pst. This year for two years. Then the answer from SV was that we must have a national housing tax because it will help to dampen the price pressure. I have asked both the representative Kaski and her manager several times: how much did people have to pay in property taxes around Norway in order to pay the housing prices of e.g. Grünerleukka, where many of the SV's own voters live, would go down? They've never been able to answer that. Our proposal has always been that we have to work with both. We have to work on the supply side by simplifying, building more dwellings, bringing down the construction costs and getting up the building pace, so that we can get back on track, and we have to do something on the demand side, because we're also worried about the debt growth. That is why a number of regulations have been introduced which seem to have an impact on the most pressing areas. That's exactly how we have to work. We need to take regional action, and we need to be able to work on both the supply and demand side. I would recommend the representative from SV now finally to realise that the party SV is launching new housing tax models from one statistic to another, creating little predictability in the Norwegian housing market. What we have to do now is to continue the line that the government has, work seriously with the demand side, what we do on the debt growth side, and at the same time to facilitate that we have a housing building that meets the challenges we have – combined with the social housing policy, where we make it possible to build more properties, make it easier to get housing support if you need it, correct the lending activity of the House Bank so that those who need it most get it first and foremost, that one does not run empty before the year is over, and that one actually makes sure that the building pace stays up and the construction costs stay down.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1516	One of the most obvious issues in this debate is that ever new representatives from the government parties are rising and are not taking responsibility for the concrete consequences of their own policies, but are always away only responding with general tax reliefs that have been granted. The answer to the general tax relief that has been granted when the travel income over three years is increased by 50 p.m. is general tax relief, when one has increased the taxes on domestic air transport by over 2 billion. Since one took over — new tax increases in this budget agreement — the answer is generally tax relief. When you have reduced the depreciation rates for, for example: industry by removing the initial write-off – a tax return of 1.8 billion. kr – is just the answer to general tax relief. When many commuters who live on a set-aside get an additional tax bill of NOK 10 000, the answer is general tax relief, and the same when a person picks up a given increased tax on termination benefits for those who lose the job. There is little help for seafarers who receive a tax return, for shipowners to receive tax relief. It helps little if the owner of Nidar gets reduced taxes, if the person who works at Nidar loses the job himself. And to the representative Wang Soleim, who talked about the need to tighten up and prioritize. Yeah, what's happening here is a priority. A scraper is increasingly emerging from different groups in order to provide more tax relief to those who have the most already. Very many of the commuters who are now receiving a tax return are people who are already experiencing pressure on pay and working conditions. On top of that, they get a tax return of up to NOK 10,000. And for seafarers who have shown moderation in a demanding time, who have been held back with pay demands – yes, some have even fallen in pay to take responsibility in a situation where it has been demanding for the shipping companies – what is the thank you? Well, thank you for going into Christmas with the assurance that you will get a tax bill of NOK 7 000 to NOK 8 000. Policy is about priority, and this priority is wrong. So finally what goes on about VAT on travel life – the increased VAT. Here it's going to be hanging back in the hall what's the ambition ahead. Yesterday during the nutrition debate, the representative Ebbesen said that the Right had an ambition that one would get a more flat VAT. That's 15 pst. Which is the ambition? That's 25 pst. which is the ambition of travel life moms? I expect both the Minister of Finance and representatives of the Government Parties to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1527	I was a little surprised when the representative Njåstad was here and had an announcement that the center party was high and dark. That is what we are all about, but then one must be able to say the same thing to the Progress Party. They say that the municipalities have such an incredible economy and that there are good transfers. What comes out very little is the increasing number of tasks that come to the municipalities without full funding. There are specialisations, and there are new reforms that are not very visible. We have child protection, we have fire and rescue, the dimensional regulation, the emergency regulation, and increasing competence requirements in all sectors. This is difficult for the municipalities, as well as for the government to reduce income. There are demanding times when it is cut in all the income of municipalities, and skills requirements are increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1532	The welfare state is a split layer. Paying taxes by ability is one of the most important contributions we can make to ensure the well-being and opportunities of all, and that means that people with high incomes have to contribute something more than others. Not least, it is important now that this debate has made it clear that differences and poverty are increasing. For this reason, the Labour Party proposes a fairer arrangement for income taxes, higher taxes for high wages, but lower taxes for most others – we protect people with income below NOK 700000. To finance an active labour market policy, we increase the wealth tax on them with the highest wealth, but screens pensioners and small savers. With our tax treatment, it's going to be less tax on the families of children. We say no to the government's more expensive kindergartens, and a normal family with two children in kindergarten will come out far better with our arrangement. We say no to the government's tax shock for commuters and those who have a long way to go to work. The Right Party and the Progress Party cut off the taxes of those who can never be rich enough, but pretend that there are ordinary people who get the most. We hear that over and over again in this debate as well. The problem is that time and time again it has been rejected. From 2014 to 2017, the thousand richest have reduced their own tax by over 800,000 kroner on average. That's $2,200 a day. The 94 pst. with the lowest wealth has received a tax cut of a few dollars a day. The fees, on the other hand, that most people pay, have increased by over 6 billion. kr since 2014. There is only one tag: an unsocial and poor distribution policy. For the Workers' Party, taxation is not a goal – it is a tool to achieve the goals of well-being, climate, children and young people and work. The challenges lie ahead. We have to get more people to work and fewer social security, we have to stop talking about early school efforts and start doing something about it, and we have to pursue an offensive climate policy. Common to all of these big challenges is that we're going to solve them with less money in the future. There is an open question after this debate here that we are now getting a small space for action, but that at the same time, new tax cuts have been promised: how is it to be financed? Is the welfare to cut? Is it the low pay to get more taxes? For every year this government sits, we're a new year behind in preparing for the future. Norway also needs a new course in fiscal policy, but, as you know, the right policy has only one grip, one tool. There are still tax cuts, and now even higher charges for ordinary people. It's a pity for everyone, not least for those who are now out of work and notice most strongly that the differences and poverty in Norway are increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1543	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1555	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting in case no. 1 and 2 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1564	A total of 22 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens the proposals No 2 and 3, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 4-9, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 10 and 11, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Green Party the proposals No 12-17, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 18, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens the proposals No 19 and 20, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 21, from the Bears of the Moxnes on behalf of the Red proposal No 22, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal for a model of a redistributive inheritance tax in the context of the 2019 State Budget, with the aim of preventing economic inequality from being inherited through generations.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1611	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking, as part of the introduction of preferential housing taxes, to propose the right to defer the payment of this part of the tax to change the dwelling.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government of the State Budget for 2019 to propose a new inheritance tax with a redistributive device.’ Red has announced support for proposal No. 19 and subsidiary support for proposal No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1635	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking how to step up the use of instruments in order to achieve the 100 per cent zero-emission target for new cars in 2025, including how to phase in purchasing charges on electric cars.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1652	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the impact of today’s interest rate regime and to assess changes, including a revenue-neutral conversion in which the income is set at 2,5 pst. plus the price increase with the necessary adjustment in the land interest rate tax, and return to the Storting in an appropriate manner at the latest when proposals for the revised national budget 2018 are submitted.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1669	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13 and 15–17, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how to ensure equal treatment between listed and unlisted companies in the taxes on wealth.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a differentiated fuel user charge scheme, where the fee is to be differentiated to be lower in areas with low centrality and higher in areas with high centrality, and where it is assumed that a system of different zones and gradual change of charges will be assessed in order to prevent unwanted commercial leakage.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The size of the budget asks the Government to determine whether the air passenger charge can be applied in such a way that routes from and/or to airports with passenger bases or passenger numbers below a certain level are exempted from the fee, including the fact that the government is requesting prior opinion on such arrangements from ESA.’;» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the take-off and passenger charges be halved for State-funded flights.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to extend the VAT exemption for media to all digital journalism and to return to RNB 2018 with the necessary proposals for amendments to the appropriations and legislation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1707	There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for further details on how advanced road pricing can replace or complete today’s user charges and tolls. This is in order to ensure a sustainable charging system that takes account of the technological development of vehicles and to ensure that future charges take better account of the actual social costs associated with when and where driving.’;» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1724	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size refers to the initiative for setting up the Trade Environment Fund and asks the government to take initiatives towards the industry to establish an environmental agreement and fund for fossil-free plastic conversion during 2018.’ [[plastic]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1739	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a model for replacing the basic charge on plastic and metal beverage packaging by a material charge graduated from the new fossil raw material. [[is]] [[except for recycled and renewable raw material]] The Central Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1756	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting with further assessments of the limitations of the tax regime for options in small start-up companies, including the limit on the option advantage, balance sheet total and the number of employees, with the aim of setting up an option tax that works for start-up companies and their employees, within the framework of the State aid law.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1771	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-9 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government requests the launch of an investigation into an alternative to the air passenger charge that has a real climate effect and not the negative results of the air passenger charge.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return in the context of the revised national budget for 2018 with an assessment of whether increased VAT could be a more accurate and less distortive charge than an increase in the levy on chocolate and sugar products, etc. as well as the levy on non-alcoholic beverages etc.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals to simplify the chocolate and sugar levy and to assess the setting of a free limit of 3 tonnes per tonne. year of use of chocolate and sugar products used by enterprises as raw materials in the manufacture of finished products.» The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1800	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests the capitalisation rate to be set at 4 pst with effect from the fiscal year 2018. until a new system for calculating the capitalisation rate is in place.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to determine whether a ceiling can be set on the VAT exemption for electric cars with a full exemption up to a given price level, but with different models of reduced VAT exemption for the most expensive electric cars and for expensive extra equipment.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1825	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose, in the context of the revised national budget 2018, to replace the basic charge on the packaging of plastic and metal beverages with a material charge, where the rate is set on the basis of the proportion of recycled and new material in the packaging.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «As soon as the EU has carried out a sustainability assessment of plastics based on renewable raw material, the government is asked to assess whether the share of renewable material should provide the basis for a reduced rate in a material charge on plastic beverage packaging.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e1849	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Greens' Greens' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for rules on transparency, complaint and redress in natural resource tax matters.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e9279	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e9295	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 2, by Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 3, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 4, by Trond Giske on behalf of the Working Party and the Greens proposal No 5, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 6-9, by Trygve Slagsvold Vedum, on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 10, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens In order to reduce the number of votes, the President will propose a unified voting order. The main positions of the different batches are given by the notes in the setting, and reference is also made to Input. 2 S for 2017-2018 and Innst. 3 S for 2017-2018. It will in practice mean that when we have voted on the minority proposals, none of the parties will vote against the vote's recommendation. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against a party on a later occasion. – No objections have been raised to this, and this will be the case. There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be set up to propose changes to the legislation on the taxation of works and uses which ensure greater non-discrimination and predictability of business across municipal borders. The committee shall examine in particular how the regulatory framework for the establishment of data centres can become clearer than today’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e9344	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to abolish the maximum and minimum rules on property taxes on power plants’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e9359	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government is asking the government to adjust the capitalisation rate of the property tax on hydroelectric power plants from 4,5 to 3 p.m. with effect from 2018 until a new calculation system for that rate is in place.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the State budget for 2019 with a predictable calculation system for the capitalisation rate of the property tax on hydropower plants that takes account of market interest rates and ensures that, under current conditions, interest rates will be lower than current interest rates’. Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e9383	There is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to set up a legal selection to assess the future property tax, including the tax on works and use. No changes shall be made until the selection has submitted its adjustment.» The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e9400	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting with further assessments of the limitations of the tax regime for options in small start-up companies, including the limit on the option advantage, balance sheet total and the number of employees, with the aim of setting up an option tax that works for start-up companies and their employees, within the framework of the State aid law.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e9416	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Greens' Environment Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking for the maintenance of property taxes on works and uses as at present.» The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e9433	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Government's proposal for amended rules on production lines, etc. shall not be adopted.’;» The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e9450	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the setting up of a wide-ranging legal body that assesses the property tax rules for works and uses, including taxes on property on production lines.’ Red has announced support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e9467	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government's proposal for amendments to the rules on the disclosure by traders and public bodies of foreign contractors and employees to the tax authorities is not adopted.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e9484	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e10938	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e10948	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: N. The government is asked to ensure that almost full compensation is given to municipalities which are reduced in income due to the removal of property taxes on production equipment and installations, limited up to 500 million. krones. The compensation does not apply to start-up after 1 January 2017 and will lapse if the establishments are closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e10960	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e10972	Thus, N replaces Roman Numeral Decision XLI of the Inner. 2 S, as Stortinget treated 4 December, where parts of the text of an incursion had fallen out. The vote is therefore closed, and we can proceed to the handling of case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e10990	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e10999	The Committee fully agrees that the protection of vulnerable children is one of the Community's most important tasks. Children in the care of the child protection system or living in families assisted by child protection shall meet with a child protection system of stability, predictability, professionalism and safety. As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for the work it has done on this matter at a time when the Committee has also had several legislative and representative proposals for consideration, as well as the State budget. This autumn, the Committee has shown that it has a lot of work capacity and that it works carefully and well with matters it has to deal with. In its proposal for a representative, SV wants to limit the ability of private operators to make profits. They will liquidate the tendering regime and will ensure that all actors providing child protection services – state, municipal, non-profit and private – have equal pay, employment and pension conditions. The SV proposal deals with a thematic issue where there are clear ideological lines of division in the policy. This, of course, also characterises the work of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and, consequently, the debate here today. I expect that the other parties will explain their views on the matter, and will therefore use the rest of my post to talk about the Right and Government's view. Strengthening child protection has been a priority for the government parties together with the Left and Christian People's Party in recent years. By the end of 2016, it was 19 p.m. more municipal child protection posts, an increase of 932 posts from 2013. There is a growth in positions and a strengthening that we are very pleased with. This, together with a new adopted child protection reform, shows our commitment to better child protection. Both municipal and state child protection have used private actors for several years to carry out different tasks. At Stortinget we have noticed that the Council of State Horne is clear to the municipalities about how municipalities can be assisted by private actors in performing tasks involving the exercise of public authority, and also that the municipalities must ensure that they have the necessary control over following up the work and agreements that must be made. The right considers that it is not appropriate to legislate for employees of private operators to have pay, employment and pension conditions in line with those working in the public sector, as proposed by the SV. Discussions on pay and pension conditions are constantly emerging in debates with private actors in the field of child protection. In these there is always an underlying suspicion that private individuals pay less to their employees. Well, that's not certain. However, in order to obtain a broader basis for these discussions, we agree on a proposal to ask the government to consider how it can be ensured that actors operating child protection services for the public have wage, employment and pension conditions in line with those of public enterprises. We believe that the tendering regime is an important and correct tool when it wants private and non-profits to provide services for the public and disagrees when the SV and the Central Party consider that tenders favour private in competition with the ideals. The government is occupied by the non-profit actors and has, in recent years, strengthened the possibilities of the non-profit actors by first issuing institutional locations in a screened bid in 2015, and then opening up the ideals to participate in the open competition for the remaining places. About 40 pst. by private institutional measures are currently provided by non-profit actors. It is important for the Right that the services provided by private and non-profit institutions at the expense of the public are delivered efficiently and with the right quality. But we disagree that private actors providing child protection services based on contract and public control should not be able to make profits. It is not a problem that commercial operators have a reasonable return on their investments and a reasonable remuneration for their work when providing public services, provided that the quality and content of the service and legal security of children and families are well maintained. But, of course, we do not want unfair relationships in this area, and we believe it is important to make sure that the public does not pay more than necessary for services such as the public purchaser of the private sector. We believe that the clear signal from the Council of State that there is a need to look at the framework for the use of private actors is good. This is why we support the proposal to ask the government to set up a public body to monitor the flow of money in publicly funded welfare services. Getting a comprehensive and good investigation will contribute more widely to the debate on the important place of private and non-profit actors. There are many tidy and competent private welfare providers, and we believe that the investigation will likewise reveal their important place. The challenge of SV’s proposals is that they will prevent operators from having a reasonable return on their investments. Removing good private providers of child protection services would endanger the safety of many children because municipalities depend on assistance from private and non-profit institutions. The reason the municipalities make use of private resources is that they provide either the necessary skills or capacity. Finally, common to all of us – regardless of political position and ideology – is that we want strong and good child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11027	First, I want to pay tribute to the committee, and in particular to the SV's representative there, for the work done to get rid of this matter in port. We have had both a committee chairman and committee members who have been in charge of doing this. Children shall have children. When parents or other adults do things that prevent children from being children, we should be alert. It shall not be accepted that the children are to be protected. That is why the Workers' Party has been clear about the work against violence against children, so the Workers' Party is clear that we should have sufficient employees in kindergarten and school, and therefore the Workers' Party is clear that we should have midwives and health sisters who are also children's protectors in the first vulnerable years. That's also why the Workers' Party is setting up its economic policy differently from that of the government. We give priority to what happens where the children live, not to the wallet for those who have the most from before. The government is trying to tell us that it's not a choice, or that it's a choice almost at no cost to choose the rich over the community. But that's wrong. Choosing large tax cuts that give them the most priority already has a consequence. In some areas, children and vulnerable children pay the price. One result of the government’s priority is that they have to find money for tax cuts – their biggest investment. And as part of overturning the costs from the state and on the individual, privatisation is an instrument. In the child protection sector, we now see that commercialisation draws large sums of money from taxpayers' money to commercial players. Parts of child protection have become a market. It's unacceptable. In the child protection sector, the media have revealed this. This in itself shows that in the four years that have passed, the Council of State has not had enough control over how the money is spent on child protection. That's not good enough. The Working Party believes that child protection should be a public service. We believe that this is because children under the care of the community are entitled to continuity, predictability and security of contact with adults. We believe that because we want the community's money to go to the tasks of the community, and because we believe it's a responsibility the community commits to have. It is about the mutual welfare contract: the Community makes demands, but the Community also makes demands. The issues we have been presented show that this is not the case, and it is an explicit goal for the government to increase and stimulate more private activities in public welfare. It's the Workers' Party against it. There will be no more money for the children of such a policy. There will be no more competence for the children of such a policy. There will be no more employees for the children of such a policy. On the contrary, professional expertise is spread across several departments, there is less predictability and often more bureaucracy of such fragmentation. We believe that this is not for the benefit of the children. Today, what is too external can be seen as quite similar proposals, but there are some important shades in the proposals that are being promoted today. The Workers' Party promotes proposals, together with the Centre Party and the Socialist Left, to ensure that public funds benefit children's protection and do not benefit commercial actors. We also promote a proposal that the use of commercial actors should be reduced and that ideal actors should be given priority over commercial ones. We also have a proposal on equivalent pension and employment conditions. Some municipalities do. Some municipalities use the tender law to really put on the workers’ agenda – both pay and pension conditions. We also believe that the government should use it. Then I have to say that I am very pleased that the entire committee agrees that a selection should be set up to look at the cash flows, so that we get a good account and a good overview of how the private market cooperates – or does not cooperate – on the community services, how these international companies are organised, and how the money flows go. We're looking forward to the selection starting, and it's coming to Stortinget. I take this up with me the proposals that the Labour Party has on its own or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11059	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11064	Yes, it is quite right that was pointed out earlier in the debate, that this is an ideological debate. While the Workers' Party is most concerned with who provides services, the Progress Party is more concerned with the quality and content of the services we actually provide to our citizens. The legal security of children and families must be ensured in a good way, and the most important thing for the Progress Party is that the children receive a good offer and, as I said, not who runs it. Today, private actors are important contributors to child protection. I registered that the Workers' Party pointed out that they are not so pleased that they have as much of the market as they think they have, but that they also used themselves by private operators when they were in government. I am very happy that we have different actors who contribute to better services for children. Kids are, like all of us, unique and different. That we have access to offers from different actors, I believe it is important to give children the best offer. We have many competent private providers of child protection services in Norway, and they have provided good services for many years. I think that's an important prerequisite for contributing to the increase in quality, and getting a diversity in this particular offer. Of course, private measures must also follow the same quality requirements as public authorities, and private measures will of course also be followed up by the State and through supervision. The Progress Party believes that of course there is no need to pay more than needed for services that the public purchaser of the private sector, but in principle there is nothing in the way that players can have a reasonable return on investment and labour efforts they put down. However, I think it is important to stress that e.g. the four major players did not make dividends in 2015. Of course, we will continue to make clear demands on both the content and the quality of the child's offers. We need to recognise that there may be some potential challenges with different actors in child protection. That is something I believe the Department and the Council of State have taken the utmost seriously, and as the majority of the Committee believes it is important that we take a closer look at it. On the other hand, I think it is important to underline other things that are done in the field of child protection. We have a child protection reform. Later today, we are going to adopt a budget that provides for the enhancement of the time's competence in the field of child protection. And I'm very proud that we have a government and a big deal that manages to get together that children who are in a difficult situation are going to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11079	It cannot be repeated enough that the commercialisation of welfare services is a major social problem. There is a social development in which the values of the community go into the pockets of private commercial actors. In the course of five years, commercial sales of child protection services have reached over 13 billion. kr – 13 br. kr! These aren't small sums we're talking about. As early as 2015, the government ordered a report to identify the use of private actors in municipal child protection and assess the impact of current practices and the need for action, both in municipal and state child protection. What were the main findings of that report? Yes, it was. private foster homes are far more expensive than government large bargaining power and huge profit opportunities have been given to private commercial operators that Bufatat has little control over what they buy that Buffetat has paid a number of times for more than there was a need for Unfortunately, the findings do not surprise me, a VG's revelations in the latest on the problem. But what surprises me and disappoints me is that no more parties show an even more offensive attitude to end the commercialisation of child protection. Are the private commercial operators in this area really going to have to weigh more than the fact that the Community's funds are actually going to benefit our children? Of course, this is not about ideal market players using the operating profit. It is about those who regard child protection as a good source of income – our tax money as a good source of income. We can no longer sit still and see that the community's money goes to dividends to large commercial operators. People's tax will is weakened when some private owners unreasonably enrich themselves in such a large monasteries. Commercial private owners must be prevented from extracting values of tax-funded welfare through social dumping, poor working conditions for employees and poor services. Today’s tendering system poses a risk of rewarding unprofessional actors such as underprice services, for example: by having poor working conditions for employees or inadequate services. The amount of bureaucracy required to deal with the bidding rounds is substantial. Costs relating to bidding rounds must be taken into account for the outsourcing of services. The centre party considers that the present tendering system should be terminated in favour of quality-based long-term contracts. The Group of the Party of European Socialists supports the wholehearted proposal to the Socialist Left. We need a new course. We need a policy in which we manage the Community's resources in a sound and trusting manner. I would like several parties to show great power of action to change courses to the same extent as the SV and the Central Party on these questions. However, the fact that an overall committee today is in favour of putting in place more control and not least a sample to identify the status of this area and find solutions that make public funds go as far as possible to the production of actual well-being is a start. I bring this up with the proposal Senterpartiet and SV is together about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11115	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11120	I want to start by thanking the Committee for the good cooperation. Some balls have gone hot, but we finally got through it. A number of revelations in our welfare offer, including child protection, have recently shown that unimportant million sums of money allocated to well-being disappear out of the common fund and the right to private enrichment. 60 pst. private child protection consists of commercial actors. Four of the five major commercial child protection actors are controlled by international purchasing funds registered in tax havens. These are the actors we're talking about right now. It disappears millions out of child protection while there is a great need to create safer child protection with more care for the children, which we all agree on. SV believes that each krone that has been granted welfare should go to well-being. That's why we've been bringing up this fight lately. It's been controversial and tough. We have been teasing in some interests worth quite a lot of money, and this has led to black paint and horror propaganda about our proposals. But we've been clear in our policies all the way. We do not want commercial players to withdraw money from the publicly funded welfare offer. We want to strengthen the ideal offers and build the public. We've been clear about that all along, and that's a perfectly reasonable and sensible requirement. Despite strong counter-forces, SV, together with the trade union movement and others, have moved the political landscape far, as the consideration of this proposal today shows. Today, an overall red-green side is behind the proposal that public funds should go to the child protection offer, not to the benefit of commercial ones, and we are gathering behind the demand for equal pay, pension and working conditions for employees in commercial and public services. Only there are two important steps forward. In addition, a joint committee is behind a proposal that we first made in 2015, and which was voted down at the time. At the time Kirsti Bergstø, Karin Andersen and Snorre Serigstad Valen from SV Document 8:128 S. The text of the proposal in the I in the setting when it was processed was as follows: ‘The government asks the government to set up a public body to identify cash flows in publicly funded welfare services, including trade between related persons, use of tax havens, thin capitalisation and dividends. The Committee shall propose solutions to ensure that public funds go as far as possible to the production of actual well-being and to prevent undesirable tax adaptation in companies that are mainly financed by public funds.’.» Today Stortinget adopts the same text – with all the games at the back. It's a historic decision. It's the first winner in the fight to put care over turnover, and it shows how much we together are able to move the political landscape in a short time. In Sweden, a similar decision was taken as a first step, and now our sister party has been given more and more restrictions on the possibility of taking advantage of publicly funded welfare. We know that it's possible, and now we're going to show it at home. I, SV, the trade union movement and others have worked for a long time to get this done, but I also want to pay a big tribute to the other red-green parties and to the Christian People's Party in the Committee for having stood up for this, now in connection with the SV's proposal for a representative. We appreciate that. I hope we can continue to find good solutions that strengthen the community and the ideal actors for the benefit of the children in child protection, but also for the benefit of all other users of our welfare services around the country. I am pleased that we shall continue to fight that fight together further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11144	Me and Left are very pleased that the plurality is behind a balanced and sensible decision that will last for the need – the need that, after all, is the most important and far-reaching in this matter – for the lack and flexibility in the provision that are common to children and young people who need a safe home and a secure framework when their own family does not stretch. At the same time, the decision taken today by the majority will be reviewed in order to obtain a truly critical assessment, so that public funds are not misused for anything other than just waiting for the need to have a suitable offer for the individual child or youth. It's a bit of recapitulation when the red-green parties then until they go on the path of war against private organizations that by their very nature are also idealists, and go to war against the great commercial, perhaps international, actors. Then they have to say that the last have grown up on the tightening up of the bid regime during the red-green plurality. At that time, the private, small institutions – as good idealists as most others – were denied what is called a housekeeper's contract, where one was almost willing to sacrifice children's best at dogmatism's desk. Six-monthly contracts for young people who are in their worst and most unsafe situation of life «ever»: How long should I be here? I don't know, but I think you're going to be here for up to six months. Recruitment requirements that they did not apply to state institutions resulted in that a good part of them either had to stop operations or sell them. This is a result of a wild policy, but which the majority are now fortunately taking responsibility and trying to get a review of and get organized, if that would have meant that there is now an abuse of public resources. Back to the starting point: I'm unlikely to be happy that we don't end up with a decision that would put the hook on the door for all the necessary supplies in the child protection sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11162	One of Norway's major advantages is that it is a very strong trust in society. We trust each other, and we trust the authorities. One important prerequisite for us to continue to be like this is for people to feel that the authorities manage the common funds well. That is why it is so important for the Storting to conclude today on this proposal: ‘The government is asking for a public body to identify cash flows in publicly funded welfare services’, and not least ‘to propose solutions to maximise public funds’. This proposal has been promoted before being adopted. Now the whole Storting ends up with the proposal, and it means a start for a very important work that the Christian People's Party hopes and believes will have great significance. Today, many people lose their ideals because they are good employers, and they lose in competition with commercial players who use few permanent employees, or who have pension schemes that give lower costs to the employer. We recently saw this in an acquisition in the Municipality of Oslo, where they lost on public equal pension versus 2 pst. post-employment pension. Acquisitions have developed a lot lately, and the Acquisitions Act opens up to focus on a wide range of qualitative criteria. More recently, it has not been assessed how it is possible to impose conditions on employees, such as fixed-term employment and pension schemes. The Christian People's Party believes it is time for such an assessment to be given, and we are therefore pleased that a majority today adopts our proposal: ‘The government is asked to assess how it can be ensured that actors operating child protection services for the public have pay, employment and pension conditions in line with those of public enterprises.’ I don't agree with those who think it doesn't matter who or who operates our welfare services. The Christian People's Party believes that the ideal actors represent an added value in themselves with their unique perspectives, their care and their commitment. They see individuals and start up offers that they see that exactly these people need. We have to say yes to the ideals. Voluntary and non-profit actors are glues in our society. They build trust. A strong civil sector requires an active policy. Child protection is not a market. Then it doesn't work to use market thinking. If price and efficiency are decisive, children will lose, and the ideals will lose. Then we are left with a weak civil sector and a weakened welfare society. The Christian People's Party wants an opposite development, and we are willing to use politics to achieve it. Then we can't say that it doesn't matter to us whether it's public, ideal or commercial actors who run the offer. I must say that I also react to wordings such as that the ideals are only a supplement to the public offer. Yes, welfare services are public and public responsibility, but the ideals are not a supplement. They're pioneers. The Norwegian welfare community started with volunteers and dedicated people who cared. Long before Nav, long before Bufetat, the Norwegian Women's Sanity Association, the Salvation Army, the Blue Cross, church organizations and other voluntary actors set up for the poor, for the vulnerable children, for the sick and for the health care. The welfare services, as we know them today, have been started by ideal, voluntary actors who built up services where the state and the municipality gradually came in and supplemented. Since then, these actors have side by side, until we have received a more aggressive tender and market thinking in recent years that is about to push out the ideal actors. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly addressed this issue, and we are pleased that more and more people understand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11187	In Norway, we have a long tradition of using both public and private actors in child protection. The most important thing for those concerned with good child protection should be that the quality and content of the provision of services and the legal security of children and families are well maintained. For me, it is not important who operates the offer, but that the children get the best offer. Today, private actors are important contributors to child protection, and I want to thank the private people for contributing to both increased quality and diversity in the provision of services to children. Bufetat has, for many years, also during the previous government, purchased both foster home and institutional measures from private actors. In addition to emphasising the manning factor, competence and price, Bufetat imposes absolute quality requirements through the tendering procedures. Private institutions are subject to the same quality requirements as government, and conditions are imposed as a result of the applicable national collective bargaining agreement for the industry. We do not have to pay more than necessary for services such as the public purchaser of the private sector, but there is no need to do so in order for operators to have a reasonable return on investment and labour input. Buffetat has taken several steps under this government that have strengthened the department's control and control when purchasing services. We have put in place new foster home agreements, which give us more control over the content and costs of each foster home location, and institutional contracts are now making clearer demands on the quality and content of the supply. Child protection is a public responsibility and it should also be in the future. Municipalities have a comprehensive responsibility in the area of child protection and tasks involving the exercise of public authority cannot be delegated or added privately. That was the reason why I sent a letter to the directorate with a copy to the municipalities and the supervisory authorities on the use of private actors in the field of child protection. Under certain conditions, municipalities may be assisted by private individuals. The letter that I sent out gives concrete guidance on how the municipalities can do this in a legal and good way. The private actors must, among other things: be subject to active day-to-day management and management of the municipalities, and all use of the private sector shall be carried out within a professionally sound framework. The municipalities have full responsibility and have to ensure the necessary control. This will also be followed up by the county councillors. The use of private actors has changed over time. Despite the steps taken to clarify the framework and adjust practices in purchasing measures, we see that there is a need to look at the framework for the use of private actors. Potential challenges related to the purchase of private actors in child protection were addressed in the proposal on the reform of child protection, which was addressed in the Stortinge in June. There I announced that we would now look into the framework of when and how private actors should be used. We need to be sure that private actors are used in a way that is in line with the best of children and that contributes to efficient resource use. I look forward to setting up a sample that can shed light on several aspects of this area, in conjunction with the review and investigation that I have notified that the department is running. I am concerned that we are not now anticipating solutions and measures without considering the impact it will have on the provision of child protection services to children. The best interests of the child must always be at the heart of the choice of action, not who operates the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11212	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11217	Half of the 20 child protection companies with the highest income last year are owned by five large groups. We have heard that in the debate here today. Four of these are controlled by foreign investment funds. This means that money that would have gone to take care of our most vulnerable children ends up abroad, and that decisions that could have significant consequences for child-restraint children are taken by companies that are very distant from their Norwegian affiliates, and even more distant from the children to be placed with their affiliates. My question to the Council of State is a simple yes/no question: does the Council of State consider this to be unproblematic?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11224	We are not going to pay more for private services than is necessary, so I am very happy that we have had better control over the contracts concluded with the private sector in recent years. Let me remind the representative that the contracts that are now in the foster home sector, which expire in 2018, yes, they were concluded in 2012, under the previous government. In the last period we managed, there were also contracts that went out, and that the previous government had concluded. We have had better control of the contracts that have now been concluded. It's an important work, and we want to stress that we need to have control of the private actors. At the same time, we are also dependent on the private actors, who provide good services to the children and young people who need it. They did that under the previous government, and so do they in the future, because we have to think about what's best for children. The child should have a good offer, and it also gives the private actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11229	We hear here a government council that is concerned with structure and framework and control, and not so concerned about where the money goes. The efficiency reform launched by the government has led to cuts in the State child protection area of 225 million. kr in the years it has worked. So now we have a state council that's standing here in the main hall saying it almost doesn't matter how much money goes to foreign investment companies. Does the Council of State think that is a good priority of the money that should have gone to children?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11234	I wonder if the representative has been visiting a child-rescue institution, because it is almost as if there are children with water and bread at a child-rescue institution and not getting the help they need. The private actors are doing a great job so that we can manage to have an offer for children and young people who need it today. The government has introduced an ABE reform. Yes, it is necessary, because we have seen that growth in the state sector has been too high, and it is important to get it under control. Buffetat has, with the new contracts, improved control of the private operators in the services they purchase. We have some contracts ready to pay over 8 pst. less because we have managed to put in place contracts that ensure more offers for the children than we had before. This is a work that is working on continuously, but which is now also important for a sample to look at – and we can also do more than what has been done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11243	It's a well-known strategy to make claims no one has made. There is no one in this room, I think, who believes that children in private child welfare institutions get water and bread. There has been no mention, my acquaintance, at least not in this room. So that show might have to be inside the head of the council. But what I'm asking about is whether the Council of State believes that this is a good prioritisation of the community's money, the taxpayers' money, which goes into a single account – where the Council of State seems to be comfortable with millions running out of profits in foreign companies, which do not benefit Norwegian jobs or Norwegian communities, and that the government cuts $225 million. kr to put in place tax cuts for those who already have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11250	It's going to be possible to do both. This government has also strengthened child protection with the efforts that have taken place, and it provides help to children and young people. There has been a long tradition of using both public and private actors in child protection. It's been done under this government, and it's been done under the previous government. We also receive the offers we need from the previous government through tendering procedures, which also had the previous government. We rely on private and non-profit actors to provide an offer to children and young people. We need a diversity. Therefore, it is important that the contracts that are concluded are clear that we do not have to pay more than what is necessary, but that we get the quality and the help that children and young people need.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11259	The central party believes that public money spent on child protection must benefit the children, and that elected representatives must commit more strongly in order to get involved in and improve child protection. Municipal councillors can take the freedom to decide that only non-profit voluntary organisations should be associated with the public child protection system, i.e. that the local council opts out of the use of limited liability companies for the purpose of making money on used capital. My question is: does the Council of State see any legal reasons why the local government cannot make such a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11266	No, I can't see that. Municipalities have an obligation to have sound child protection, and municipalities also have to take care of how they use public funds and how they use private services in the area of child protection. There we have seen that there has been a development that is not good, with both capacity challenges and dual roles. On that basis, I have also sent a letter to the municipalities to point out that the use of authority is a municipal responsibility. Municipalities must ensure that they have employees with child protection managers and that the use of private services does not lead to a double role or into problems of stability. It's an important grip that's now taken. We have also announced that we will have a review of the private sector, especially within the foster home area of the municipalities, in which there has been an increase, and it is important that we see that the offers purchased from the municipalities benefit the children, and that we do not pay more than what is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11274	One of the results of the commercial inclusion in child protection and the rigging of the tendering regime is the dramatic increase in the cost of child protection services for municipalities and countries. At the same time, manning is too low, there is a need for more competence, and up to that, a few large commercial child protection actors make millions of dollars on the offer to go to the children. At the Council of State there is now a Vista Analysis report which is very critical for the commercialisation of Norwegian child protection. The Vista report clearly concludes with, inter alia: the following: ‘In the field of institutions, different framework conditions for State and private institutions and Bufetat’s ordering behaviour contribute to the affluence of the institutional sites, thereby making the provision of institutions worse than it could be, within the same expenditure framework. In the end, it is the children it affects.’ Do the Councils of State disagree with this professional council?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11286	Based on that Vista report, I have announced that we will have a complete review of this area. That's what we're doing, and I'm looking forward to getting a sample that's going to look at this. It is wrong that the government has made a great effort to open up the commercialisation of child protection. The use of both non-profits and individuals is on the same line as it was in 2013. What's important here now is that we have a whole range of offers for the individual child, so that they get what they need. We have also put in place new foster home agreements that have given us more control over the content and also the cost of the individual foster home placements, and the contracts that have now been concluded in the institutional area also make clear demands on the quality and content of the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11293	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11300	What we are discussing here today is the offer of some of the most vulnerable in our society. It is then incredibly important to facilitate predictability, long-termity of supply, stability and, in particular, security and care for those concerned. It is not about whether or not to use private actors, it is about which framework to put around the organisation in order to ensure the best possible offer for those involved. Today’s tendering regime places far too much emphasis on quality in the driver’s seat rather than on quality, and one sees that non-profit actors often lose out in competition with private commercial operators. The centre party considers that it is important to have a change by terminating the use of tenders and replacing it with contracts based on competence and quality. It can either take place through extended ownership in municipalities or through other long-term and stable forms of contract. I am a little surprised when I hear the representative Breivik and his argument against what, for example, the Central Party and SV have suggested. That's exactly the long-term and stability we want to give by ending the use of tenders and having long-term contracts as an alternative. We believe it is important to give ideal actors preference over commercial ones. It is fully possible, it is fully possible within the EEA Agreement, and it is important in order to provide a better offer. We also believe it is important to provide predictable pay and working conditions in order to ensure the quality of the offer – that one has good employees who have good conditions around him. We believe that the legislation should be amended in such a way that public money should not benefit commercial players, but better provision for the children. It is those who should be in focus, those who are the weak party, and to whom we should strengthen the services.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11309	I am pleased that the Stortinget is taking an important step in the right direction today. But I feel the need to say that there's only one reason why we're running child protection, and that's because some kids need care because they can't get it from their own parents. It's not like we're doing this because someone's going to have it as a business area, but it might sound like this, because child protection is referred to as a market. Child protection shall not be a market, child protection shall be a care and responsibility. Therefore, it is important that we ensure that the appropriations for child protection ensure child protection – a good child protection, a high quality child protection with competent employees who are there because they are genuinely concerned with the task. There is little reason to doubt that employees of private child protection institutions are less motivated than others. I know a lot of them, but I also know their working conditions, and they're pretty tough, to put it straight out. That's the motive of the commercial investors we're talking about, that's what's wrong. I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party, which is very busy with taxpayers' money, believes that some of us are going to pay taxes to make some financial investors rich in child protection. I have to admit that I am a happy taxpayer, but I do not want to pay taxes. I would like to pay more in taxes if the money goes to child protection, schools and care for the elderly, but if it is to be for some investors, who even put themselves in a tax haven, to get big profits, I say no – and not if those who are employed, and who we really need to recruit many more of them in the future, will get worse pay and working conditions. There are too many of these institutions today – there are too tough jobs. We have to have better employment, and we have to spend the money on it, so that people endure and don't get sick. Finally, a visit to the representative Breivik: When the representative Lysbakken was the Council of State, we protected the ideals from fixed-term contracts and replaced them with long-term contracts that ran to one of the parties canceling them. The commercial protests, but the volunteer organizations said this was very good. – Now we can finally get away from the short-term contracts, for example. Asbjørn Sagstad in the Church's Social Service. So the story that Breivik's representative told us instead is not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11320	This debate has become just as ideologically charged as we could imagine. It is especially to hear words like ‘commercial consumption’ when we discuss this. It's a completely wrong production. The changes in the use of public and non-profit and commercial private actors have been quite insignificant since 2013. In 2013 was 46 pst. of the days of residence of a State institution, while 54 pst. was in a private place. It's changed by 2 pst. from 2013 to 2017: 44 pst. in a state institution, 56 pst. in private. In fact, in terms of the distribution between ideal and private, several are now on the ideal – 5 pst. more – than in private. There's something about putting a foot in the ground and dealing with what's the reality, when a user has such big and strong words about this area. Just because we're talking about the all, the most vulnerable in our society, it's important that we create predictability and not change this from one day to another, because we know that many children are either at ideals or at private. Many are at home, doing a very good job. I have to say that I do not recognize myself in that description, and I have visited many private institutions throughout the welfare service area. If there had been such a bad job, employees would no longer be there. In fact, employees can take their hat and walk if they do not want to work under such conditions. I know that many of those who work in the private sector have just as much care and an equal desire to provide good services as others. And so it is that if the Labour Party and the Centre are so concerned about making changes to this, it is actually the ones who have the most rapporteurs in this country – it is definitely the ones who have the most rapporteurs. Had they wanted to make changes to this, we might have seen changes, but it hasn't happened in these years. So there has been no specific change in the proportion between 2013 and 2017. Then I just want to say to SVs Karin Andersen about good child protection: Yes, we are concerned about a good municipal child protection system. Therefore, it was so nice to read the Municipal Report today, which reports that in the 2018 budget survey, child protection is the service that is increasing most in the municipal budgets for 2018. It shows that when the government, together with the cooperation parties, grants money for this, the municipalities also spend the money on these important services.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11331	It is crucial for continued high trust in Norwegian society that we have a strong civil sector with room for non-profit actors and non-profit organisations. I would say that these actors are among the most important contributors to a strong welfare society with high trust. Therefore, the budget agreement cut-off corrections, additional appropriations for voluntary and non-profit actors and, above all, increased VAT compensation are so important. This is also why the wording of the budget agreement that the government's proposal for a pension scheme for non-profit actors is not now adopted is so important. The size needs to be better addressed, and there is an advantage to this scheme, which will last for so many years to come, and which means so much to so many, being adopted by an overall increase, or at least by a broadest possible majority. This gives Stortinget the opportunity to work with. I agree with the Workers' Party's view that child protection should be a public responsibility and that ideal actors should be used over commercial ones. The Christian People’s Party also agrees that the tendering regime is not suitable for the protection of children and that the public should also cooperate and conclude competence and quality-based contracts, such as extended ownership or other long-term and stable forms of contract, and that ideal actors are given priority over commercial actors. The Christian People's Party has made proposals in line with this on a number of occasions in recent years, and we will continue to work for this in the Stortinget. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party does not vote for exactly these proposals today. We believe that the decisions on the dividend committee and on the assessment of work requirements are major and important steps that are being taken today, and I would say that there are concrete and important steps that may mean more than that we are defining our more general view here. But I will, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, promise that we will not stop and rest here. We will continue to work to ensure that the Stortinget secures decisions for the non-profit sector and better political governance over the welfare actors. We hope and believe that the Storting is now ready for work that once and for all ensures a strong and viable non-profit sector, as our parliamentary leader, Knut Arild Hareide, also took the initiative in the debate on the throne.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11342	There are some things I have to comment on during this debate, and one of those things is that we are going over and over again, both here in this Chamber now and in the public debate else, being accused of turning this issue into something about ideology. I think it's a little strange to be accused of, because with respect to reporting, it's all about ideology at last, including this case. If we're not going to take our values into account when we're designing policies, what are we going to assume? So the disagreement here is not whether the right side is concerned about the fact that the children's offerings are the most important, while the left side is concerned about who is making the offers. No, the disagreement is about how to ensure the best possible offer for the children, and in fact we in SV believe that it has something to say about who is carrying out our welfare tasks, and how the framework for the organisation is. Whether it's public or non-profit actors, there's something to say, because public and non-profit actors guarantee that every penny we give to children's protection is going to create a better babysitting service for the kids. If there are commercial players, we know that some of it is going to go into profit. Now, through thorough work, which has shaped the public debate, VG has shown that millions of dollars are spent on tax havens, and it surprises me, frankly, that no more are busy stopping it. It should, as the representative Karin Andersen said, take them on the right hand side, which is concerned with how to manage the money to the taxpayers. It should be obvious that this also affects the children's offer in the end. The commercialisation of this offer also does something about the device of child protection – in addition to the fact that it only disappears some money. Because the price, profit and short-term nature of a long-term bid regime, quality and competence, offer a lower price for children. That is why we need to change the tendering regime. Then diversity is referred to as an important argument from this pulpit, and I fully agree with that. I believe that some of the main reasons why we are promoting this proposal are precisely to defend diversity, defend the ideal actors and give them better framework conditions in the face of increasingly commercial interests in child protection. In the end, I have to say that I am responding to the debatability of many child protection employees by the representative of Wilhelmsen Trøen. Everyone here knows enough to know quite a few stories about what it's like in many commercial offers around, and I don't want to use the time now to go into those stories.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11353	The representative Wilhelmsen Trøen tells us that it's not that much, and it's talking about percentages. Then I think, what is it when this debate is about? Will the right side have opening for private, commercial operators, or will they not? On the one hand, they stand here and tell us how great it is, how important it is for diversity, and that they don't just get water and bread in these institutions. On the other hand, they go up here and try to minimize its use. The Workers' Party is concerned with the consequences of policies. I tried to get the council to say if she's satisfied that millions of taxpayers' money goes abroad, in accounts, instead of to children. I asked the council if she thought it was okay that they cut 225 million. rather than spending the money on children. We may also need to make child protection more effective, but that is the use of the money for the children we are talking about! It's not a structure, it's not a bid, it's rules and agreements – it's about where the money goes, and how we can best spend the money on the needs of the children. That's what's at the heart of this question, and that's what's the ideology of the Workers' Party. That's why we have the idea that the community's money should go to the community's tasks. That's why we think we should have a strong welfare state to be financed by taxpayers. Who else would like to finance actions that benefit everyone in Norway? The county of Agder has expressed concerns about the proportion of private individuals. That concern is well worth listening to, I mean. SV appeared to the Vista report. We know employees have strong opinions about this, they have experience with it. They have seen money fly out to private actors from hospitals, for example. Some of the actors had social dumping. It was revealed. It is not revealed within child protection, but the essence is nevertheless: how are we going to spend community money in the best possible way for those who need community care?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11362	We see today a working party driven more by ideology than in the interests of the weak. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is clearly more important to indicate the distance from private operation than that the children who need it receive the best offer for them. The working party will have more employees in kindergartens, more at school, more health sisters — without any connection with quality. We strengthen public services by raising more health sisters, introducing bullying agents, giving more to early work in kindergarten and school, and increasing the competence of child protection. When you see how the Workers' Party stands for the closure of private institutions only because they are private, this will not strengthen the offer to users. The Progress Party believes it is important that we have what society needs to offer, and believes in a number of cases that private individuals deliver far more quality than public institutions. Look towards Oslo, where the Workers' Party lays down fantastic private institutions and moves people as if they're an ideological balancing post. This is what the Progress Party believes is unsustainable. It is sad to hear the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV talk about these skilled entrepreneurs as ‘welfare profitors’. We're talking about a lot of people with deep commitment and competence, who spend their time on the weak and needy in society. They create jobs and a safer environment for those who really need it. Why is the opposition so afraid of the private? Unprofessional operators shall not be allowed to operate such institutions and shall be clearly identified. There's probably some public institutions that don't keep goals at all, but here the opposition doesn't say a word. It's all inside, only it's public. This tells me that the opposition is putting our children's safety at risk, just because they ideologically don't want private operations. For me, those who run these institutions have to make money – as long as they have great deals that give the end-user what it deserves and deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11381	Now we heard an ideological contribution to the market correction of care and well-being. That's what this is all about. The right-hand side is ideologically driven by their belief that the public sector should be a market and welfare should be a public market. I get it. There are no more profitable markets in the world than in those countries that have strong laws, with many well-being goods that are tax-funded. Of course you want to get inside them. It's not so much to put your money in otherwise now, except in real estate – because most things are made, so it's not as easy to find things to put your money in that you get a lot of profit out of. But that is an ideological point of view. SV disagrees with that, because we believe that, for example: child protection is care and welfare, not a market. We believe that, and we are strengthening child protection far beyond what the government is doing, also with earmarked funds both in the municipalities and to the child protection service otherwise. Because we believe that diversity needs to evolve within public supply and in cooperation with the voluntary sector, which is there because they are non-profit. We're not talking about the little women's entrepreneurs now. There's a fairy tale told here. Five major actors control two thirds of the large child protection market. These are the actors who have invested in tax havens, which bottle up our tax money that should have gone to child protection. I do not understand that the Progress Party may think this is a particularly good idea. These are the really great thieves in our welfare. This is what threatens our well-being if we do not close the tax havens and use the money we pay for good care. It's not about – and I said that in my first post – the motivation for those who work in these institutions. It's good, I know a lot of those who work in the private institutions. But they're telling us about work loads that don't last very long. So here there is a need for more staff, probably also in parts of the public service – I will say a little about it later in the budgetary procedure – because the need is also there in the municipalities. But the money we give for the protection of children is to be used for the protection of children. This is achieved by strengthening public resources to develop diversity, including in collaboration with the voluntary non-profit sector – which is doing a great job and which is also doing so based on interests other than serving itself rich.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11395	It's not to stick under the chair that this is also about ideology. Some people don't want to use either private or non-profits, and some people just want to use the ideals. The most important thing here is that there are a few children we need to have state, private, ideal or commercial providers for. And the most important thing we can do to ensure the use of this money is to have a tender when we need to buy from private, which the previous government also used. We can make absolute demands on quality through the tendering procedures. In addition, we can focus on the manning factor, competence and price. For example, this government has now said that all private and state institutions should have a school manager, and they should have a health manager. There is an increase in quality – more than it has ever been. As I have said, for us, there is no problem that some commercial players are making money on the services that the public needs. That's the way it's been every year. But of course, we're not going to pay more than necessary, and we're going to be sure that the private deliver the quality that we order and that the children need. The observations about the high profit that we now see in some actors, no one has earned. That is why we have warned that we want to look at how the market is structured, at the challenges of using the private sector, and also at what framework conditions we should base. I announced this in connection with the child protection reform, and it is known that the government will take care of it. So it's been talking about what's going on on the crew. All contracts with private suppliers by Bufetat shall include clauses on pay and working conditions. Suppliers must also document the payment of taxes, pay and working conditions and the competence of employees. Requirements apply to all suppliers and subcontractors directly involved in the performance of the contracts. This implies that they have pay and working conditions that follow the national collective agreements in force that the industry has. I have no indication that there are systematic differences in quality between state and private institutions. But in one area, we know that there's a difference, and that's the continuity of the staff. We know that many children want employees who have longer shifts, i.e. part-time tours, because there will be fewer employees to deal with. Privates often have an advantage, because long tours, especially in the form of a participation tour scheme, are more common in private institutions. That's something the kids have wanted you to have, and that the private people offer us when we need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11406	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11411	I need to tell you what I've said. The progress party had a post from the pulpit that gave the impression that the Workers' Party was not interested in quality, which gave the impression that we had referred to those who run the private institutions in a negative way. We haven't suggested ending anything, and we've never said that everything is okay, only it's public. So a little bit to ideology. It's a little strange to listen to this debate, because here ideology is used when you don't want to use private, while it's not ideology to want to use them. I don't understand that reasoning. What we have not received today is: what is the right-hand side saying when they talk about them not spending more money than they need? We have not received an answer to a single question relating to how much money is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11420	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 4-6 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11462	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be divided into two sections, so as to deal first with the budget chapters of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Knowledge, Framework Section 2, and then with the budget chapters of the Ministry of Culture, Framework Section 3. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that each part of the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, members of the government are given 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that parts 1 and 2 of the debate — within the allocated speaking time — give rise to a sequence change of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11479	It's really nice to call the family committee. That means that the Stortinget and we as society set the family, the family's values and the family's place in society very high. It reminds me a little of Einar's poem "Luck": ‘eight eyes in each other. Four mouths around a table. Four walls of happiness: Wesla, Easter, father and mother." As a committee, we have the primary responsibility to facilitate the policies of Norway for families, so that as many as possible can experience happiness, but we also have a great responsibility to help those families who do not have it together, who have not ‘eight hands hooked up to a ring about large and small’, as Schürasen writes in his poem. In many of the families that work the most, the children in particular are the most vulnerable. Family protection is a major area of government activity and cooperation. The total budget allocated to this year is close to 542 million. kr. Since the government change in 2013, the service has been strengthened by 173 million. kr. Through the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we increase the subsidy to the public offices of family protection by more than 19 million. kr, and the grant for the church's family protection service increases by 12,5 million. kr. The increase includes: to strengthen prevention, to families with high levels of conflict and to children and families at risk of violence. Early interventions and prevention have been specific focus areas. In addition, Stortinget has asked the government to facilitate more children's having their own conversation time in connection with a family break. The work against violence and abuse is highly prioritised by the Right in the Government. In the action plan ‘A good childhood lasts its life’, the government launched 43 priority actions in 2014 to combat violence and sexual abuse against children and young people. The government has continued to give priority to the fight against violence and abuse through the escalation plan adopted in Stortinget, which was the first obliging escalation plan on violence and abuse. The plan provides for a comprehensive and long-term effort to reduce the incidence of violence and abuse. The escalation plan outlined the challenges associated with the follow-up and treatment of those who have been subjected to violence, and provided for the strengthening of the aid and treatment provision for victims of violence, but also for those who have been subjected to violence. The plan underlined that legal certainty should be ensured in cases of violence in close relations and violence against children, that investigation of issues of violence and abuse should be prioritised, that capacity should be strengthened and that quality should be improved. The plan also highlighted the challenges facing the State Children's House, including: with regard to capacity and access to medical examinations. The plan is cross-ministerial and the total investment in 2018 is 811 million. kr. The government is clear that it will step up its efforts. In many places, violence in close relationships is well worked against. The Moss region and the Moss crisis centre have recently received a price of DKK 250000 for their work on making a practical action plan of 46 measures that embrace a wide range of activities against violence in close relations in the Moss region. It is to accept that the parties in the Storting may have different opinions about both the level of funding and the priority of the actions in the plan, but that the Workers' Party chose to vote against the plan was probably a big surprise and a disappointment for many, also outside the Storing. The Workers' Party, which for eight years had the largest economic space of action ever had any government, and which put in a government with a purely majority on the Grand Duchy, was not near to lifting the work against violence and assault as systematically and with as high appropriations as what we have now carried out in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party. The number of children living in relative poverty has increased in recent years. It is a major challenge that we, as a society, must take on the highest seriousness. The situation is particularly demanding for children with a migrant background, and they amounted to 53.4 pst in 2015. of all children in low-income families. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, the government has been committed to targeted measures against child poverty and continues this work in 2018. We have put in place more reasonable childcare facilities for low-income families and a national free core time scheme in kindergarten for all children in low-income families is three years old. Nearly 25 000 low-income families have received significantly lower child care costs, and 33 000 children have had cheaper kindergartens. The National Disability Grant Scheme was established in 2014, on the initiative of the Christian People’s Party and the Left, and the entry in 2018 is more than 269 million. kr. As a society, we have a great responsibility to mitigate the consequences of poverty and give more children the opportunity to participate in leisure activities. In the Right we are so pleased and proud of this arrangement and hope municipalities, teams and associations are good at targeting this work, so that the funds can reach and help those who really need it the most. At the same time, we know that an important factor to avoid children growing up in poverty is that their parents have a job, and that their children themselves are given the opportunity to have a school that balances differences and gives everyone equal opportunities. That's why it's so important that the arrows point up, that the growth in the Norwegian economy is on its way, that unemployment goes down, that more young people complete the school, and that jobs are created across the country. One of the first things that took me into local politics when I was a fresh politician 30 years ago was the important task of child protection. Children of child protection and families benefiting from child protection shall be assured that the assistance they receive is predictable, timely and of high quality. Strengthening child protection in order to better protect the most vulnerable children has been a priority for the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party in recent years. There is now a significant increase in the number of posts, which we are very pleased with. This, together with a new adopted child protection reform, shows our commitment to better child protection. In the 2018 budget, the government is following up with a high level of child protection competence, a commitment of competence that is part of the child protection reform, and the appropriations are increasing to 80 million. kr in 2018. We are also very pleased that work is started on improving basic training and strengthening the offer of master's training, so that more people can start working with good professional qualifications. In the last period, I worked a lot with health policy here at Stortinget and met more children in child protection who wanted better mental health care. This year the government is doing something about this. That's 40.7 million. Dr to two separate care and treatment institutions for children in need of long-term care outside the home and with a high simultaneous need for mental health care. At the same time, we in the Right are also pleased with the general strengthening of health and school health services in government budgets. Children under the care of child protection also benefit greatly. In the future, municipalities will have better opportunities to build up the prevention provision of children and families in a difficult situation. The aim is earlier and better assistance for children in child protection. Sometimes children experience having to move from their parents, from their families, and perhaps also from their local communities, to new families and caregivers who can provide them with security when the situation at home is most unsafe. Child protection care should always be a last resort, but it is an important and absolutely necessary option for some. When taking care, it is important for the child to have a new home. In Norway it means either municipal or private foster homes or state or private institutions. We think it is important that we have different actors who contribute to better services for children. For us in the Right, it is not most important who operates the offer, but that the child gets the best offer. We have many competent ideal and private providers of child protection services in Norway. They have provided good services to the public over several years and contribute to increased quality and diversity of supply. It is not a goal for the Right to increase this proportion, but it is an important goal for us to always be the best for the child to decide on the offer to the child and where. For the Right, security is primarily about neither of us being reduced to being a little piece in a big puzzle, but that each of us is the most important piece in the puzzle on the day we need help. Whether it is important in many areas is at least crucial for children and young people in the field of child protection. Our goal must always be for all children to experience four safe walls around their childhood and youth, so that they can have the best conditions for life on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11533	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11538	The representative did not spend any of his minutes speaking time on equality. That might not be so strange, because after almost four years with this government, the only thing we've experienced in the equality field is that equality is set in reverse. It has been cut off in the measures and policy instruments that have led us far in the field of equality, and a gender equality message has been delivered that did not contain a single measure that could further promote equality. Once again, in the year's budget, it was cut in exactly the same way as it has been cut in the four previous budgets. It is cut to LDO, cut to the equality centres, and the LHBT allocation and the allocation to the organisations is at rest. Why does the representative and the representative's party really think it's a good idea every year to cut millions to the equality centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11545	Working for our society to be equal is an important work, and it's a work that the Right and Government take seriously. Norway is among the world's most equal countries, we should be happy for that. It is always a good idea – including in policy – to enjoy results. In Norway we have good results. Increasingly fewer jobs are part-time, more and more mothers work full-time – there are results that mean a lot to women when we talk about that part of equality. Then the representative of the Trettebergstuen is absolutely right in saying that when the government presented its budget, a reduction of 2 million was proposed. NOK on an item with 56 million. kr for gender equality measures, inter alia. the equality centres. It was a priority where you gave priority to spending money on, among other things. the action plan against hateful opinions and other types of important action ensuring equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11550	Universal child protection was introduced as an important family policy measure in 1946, but has not been price adjusted since the late 1990s. Everything else has become more expensive since that time, and it seems like there's been unison agreement in this room that we just have to leave it where it is. We in the Center Party think and believe that child welfare still has an important function and can work very well for a lot of families, and we have therefore chosen to start a escalation by increasing the rates of child welfare. What I'm asking is, if we're going to succeed in getting that measure to work better, we're going to need a proper adjustment. How does the Right and the Representative begin to look at it? Is there anything on the right and the representative is concerned about, or is it entirely okay that it just lies there and wakes up, like now?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11557	In the 2018 budget, the amount of child benefit is continued as it stands today. In many ways, that's the answer to the question from the Center Party. But it is true that in the last four years the government has had, and in the budget for next year, very many measures ensure that, in particular, those who need it most, the families with the lowest income, get better help. Free core time in kindergarten is such a measure; lower parental pay is such a measure. It is a sample that examines the issue of child welfare and other important measures that may have an impact on the economy of families, and we shall listen to that. But it is also true that when the Central Party had a purely majority in the Storting together with the Workers' Party and SV, nothing was done with these arrangements, even though they had a large economic space.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11564	Differences in power and wealth are increasing. The 10 pst. The wealthiest part of the population now owns half of all wealth in the country. At the same time, almost 100,000 young people are growing into poverty. The increase in the number of children living with persistent low incomes finally flattened at the end of the red-green reign, after several years of hard redistribution policies for the many from the few. We were not satisfied then, but now we see that the problem again has increased dramatically. From 2013 to 2015, there have been almost 14,000 more children growing up in poor families, from a share of 8.6 pst. for a 10 pst share. I want to ask the representative if she is satisfied with the government's efforts when the number of children has increased by 14 000 in just two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11571	It is a major challenge in our society that too many children grow up in low-income families and can be defined as poor. The government has done a lot to do with it: a number of grant schemes that allow children to experience leisure activities despite the low income of the family, free core time in the nursery, mentioned earlier. But it's also that sometimes we have to go a little bit to the reasons why this number is increasing. We know that immigration, and increased immigration, is one of the reasons, and that as many as 53.4 pst. of the children living in poverty are in immigrant families. That is why our policies for a good school and our policies for a working life where there is room for many are equally important so that these families can have an economically sustainable situation and get out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11576	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11582	The Labour Party presents in its alternative budget a policy based on our political vision that everyone should join, and we should fight for a society where everyone is equal and equal. Our budget prioritises work against violence and abuse, municipal child protection and gender equality policies. In these areas, the Labour Party will meet the challenges of the future with a policy that embraces everyone, regardless of wallet, residence or background. That is why we are also strengthening volunteering. In voluntary work, friendship and knowledge are created, an activity the individual thrives with, and a place where people end up for valuable social commitment. Child protection manages one of the most important and also one of the most difficult tasks in a society. They manage parenthood on behalf of the community. If children and parents are to receive good help, the work must be done in a way that offers trust from the community. Openness is a good basis for building trust, as in Fredrikstad, where child protection invites to an open day one day a week, or in Kristiansand, where good interdisciplinary cooperation and early intervention also strengthens the trust account. The working party believes that child protection should be a public task. Quality and competence are required, and we want to spend the money wisely. The working party has a priority of 200 million. more for the protection of municipal children than for the budget submitted by the government. We're strengthening the big bet and family protection. We also want children's voices to become clearer, in line with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and to strengthen the role of development and information work. Community funds shall be allocated to the tasks of the Community for vulnerable children, not to profits on accounts abroad. Tax rates for those who already have the most must be financed. The government talks as if their priority doesn't have consequences, but it does. Taxes on termination benefits, more expensive kindergartens, increased taxes and child-restraint cuts, gender equality measures and voluntary activities are visible consequences in government budgets. Increased privatisation is also being facilitated, giving less money to the community's tasks. We have seen that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality has almost been forced to tighten the legislation after several disclosures of the purchase of private services that are on the edge of today's legislation. Only when it almost burns, we see a reaction. The government, and in particular the Progress Party, has very few anti-privatisation ideas for public services. We have also heard that in the debate here today. In the Workers' Party, we have many. We want to strengthen public child protection and want employees to spend less time on administration and paperwork and more time on the children they meet. I met children at the Change Factory, and they didn't say as the minister said they would have a long tour. The children said time, time, time when I asked what they needed. ‘It is wise to take time to understand the reasons for things’ is a quotation from the children themselves in the book ‘The Child Protection of Us Who Know It’. The government boasts very much of its reform of competence. It's 80 million. NOK and have been well received. But especially new bets are probably not, and we're going to be pretty creative to boast of 80 million. NOK when we're really talking about $20 million. kr. 13.6 million. kr is for continuation of measures from 2016 or earlier, 20 mill. SEK for measures introduced in 2017, SEK 14 million. kr to cover the full-year effect of measures from 2017. Thirty-five million. The aim is to establish new continuing training courses. Of these, 15 million is. kr funded through re-priorities: 3 million. DKK from school to child-restraint children, SEK 5 million. NOK for the purchase of places in ideal centres for parents and children and SEK 5 million. kr from the recruitment of foster homes, to mention someone. That's 80 to 20 when tax cuts are to be financed. Something has to go away. One of the cuts pointed out the Children's Ombudsman in the hearing. The Ombudsman considered that it was unsustainable to cut the funds for schooling for children under the care of child protection. That concern divided the Workers' Party, and we put in the funds the government removes. The vision of the Workers' Party is a fair world without poverty and in peace, where people are free, equal, and have an influence on their lives. All people are unique, irreplaceable and equally worth, and each of us should have the opportunity to live a good life, in small and large communities. We want a society based on freedom, solidarity and equal opportunities for all. That is why the Labour Party spends the big money on the most important tasks, not on tax cuts to the richest and not on taxes that come out of nothing and that frustrate business and people at every budgetary settlement. The government we have now is weakened. Important losses have already been incurred. The birth rate has increased, physical activity has been introduced in school, changes have been made to the care system and asylum policy. And I guess I'm not completely wrong if there's going to be more failure in this period. Equality is about people's everyday lives. It's about children and adults having equal opportunities to realize their dreams, desires and goals. It's about not meeting attitudes or thresholds that limit them because of the gender they have. Women still work part-time in clothing stores, while men work full-time in car stores. Women are subjected to severe violence, coercion, and are often victims of extreme social control and trafficking in human beings. Women own about 30 pst. of capital values measured against men. LHBTI people still experience bullying at an early age, hate feelings and hate violence. They cannot be who they are, in many countries, and the #metoo action has shown that there is still a long way to go about attitudes. Too many men relate to too many women as subordinate individuals whom they can use for their own satisfaction. So there's a lot to do in the equality field. For this reason, the Workers' Party is giving increased priority to gender equality measures in the budget in relation to the government's draft budget. We're strengthening the equality centres. We remove the cash support and strengthen the quality of kindergartens. We donate money to a municipal equality programme to increase the proportion of full time among women. We're increasing the grants to the LHBTI organisations. We are strengthening measures to combat violence and abuse and to respond to crisis centres by more than 700 million. Total NOK The underlying structures and attitudes may be difficult to detect and therefore need research, competence and dissemination to employees in the public and private sectors. We need reports that give us not snapshots, so at least annual images of the evolution. The gender equality policy to the government is reversed. It seems to be an intense resistance to putting gender equality work on the agenda. The most obvious example is the follow-up of the Government's decision of the Grand Duchy's request: ‘The government is asked to provide an addition to the State budget which provides a gender equality assessment of the State budget as a whole.’ Responding to this by producing a report from the Statistical Centre on the state of some areas between sexes is therefore such a follow-up, in the government's opinion. It clearly shows that there is no interest in raising the thematic level and critically looking at the development of central government. I understand that this can be unpleasant, because we know that some of the government's areas of activity are counter-equality. The cash support and the removal of fetal leave weeks is probably something that would not be successful in such an equality assessment. The cash support counteracts integration, inhibits the line of work and equality. Several studies mentioned in the government's own proposition show that government policy in this area is wrong. Cash support keeps women away from work and fathers away from the children. So there is fewer work, more passive benefits and more women back to the kitchen bench with the government's cash support policy. Circumvention of the decision of the Storting in this way is probably more a result of the policy of the Progress Party: political instruments should not be used to regulate gender relations. But it is a pity that right-wing government members are not more drivers in gender equality than they accept such a retiring attitude and such a serious lack of equality policy. I am glad that the government is seriously weakened after the election – it should just be lacking. We can now have a majority for more equality policy in this period. I'm happy about that, too. The working party started by deciding to increase the feces leave weeks. It shows the way and gives optimism that during this period, with a weakened government, we can put in place more equality policies. I take up the Labour Party's proposal in case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11634	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11641	Living with someone who commits mental and/or physical violence can happen to us all. It takes away the most important arena of security from a human being and is perhaps among the most difficult crimes to report. Fortunately, the government and the cooperation parties have seen that this has been a neglected area, and have provided a wide range of efforts across many departments through the escalation plan against violence and abuse. The Labour Party voted against the escalation plan in its entirety when it was adopted at Stortinget in the previous session. The plan was in Stortinget for six months. The working party had plenty of time to make suggestions, but therefore chose to vote against the plan. It was quite alarming because it would result in the postponement of many responses to vulnerable groups. Now we see that the Workers' Party supports many of the appropriations that come to follow the escalation plan. Is it the case that the Workers' Party has now come up with better ideas about this plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11652	I am very happy to have this question. What's the matter, is that of the bet that the government boasts, only 5 million. kr from the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality's budget for the rapprochement plan for violence and abuse. It's for TrygEst. 54 million. kr of the escrow funds from which they boast are fresh funds this year, the remainder is the continuation of measures from the past – and measures in other budget areas. So I want to say that the reason we voted against that escalation plan was precisely that there were no appropriations associated with the individual actions, there were no time limits for putting them into action, or responsibilities, which departments were to have the follow-up to the plan. So we have a very good conscience for our commitment to violence and assault, and we are pleased that we voted against, when we see that the result is in line with what the Workers' Party feared.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11659	I record that it was said that there was a disagreement about child protection as a public task. No one disagrees, but we disagree as to whether the private can actually participate and offer to the children who need help. When it is resolved, I have a question for the representative from the Workers' Party. Now that the Labour Party has left the responsible line of immigration policy, how can we say in the second debate, on child poverty, that we want to make a great effort, when we know that increased immigration also belongs to increasing child poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11664	This is probably an example of the History and Reality of the Advance Party. There are claims here about the Workers' Party that are not real. The Labour Party has not left a proper line in asylum policy. On the contrary, Stortinget has shown accountability to a government and a government council that has not dealt with the situation as the Stortinget wants. So now we've told you that we have to tighten things up here. As far as child poverty is concerned, the budget of the Workers’ Party is a whole priority linked to children and young people — from birth to school. We strengthen the budget in areas such as kindergarten and school teachers, and we strengthen child protection by 200 million. In addition to the government's draft budget. We also strengthen the training measures in which the government cut to put in place other things – we strengthen them by 4.5 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11673	A lot of attention has been paid to child protection. In the previous case, we discussed the ideal child protection. There, the representative Henriksen used the term ‘welfare state’ – one wants a strong welfare state. The Christian People's Party uses the term 'welfare society' because in a welfare society there is room for more than a state, there is also room for non-profit and voluntary activities. In the setting, the Workers' Party refers to the non-profit sector as a complement to public services, while the Christian People's Party believes that the non-profit sector is safe on its own – it is the pioneers who were there before the public offer. My question to Mr Henriksen's representative is: how strong is the involvement in the Workers' Party for the non-profit sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11680	If you look at the development of the Workers' Party historically, I think you'll see that the Workers' Party also started as a voluntary organisation. The Labour Party organised health services for poor women and organised training activities. We fought for better health insurance schemes. All of this happened on a private and ideal initiative. There were toothpick workers who went on trains, with the risk of losing their entire life base. The Labour Party is a single great voluntary movement, so we know well what volunteering means, and we want to protect and strengthen all volunteer work. We will show that in this budget, where this government has virtually dusted the budget for funding for the voluntary sector. It's the Workers' Party to fix it again. So the representative Bekkewold can be sure that the Workers' Party is a good ally in the policy of strengthening the non-profit sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11685	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11690	I think it's very nice to be able to stand here today and talk about what I'll call the children's budget, precisely because this is a budget that's in it and ensures the child's safety. A little while ago, several of us were big-time representatives – in fact some of those who are now sitting here in the hall – who were invited to be the party’s ‘children’s big-time representative’. That, I think, is a fairly large and honorable task, and something you should include in all your work, and then, of course, in the budget work. We've seen several ugly examples of what a bad childhood can result in. In recent times, we have also witnessed grotesque things, which we might otherwise hesitate to talk about. You can draw up the Dark Room case, which has been to the hot discussion and a shocking experience for many in my own municipality of origin, Bergen, but also far beyond the borders of the country. We've also seen what happened in Tysfjord, where there were over 150 assault cases for investigation. Obviously, this does something to us humans. No matter how difficult it is to talk about such cases, we actually have to do it. I am at least very proud that we have a government from the Advance Party and the Right that has taken the most serious action, and that through the escalation plan against violence and abuse has shown that you are willing to bet on the victim in such cases as well. You can discuss crowns and ears, but over 800 million. kr to this field is of course with and constitutes a great difference for those affected by violence and abuse. But I think it is also important to bring forward the other political issues that make this serious, for example. increased penalties for serious abuse in close relationships from six to fifteen years. Again, this is an example of the fact that the government takes this very seriously, and it is now seen that victim - care offices are established in all the police districts of the country. I would therefore like to stress that the effort against violence and abuse against children is about a lot more than just crowns and ears. It's about how you actually spend the money, and who has the expertise on how we can help the best. Then I will focus on child poverty. It is a field I as a politician have had a lot of work to do in Bergen. I fully agree that children should of course not be charged because their parents have a strenuous economy or are in a difficult social situation. The government’s efforts to combat child poverty have provided important instruments to include children and young people in, for example: recreational activities. It makes a big difference both in everyday life and in the future for those involved, and not least it will make a good contribution to integration when we know that, for example: immigrant children are overrepresented in poverty statistics. It must be an objective that poverty prevention measures should contribute to the smoothing of social disparities over time, because we know that there have been challenges in inheriting them. Child poverty is a problem that concerns us all. It happens in our municipalities, it happens in our home countries, and it is underlined that there are about 100,000 children in Norway today living in low-income families. I believe that many of the measures that have been put forward, to which we also refer in the budget, are important steps to prevent exclusion among children and young people, and I am pleased with the discussions that come in the following, on what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11710	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11715	It is nice to record that the representative Hemdal and the Progress Party are now engaged in combating child poverty. I am sure the Progress Party representative has come to understand that the cash support inhibits employment. My question is how the Progress Party can defend a policy in which ordinary young children's parents who are working and pay taxes will have more expensive kindergartens, while in cities like Oslo and Drammen we see that the government distributes thousands of dollars of taxpayers' money to immigrant women so that they do not participate in the working life, and that they do not send their kids to kindergarten to learn Norwegian at school. Does the representative acknowledge that cash support inhibits integration into these cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11722	Thank you for a good question. No, I have to say that we will then focus on the second thing that the Progress Party has been involved in in government, precisely that we are giving money to several municipalities out there in order for example. children of immigrant women or others — or whether you are Norwegian and have low income — are guaranteed a more reasonable, or in some cases actually free, kindergarten. It also helps to stimulate work, or help children learn languages and be integrated in a good and adequate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11727	I'm new to this committee, and I think it's interesting to get better acquainted with the different parties. In this area and within this framework, the Christian People's Party and the Left have increased quite a number of items in relation to the government's original budget. I wonder if there are any of the increases that the representatives of the Progress Party do not agree with. If there is no one she disagrees with, will she work actively for all the posts that the Christian People's Party and the Left have contributed to have increased in next year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11732	I have to say that now we have a budget unit, and it's clear that what we've landed on there is what we're going to work for. For any party and in any agreement, it's like someone wins some battles, and others win other battles. But this is a settlement that I'm very well behind, so I have no intention of having any rematches on the pulpit here today about what we've agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11737	Powers, opportunities and wealth remain unevenly distributed among genders in Norway. Recently, gender equality has been put on the agenda: sexual harassment. But this is nothing new. The numbers we've had for a long time, and at the end of the red-green government period, we put down the skeie selection to work on equality and on sexual harassment. The sample proposed, among others: a national programme against sexual harassment in school to treat sexual harassment with the same severity as bullying. It has not been implemented during an entire government period. It is also not part of the government's draft budget for next year. This is just one of several recommendations from the Skjeie Committee that this government has not followed up. I would therefore like to ask the representative of the Progress Party what measures the government is giving priority to combating sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11742	I think the representative of the Socialist Left takes up a very important question, first of all because we all have a responsibility to settle sexual harassment. Of course, action plans, government and greatness can do a lot, but I actually believe that the most important effort is what we do as individuals, and that we dare to lift the debate. That's why I think what's most natural to do from this pulpit today is to give a big thank you to those who've dared to stand in that debate, dare to lift the debate, because we don't have the voices that dare to tell about the traumatic and difficult things they've experienced, nor do you have anything to build politics out of. But to stand here and promise some concrete suggestions over the table now I can't.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11747	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11752	The centre party has ambitions for good services near people across the country – not least for children and families. The centre party wants a family policy that will give parents time, space and opportunity to be parents. Our child and family policies should help balance social differences, create good quality of life and give all children the right to a safe and healthy upbringing. The reality of children in their families, in kindergartens, in school and in the voluntary field in the form of culture, sport and leisure is crucial if they are to grow up well together. Through a series of efforts in our alternative budget, the Centre Party wants to balance social, economic and geographical differences and ensure good growth conditions for children and young people, wherever they live. We do that first and foremost by strengthening the financial framework of municipalities with a total of 2.4 billion. So I'm going to add up to 1.5 billion. extra kr to the county. Our commitment to equalising differences is also demonstrated by increasing benefits for families with children, strengthening public responsibility for child protection measures, introducing two child care admissions per year, introducing free school fruit and giving more money to camp school education – and not least by strengthening the cultural field and the voluntary sector. We in the Center Party are concerned that the economic differences between groups are increasing, and not least for the growing poverty of our society. We would stress that alongside pursuing a policy that does not favour those who already have more than enough, it is necessary to work cross-sectorally to lift people out of poverty. The alternate budget of the Central Party contributes globally to the proper direction of society. The government provides a weak budget in the child and family fields. It is particularly regrettable that child welfare, which has a smoothing effect, is still at rest on the ground. I believe that it is now necessary to implement a child-rescue escalation plan, so that it increases in line with overall price developments. The Central Party has therefore added a total increase of 117 million in its alternative budget. kr for the child’s pension. The lump-sum benefit is another important scheme for those who have not been in hard work before birth. It turns out that many of the families who receive the disposable benefit at birth today have a difficult financial situation. In seven out of ten cases where mother receives lump-sum benefits, the families live below or around the low income limit. The single-use benefit is a good one-time benefit and has served as a safety valve for too many families, especially in phases such as newly-baked parents. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left through the conciliation have ensured an increase in the social benefits. I would also like to point out that in its alternative budget, the Central Party proposed to increase the lump sum by NOK 1000. So here we're in line with the conciliators. Child protection is a very complex field. The main objective of child protection is to ensure that children and young people living under conditions that could harm their health and development receive timely assistance and secure growing-up conditions. There are major challenges to this sector. I notice that the government will grant 500 million. kr for private child protection measures, against a corresponding reduction in municipal child protection measures. The centre party strongly disagrees with this priority. We and everyone else have been given the VG's revelations about how large amounts of million have gone to the benefit of commercial actors in the field of child protection. This is a very serious and negative development, which we see spreading in a number of areas of society. The powerful belief of the government that the market should also be the solution in this area, I just think it is nitrist. In fact, in addition to the fact that people's tax money should primarily be spent on services to people, a market-liberalist social project becomes so that our collective responsibility quickly disappears. Such a direction does not want the center party. We have faith in the Community solutions and want to strengthen them here. That's why we're voting for a profit-free child protection in the case tonight, and that's why we're giving your municipal child protection back half a billion. Families, children and young people also benefit from all the other measures and activities that volunteer for, and we strengthen the volunteer by 357 million. kr. Finally, I would like to highlight the need that still exists to increase equality in Norway. We're not on target. There is no doubt that until now very many women have been limited in their effectiveness because of the sexual harassment we have heard of. We in the Centre Party are strengthening the gender equality centres in our alternative budget, which I am pleased that the budgetary agreement also did. But we are asked whether we should not have strengthened it any more – whether it is allowed to say in such an article. [[The President clubs.]] I hope I get more with me on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11775	That's it. The President assumes that the representative will make some proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11782	I'm going to – I'm going to take up the proposals from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11788	Then the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11795	Children's protection throughout the country would have a cold New Year's morning if the Central Party's alternative budget had been given a majority in this Chamber. After the fireworks had stopped, you would no longer have the opportunity to buy child-rescue seats for over half a billion. This is not a place that the country could have set up on two weeks' notice. And there's no reason to think that we'd be able to get the places at the same cost, especially when it's also $9 million. kr less for the administration of the State Children’s Protection Agency and more than 13 million. kr less to various development measures in municipal child protection. I would like to ask the representative, Sem-Jacobsen, where she would advise these children to contact them on 1 January, if she had been able to make an impact on her policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11802	In the government's budget proposal, it's like taking funds that are already in the municipality and moving to the private sector. This means that all of a sudden the funds that are already in place are being redeployed, and I cannot believe that all of a sudden the companies to which the representative refers are going to be affected already on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11807	I got a nice question from the representative of the Central Party instead, so I think I can put the same question back: what is the representative most satisfied with that the Progress Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right have got into this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11812	I like that there has been a good commitment to a lot of family policy. In particular, I am concerned that the child poverty has been reinforced extra. I'd like to see all the parties, including the Center Party, be even more offensive there, because it's been shown lately that there's some of what we really need to ‘driving’ on. So if there's something I'm very pleased that they've managed to do, it's the promise against poverty in families.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11817	If I'm going to help the Center Party a little bit to answer the first question, it has to do with the fact that it's totally unrealistic to come up with a new offer so quickly after one has budgeted the revenue from cutting in the private supply directly. It goes a little way into the Central Party's alternative budget, where one budgets with revenue from a whole bunch of so-called billion-dollar bureaucrats, and budgets with revenue from 1 January. So the question is to the degrees relevant: how in every day has the Senter Party planned to finance alternative supply when revenue may come one or two years later?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11822	When we add a budget, it's clear that we have to take the budget proposition from the government that comes first to us. When that includes, among other things: says you're going to have to take 500 million. kr from municipal child protection and move over to the private and we don't want to be involved, we have to make visible in our budget that it's a cut we don't want to be on, and we don't go well for. Then we're assuming that if there's companies that go beyond it, it's going to work out, but we just can't be involved in such a posting. I can't.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11827	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11832	SV has provided an alternative budget with a continuous red thread. The red thread is that our budget should be for the many, and not just for the few. The government has a policy tailored to the elite in Norway. While the differences in power and wealth are increasing, the government is rigging important welfare offers, such as child protection, for the benefit of the few instead of caring for the small ones. There are increasing numbers of poor children in Norway, while child welfare is losing its real value every year. There is a distribution struggle in all budget areas, and unlike the government, SV has chosen ordinary people's side, not the economic elite and welfare groups. In the budget we are discussing now, this distribution is especially about whether the big money should go to the small ones among us, or whether they should go to the already large wallets and the large groups. Nearly 100,000 young people now grow up in poor families. Of almost 100,000 kids, many are afraid of Christmas because they won't have a good Christmas dinner or have a lot of nice packages during the Christmas tree. It's kids who can't go on birthday because their parents can't afford gifts, kids who can't be on the football team because their parents can't afford membership. These kids are walking around with a lump in their stomachs. They know that they have far less than everyone around them. They know that they can't be equal to the other kids. It's dangerous for every child who gets fewer opportunities than other kids. But it's also dangerous for society, because we know that today's poor children often become the poor adults of tomorrow, who fall outside society. Therefore SV chooses to prioritize the large sums to the smallest of us. We propose in our alternative state budget to spend 1.8 billion. kr more to escalate the child's back. It has been silent since 1996 – most of my life. A lot has happened since I was three years old, among other things. prices have increased so much that child welfare has become a third less valuable. The distribution committee clearly stated that increasing child welfare would be the most effective and targeted action to combat child poverty in a universal way. Note the two words for later line exchange! It is effective and targeted because it is unbureaucratic, because it hits a group of expenses by having children directly, and because those who get child welfare do not lose it when they get a job. That's why it doesn't keep anyone out of work either. The committee concluded that increasing child protection from back to 1996 would therefore help about 20,000 young people out of poverty. That is why SV is proposing it. 1.8 B.C.E. Now it is only the start of a stepping-up to reach 1996 levels. We are increasing universally in order not to create poverty traps, and we are introducing and strengthening targeted additions for those groups that are most at risk of ending up in poverty, namely the lone carers and families with more children. We also propose to strengthen the fight against child poverty in a number of other areas: 180 million. DKK in order not to give less social assistance money, 20 million. kr more to the national grant scheme against child poverty, SEK 15 million. for action by children and young people in cities and 50 million more. kr more in big city grants, just to mention something. One might go a little bit wild in all of these big numbers, but it's finally about prioritizing the big money to the smallest of us. Some of the smallest are also some of the most vulnerable. Many of them are in contact with child protection because their families somehow need help to give their children the care they need. We know that there are major challenges in child protection today. Therefore, it is so unfair that large international buying-in funds should make money on the offer to these vulnerable kids. SV believes that every crown that has been awarded to the Child Welfare Service should go to care for the children, not to tropical islands with very many mailboxes. Therefore, SV proposes to reverse the government’s proposed cut in the state child protection and increase in the purchase of private child protection services. Instead, we want to build the public offering through 200 million. kr more in increased crewing of municipal child protection, eartag, 50 million. kr. more to the State and 15 million. for increased competence. It's about using the big sums at least among us instead of letting our welfare crowns go out of the country in profit. It will provide more secure adults with expertise and care for the children who need it the most. That is why I am proud to deliver the SV's budget for the many, not for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11855	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11860	They're taken up by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11866	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11873	SV’s representative Headquarters says in the setting that helping children out of poverty must be one of the policy’s most important tasks. It is difficult to disagree with him – even though I record that we choose different solutions for this task. 10 pst. of our children live with persistent low income, and the government makes a good effort through efforts to include them, as well as working to raise them through a better school. The child's weight is 8 pst today. of the total income of the low income families. SV wants to spend 1.9 billion. SEK to give these families and all other families with young children 90 SEK more each month, i.e. that the child-restraint will be 8,6 pst. of the total income of these families. Does the representative of the Supreme Court think that this is the best way to help children out of poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11882	Thank you for a good question. I'm glad to be allowed to talk more about our proposal to increase child welfare. Firstly, I would like to refer again to the government-appointed distribution committee, which is made up of experts, and which clearly stated that increasing child welfare will be the most effective and targeted measure to reach all families with children and combat child poverty, so we are leaning on the professional expertise here. In addition, I want to give a calculation example back, because as we know, we're introducing some supplements in the family's family's family with the greatest risk of ending up in child poverty, as mentioned above. For example, it involves: that lone dependants will receive an allowance of 265 kroner per month in child care. Then you start talking about quite large expansions in the family economy, which too many will be the difference as to whether they can afford to send the kids to football or not. I am very pleased that we are proposing this in our budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11891	I think it's positive that so many people in this room are talking about equality, because it's important. But I record that what the Progress Party and I call female entrepreneurs, are some other representatives, and often representatives from SV, call welfare professionals. I then wonder – based on the debate we have had today on child protection, and what we have heard from SV about kindergartens in the past – whether it would be a good equality policy if many children had stood without a nursery place. And is SV still behind the kindergarten agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11896	I can confirm that we are on the kindergarten agreement, and I think it is a pre-emption of this debate to say that SV wants to put down private kindergartens. We've never said that, and we'll never do that either. We want to say that every penny that is allocated to both child protection and kindergartens should go to just that. The claim about the women entrepreneurs has been thoroughly checked in the election campaign, so it surprises me that the representative of the Progress Party continues to use this rhetoric. Because it turns out that, in general, there are men — quite thoroughly overrepresented as well — who own the international funds that are now buying into our welfare, and that also goes beyond equality. Because what we see is that the working conditions of these commercial welfare services are worse. And there are just a lot of women working, for example. in the care professions. Therefore, it is good gender equality policy to ensure that each and every krone allocated to well-being is well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11903	The representative of Oberstegård holds a rhetorical post where he says something like “much to the few and little to the little ones”, saying that he is more concerned with who provides the services than with who are the recipients. At the same time, the representative is extremely concerned about – and that is good, because we are all – increasing child poverty. At the same time, we know that 53.4 pst. of all children in low-income families, children with a migrant background. I want to ask the representative if SV acknowledges that the increased immigration we have seen – those we have received in Norway – is actually also the reason for the increased child poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11908	Thank you for a good question. I like to talk about child poverty very much. There's something I spent a lot of my election campaign on in Eastfold, which probably my fellow Eastfolding noticed. I really think Eastfold is a good example of how we can not only view immigration as the explanation of growing child poverty, as the government does. Because there we see that the increase in the number of poor children and in the proportion of poor children is not related to the increase in immigration, so there must be several aspects to this. We are in any case – to underline it – concerned that it doesn't matter what kind of color the kid has, as long as that kid needs more money to have equal opportunities to achieve everything it wants to do in his life. That's why we're more concerned with talking about good distribution policy than we are about blame for increased immigration. And we hope that also the government will gradually join us and talk about the good measures, instead of explaining it by talking about immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11919	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11924	The family budget, which today receives several figures, is increasing, as the case-leader said at its inception, against child poverty to a record height of 270 million. kr. The scheme shall allow more children from low-income families to participate in leisure activities in line with others. She has been targeted, unbureaucratic and requested, and she has no doubt contributed to increasing participation for this group. This is part of a historic effort against child poverty, which includes several other schemes, both above the family budget and above other budgetary frameworks. It was one of the most important priorities for the Left in what was the cooperation agreement on the civil side in the previous period, after we had experienced that one through changing governments was unable to solve the challenges. This will also be an equally important matter for the Left Forward. For a socially liberal party, one of the basic principles is precisely to enable people to participate in society on reasonable, equal terms, regardless of social and economic background, through school, kindergarten and good welfare arrangements. Children never choose their parents or the family they are born into. Everyone is responsible for each other and to ensure that future generations have the same possibilities for the exercise of freedom that we have. As a society, we have a duty to help others secure the freedoms of life, among others. precisely by fighting poverty, and especially among young people. In one of the richest countries in the world, it is almost heartbreaking to think that there are still almost 100,000 children growing up in relative poverty. The last SSB report shows that the proportion of children raised in low-income families continued to increase from 2014 to 2015. Especially children's families with immigrant background make up an increasingly large part of this group. Since the last four years, Norway has taken a significant part of the international responsibility we have, and will have – among others. for quota refugees – as before, which we will also be doing in 2018, this is not surprising. But it's alarming and provides a basis for thinking new. In our alternative budget, the Left proposed a series of small and large measures to reduce child poverty. We know that the causes of poverty are complex and need to be reduced widely. Work is required to get more people working in the field of drugs and psychiatry, in the field of immigration and integration, and to ensure real redistribution. And it doesn't take the least effort in kindergarten and schoolwork. The left has been a champion of this very thing and has had an impact for free core time in kindergartens for 4- and 5-year-olds in the 2015 state budget and for 3-year-olds in 2016. In this way, almost 25,000 low-income families have experienced significantly lower child care costs in 2017. 33,000 kids have had cheaper kindergartens, and 18,000 have had free core time. In the budget we are adopting today, the income ceiling for differentiated upkeep payments in kindergartens will be increased to NOK 533 000, which will provide more than 6 500 children with a more reasonable or free kindergarten. In the future, it is important to introduce the corresponding schemes into the SFO with free part-time space for low-income families and the maximum price and differentiated maintenance payment according to the model from kindergartens. For several years, the left has been the only party that has been in charge of redistributing child-responsibilities. We're not anymore. In 2017, the selection for the distribution of support to the NOU children’s families was made. It was decided that in a new era, universal arrangements would require a shift from contact points to services, and the recommended introduction of targeted and differentiated child protection, which we can also find in the alternative budget of the Left – a proven neutral change with great significance for those who need it the most. Nevertheless, there is great resistance in this room, among others. with an argument that it would be bureaucratic and costly to compare cash payments with tax bills – in 2017, at a time when major changes are being made to get different ICT systems to talk to each other. It's almost impossible to understand. In any case, Me and Left look forward to following up the work and recommendations of the selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11945	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11950	In Norway, we have a tradition of universal welfare schemes, including free education, free health care, sick pay or unemployment benefits. The keyword for all these arrangements is that they shall apply to all, irrespective of income. Most of us think it's a positive thing, because we all contribute to all of these Community solutions. Child-responsiveness is also such a universal system today. The Community re-distributes from the life phases without children to the life phase with children in order to contribute to the cost of raising all young people well, regardless of their parent’s economy — that is at least the idea. On the other hand, the left, at the latest now, has been set up to test the need for the protection of children. I would therefore like to ask the representative Breivik from the Left what distinguishes child welfare from other universal schemes, which make it exactly necessary, and whether he sees the danger of trying out child welfare can make it a poverty trap that prevents people from getting a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11958	The left is entirely in agreement with the idea that universal systems are important in themselves, so that the system has legitimacy in all parts of the population. She's still universal, but in the alternative budget to the left, we're reducing child welfare by 500 kroner for the richest part of us, we're increasing it for approx. One third of the recipients, and the third in the middle, maintain child-restraint as today. So the third with the lowest income gets $500 i plus. I expect that the representative of Övstegård knows just as well as I do that if you want to get a corresponding increase of 500 kroner for anyone who accepts child welfare today, when child welfare costs us about 15-16 billion. It is such a large sum that no government has been able to give priority to it in its draft budget. So one doesn't have the ability to get the same, important effect for those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11965	The representative Breivik spoke warmly about the follow-up to the Ellingseter Committee. One of the conclusions of the NOU from the sample is that cash benefits should be turned into universal services. The sample concludes, as most of the samples before, and as most of the lots in this room also, that the cash support has expired and should be removed. What does Mr Breivik really think about the cash support line of the Right and the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11972	The left hand side of the selection relates to the cash support and has shown it in its alternative budget. As I expect, the representative of Trettebergstien is well aware of: in a good and respectful cooperation, there are some things that you can win, and other things that you don't get the same through.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11977	I see Left as a party that is genuinely concerned with preventing child poverty, and we know that child-responsiveness is a system that benefits children's families and other families. That's why we got child welfare, because child care families don't get any specific taxes, but they get child welfare as a compensation for not being compensated otherwise. In this respect, the Left's proposal to use the family of children is not linked to what child-restraint was supposed to be, i.e. a distribution between families of children and others. Does the representative Breivik not see that this can become a very marginal scheme if you are going to start an emergency test?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11984	I would like to have the same easy access to money that the Central Party has had in its alternative budget. When you don't have it, you have to reprioritize it. We know that more money every month is the most urgent measure you can have to fight child poverty. Then child-responsive, which many people have pointed to, is one of the most targeted instruments one has. In the absence of funds to increase the whole scheme, we have rather chosen to go for a model where one takes 500 kroner from the richest and gives them 500 kroner to the poorest, or those with the lowest income. In this way, one effect is that they are left with NOK 11,000 more per year, i.e. a direct, well targeted action.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11989	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e11994	All politicians agree that children have the right to a safe childhood and that it is important that we take the child perspective into account when we launch new policies. The Christian People's Party translates these good intentions for children into concrete figures and actions. The Christian People's Party's priorities have been clear for a long time – long before the year's budgetary negotiations. Our policies are for those who need policy the most, and, above all, among these are the children. As the Child Policy Spokesman of the Christian People's Party, appointed by the Children's Ombudsman – which I am very proud of – or perhaps most of all as a father and grandfather – it was heartwarming to read in the report Failure and Betrayal, which the Child Violence Committee delivered this summer. We haven't done enough to prevent society's least to be subjected to gross violence and abuse. The Christian People's Party worked last year to get a broad political body around the escalation plan against violence against children and young people and has since fought for its follow-up in the budget. In this year's negotiations, the Christian People's Party prioritised over 100 million. extra to work and action against violence against children. One of the smaller, but still one of the most important, appropriations for child protection goes to the Change Factory. A very disturbing discovery made by the Children's Violence Committee was that the children were not heard. In several cases, the children who were subjected to violence were never interviewed alone, and the adults who were to help them identified themselves with the perpetrators and were reassured if the disdained messages of concern. The Christian People's Party has strengthened the grant to the Change Factory for several years because we see the need for children and young people's experience to be heard and taken seriously both in the event of care failure and in the event of system failure. Another group that really needs us politicians to take the child perspective seriously are the children who fall outside crucial social arenas, such as leisure activities, holiday offers or birthday parties, children who can't be on football because their parents can't afford to pay the equipment or the cu price. In one of the richest countries in the world, no children will have to grow up in economic exclusion. That is why the Christian People's Party also prioritised action against child poverty in the year's budget, and we increased the grants to the Barnas Station in several cities, the Blue Cross's holiday work, the Red Cross' Holiday for all and the FREE. In addition, we know that volunteering for children and young people is a very important contribution to the fight against exclusion. The Christian People's Party therefore strengthens the appropriations for, among other things, National Council of Norway Children’s and Youth Organisations. The Christian People's Party is working for an inclusive community, and we need that from the time we're children. I want to mention a budget envelope that we're a little proud of, and that's the extra four months of leave for twin parents. Coming home with one child is fantastic, but coming home with two – yes, it's double joy, but it's also twice as much work. To avoid having just two hands that take care of these children day and night, you now have the opportunity of four hands that can do it work in the first four months. The last budget outlay I want to raise is about the smallest children – the one-year-olds who experience the transition from quiet home life to an active day of kindergarten, who experience it as a demanding one, and who could need a gradual renunciation over a little longer than just these three days of renunciation. By making cash support more flexible, the Christian People's Party will give parents the opportunity to give one-year-olds shorter or fewer days in kindergarten in the first year. The cash support debate continues to promise that this scheme is problematic for the labour market and hinders integration. But the primary commitment of the Christian People's Party is to the children, and Norwegian politics needs a party that prioritises the best of the children and has it as an overall goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12009	Let me first make a little clarification: the movement of 500 million. kr from item 01 to item 22 does not imply changes in the use of funds or increase in the purchase of private services, but is a more realistic budgeting. It is therefore a technical budgeting, and the use of resources for private and state child protection is relatively similar to that in both 2016 and 2017. The government is working for a secure framework for families and for the growth of children. With the government's draft budget and the good budgetary agreement – thank you to the Left and Christian People's Party – we have now received a budget to improve the situation of vulnerable children and families. Child protection often has to make demanding assessments and decisions that have a significant impact on them. It imposes high standards of competence on employees. The government has therefore presented its own competence strategy of 83 million. kr, which will provide a significant level of competence for municipal child protection. We've never said that this is 83 million. Healthy crowns, but that is the first time such a large sum has been granted to the employees of municipal child-restraints. The initiative is part of the child protection reform, and it is a competence strategy that will last until 2024. The principle of subsidiarity is important in the choice of child protection measures. The child protection reform will give municipalities greater opportunities and incentives to build up their own actions and services where the child and family live. The competence strategy shall contribute to the preparation of municipalities for increased responsibilities for the protection of children. In addition, we have started work on improving basic education and training. At the same time, we strengthen the continuing training of employees, and next year, three new training courses will be set up for child-restraint workers. Competence measures are also followed up with grants for continuing training and local development projects. This will allow both small and large municipalities to give priority to competence enhancement and quality development, regardless of the municipality's economy. The grant can be used both for temporary workers, for training and for travel. Children and young people in need of both child protection and mental health protection treatment may experience falling between two chairs and may not get the coordinated assistance they need. That is why we have strengthened efforts to improve cooperation between child protection and the health sector, in particular in mental health. Now, all child protection institutions shall have their own health officer, and mental health protection for children and young people shall have their own child protection officers. We also strengthen the outpatient services of children’s and young people’s psychiatry, so that children in child protection institutions receive the necessary treatment. This has been longed for, and finally it comes. There are now two separate care and treatment institutions for children in need of both child protection and mental health protection. Two institutions now being converted must be located in the municipalities of Søgne and in the municipality of Bodø. It is therefore not true that the proposal would affect the institutional capacity of the state child protection system, for children who are offered in these institutions would, in any case, be living in a child protection institution. Several have been concerned with combating violence and abuse against children. Violence is one of the most serious threats to a safe childhood. A year ago, we presented an escalation plan against violence and assault. Then you can always discuss whether there should have been more money in this escalation plan, but let me stress that for the first time, a government has presented a stepping-up plan in this field, which we have also committed ourselves to follow up. When I hear the representative from the Workers' Party here, I would like to recall the constructive work of the Christian People's Party in dealing with the escalation plan, which used the time from Stortingen to the matter, until it was discussed, to promote concrete proposals and to promise this work. The Labour Party had six months to decide that they would vote against, instead of making proposals that could improve this escalation plan, if that's what they wanted. The total bet for next year is 811 million. kr. We strengthen the police's capacity for investigation, we strengthen the State Children's House, and we strengthen prevention. The strengthening of Kripos’ work on sexual law offences is a strong signal that the area of violence should be prioritised, and the fight against Internet-related child abuse has also been reinforced. I am pleased that the budget agreement also strengthens the grant for Alternatives to Violence, ATV, so that more offices can now offer victims and their children. There may not be so much money in the area of the BLD, but it shows how important the escalation work to combat violence and abuse against children is in several sectors in which the government is working. The government is also working on a parental support strategy. It is a goal that all parents who need it should receive guidance and proper help. We know that can dampen parental conflicts, strengthen care and prevent children from being subjected to violence and care failure. The Children's Violence Committee delivered its investigation, failure and betrayal, in June. There was one that many people could have seen and done something to prevent violence and abuse, and that the cases could have been discovered much earlier. One of the things that characterized matters was that proper conversations with children were missing. Therefore, I am pleased that the Regional Resource Centre on Violence, Traumatic Stress and Suicide Prevention, RVTS, is now developing a training programme in talking to children and young people about violence and assault. This is a program to be launched in springtime. Family protection has been and is a major effort in the field of family policy. The service has been provided with significant funds in recent years, at the latest in the budgetary agreement. Priority shall be given to the prevention of family protection in cooperation with municipalities and the fight against violence and abuse. There is also a lot of exciting development work in family protection, and we are now evaluating a cooperation project between family protection offices and health centres in five municipalities. Experience so far shows that the provision of family protection at health centres contributes to the prevention of conflicts and provides support to parents whose conflicts arise. The Enerhaugen Family Protection Office further cooperates with the Stovner Police Station on honor-related violence. It gives us new experiences and new approaches in our work. The number and proportion of children living in families with persistent low incomes in Norway is increasing. We're worried about that, like more people here, and I'm glad that we've now got a more reasonable kindergarten for families with low incomes. A national system of free core time in kindergarten has also been important for this. Action against child poverty has been further reinforced by the budgetary agreement and the national grant scheme is now worth some 270 million. kr, which means that several children in low-income families can participate in leisure activities and go on vacation. Strengthening is also important for the Leisure Declaration, because the Leisure Declaration aims to enable all children, regardless of their parents’ finances, to participate regularly in at least one organised leisure activity. 1 January becomes a historic day. We will then have effective anti-discrimination protection in place. The new discrimination title shall take over tasks currently assigned to the Equality Ombudsman for the enforcement of the law. The Ombudsman should become clearer in his driving role, because we need someone who is on the agenda. The handling of complaints should be speeded up, because it is about the rights of the victims. And for the first time, there will be consequences to discriminate, as the new denominator will be empowered to impose upliftment. I am also pleased that Norway was ranked number 2 this year in the coup d'état of Europe's best LHBTI country. The Government’s action plan against discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression has contributed to this. Next year, we will launch a broad and nationwide survey of living conditions among LHBTI individuals. Hateful statements we know have great consequences for individuals and for society. The work against hateful statements is therefore high on the government's agenda, and next year we will strengthen the follow-up to the strategy against hateful statements. I note that the majority of the Committee today proposes to set up a sample to investigate any law on ethics information. I can then inform the Norwegian Government that the government has decided to drop a sample in the new year, so it will be implemented. I am pleased that we have now put in place a good budget, and that there is broad support for the measures that we are continuing, and for those that we are launching next year, in this area. The most important thing is that we now have a budget that improves the situation of vulnerable children and families.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12053	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12058	The suspicion of a lack of commitment by the Council of State to the strengthening of gender equality is exacerbated by the handling of the ongoing conversion work of the Ombudsman. In June, the government asked the government to address the resource needs related to the creation and, where appropriate, the transfer of new names. In the draft budget we are now discussing, the government categorically rejects the need to strengthen the budget. And to the committee, the government has through Prop. 19 S of 24 November said that money is still needed to deal with the changes in the enforcement system. All the time the rejection of increased resource needs was so evident in the budget presentation, what has happened in just a few weeks that makes the Council of State change?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12063	We are now undertaking a major transformation in the field of gender equality, where the new discrimination topic is to take over tasks that are currently at the disposal of the Equality Ombudsman. I have always been quite clear that this is a conversion process that we will follow closely. So it is not right that money be cut, because the Ombudsman loses some work, so then the money follows the problems. So I have to say that it is positive that the government, as it has said all along, will follow this process carefully – this will not come into force until 1 January – in the effusion in November had the opportunity to strengthen the budget of LDO by 1.2 million. kr. The representative Henriksen also knows that when you sit in August and make a budget, things can happen from August until November. Therefore, when I've said so clearly to the Storting that I'm going to follow this process carefully, that's why we've increased a little bit to the LDO for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12073	Yes, the Labour Party is very pleased with the increase, because we have thought that it has been necessary to look at it also within the budget. So that's good. But the government has decided to redo money to get this done, and what they're taking from it is 1 million. kr from the contribution of the State budget to information, research and development actions for disabled persons. Why did the Minister choose that post? Does the Minister think that we are in the goal of facilitating people with disabilities, and that this group was the most natural group to take 1 million. kr from?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12078	The redeployments that we have done here are budgetary. That is, this is money that we can't get used up in that area, or that concerns things that have been completed, and that's why it was 1.2 million. NOK again when we were working on the new aging process – as it was then natural to transfer to the Equality Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12083	When the Council of State appointed Horne as a representative of the Family and Culture Committee in the period 2010-2011, her party was supportive of the fact that both mother and father had an independent entitlement to parental leave: ‘These members would point out that all people should initially be able to process their rights through their own tasks and therefore believe that parental leave should be based on the professional activity of each parent.’; It further stated in the note that: ‘Mother’s and father’s right to parental leave, as well as the introduction of self-sufficiency and right of withdrawal, are the main instruments for the equal distribution of parental leave’. Today, the Council of State probably believes otherwise. What is the reason why the position has changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12098	The position has not changed, and it could be tempting to come up with the Soria Moria statement from the two Stoltenberg governments, which also clearly shows that they want to work in order for Dad to have an autonomous exit right. Today, Father has a self-employment right, but there is an activity obligation attached to that right of withdrawal. That's something we're going to look at now because we've got an opinion from ESA. But if my father gets an autonomous exit right, it'll cost almost 600 million. NOK – 800 million. NOK if we base the new spring quota that will apply from 1 July 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12103	The child-responsive employees do a huge job, we all appreciate it. Nevertheless, the framework for this enormously important work is far from well enough today. 80 pst. Employees of child protection who responded to a study conducted by FO say that they have so many cases to deal with that goes beyond quality. Up to 30 children per case manager are reported, and this is not unique. Despite the concerns expressed by the trustees, the Council of State has expressed its satisfaction that 1 000 new posts have been created in the municipal child protection system during this period. Nevertheless, a review by the FO shows that only 90 new positions have been created in municipal child protection as a result of earmarked funds from the government. The rest of the municipalities had to prioritise themselves to keep up with all the issues. My question to the Council of State is then whether the government is pleased to have contributed to 90 new posts, and whether the government will continue to take responsibility for the municipalities, as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12110	The most important child protection work is in the municipalities, and I am very happy that we now see that it is 19 pst. increase in the number of persons employed from 2013 to 2016. It shows that municipalities give priority to child protection, and they also have a duty to do so. I am pleased that the government has increased the budgets for municipal child protection by 165 million. kr in the last few years. There is also an increase in municipal child protection in the budget agreement. Our main commitment to municipal child protection has been to increase competence, because we see that it has been long-lasting. I am pleased that it is well received – that we are now making a commitment to the competence of municipal child protection, to increase competence. There are now no municipalities that can be responsible for the local economy if they do not send their employees to continuing training.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12117	When the state budget was presented in October, I have to say that I was disappointed again to experience that the government proposed a cut to the equality centres. I would like to have a reason why the Minister for Gender Equality thinks it's okay. And when can we expect the Minister for Gender to come up with a government budget where equality centres have actually been strengthened?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12122	It has been important for us to also strengthen several aspects of gender equality. It's a political priority made by the Council of State, we cut 2 million. kr of a budget of more than 50 million. to the equality centres to give priority to the LHBTI living conditions survey and to strengthen efforts towards hateful opinions. This was a priority that we did in an area. I am very pleased that the money has also come back in the budgetary agreement with both the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12129	I want to follow up on the line of the representative Bekkevold. It is true that every budget has come and been put on the table with the same gender equality cuts from the Right and the Advance Party, among others. cut to the equality centres. Equality centres are the centres where people work and live, with people who guide businesses and individuals in what rights they have, and employers in what duties they have. It's a place you can come, you train teachers and kindergarten staff in how you actively work on equality. There are our foot soldiers in the fight for increased equality. I think it's a priority matter what you put money in the budget. This government doesn't give priority to equality at all, you give priority to other things. Why does the Council of State think that precisely the equality centres can tolerate these cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12140	I want to remind the representative that we spend over 50 million. kr to the equality centres today, so to say that this is a big cut, is exaggerating. It was a cut from us of 2 million. NOK, which has now come in again. It was a priority to spend money in other areas of gender equality that was important to the government. I would like to stress that this government strengthens the gender equality work. We know that violence against women is one of the greatest gender equality challenges we have today. The commitment made in terms of victim care in each single police district — which is intended to provide help from women reporting until a judgment is given — is also a major measure of gender equality to ensure that women who are subjected to violence are protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12147	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12153	Designing a government budget is about political priorities all the way. In order to recapture the thread from the line I just had, it is that when you choose to leave a budget area to stand still and constantly put on the small cut, as well as that the government's so-called efficiency reform involves cut off at the top, it actually means that all the equality actors have got real cut over four years. When the equality centres are put on a cut of 2 million. kr in each budget submitted, it means less driving work out there, less equal for those who actually do the job out. The Council of State did not talk about equality policy. It might not be so strange, because it's not an area that this government has a lot to boast about -- on the contrary. The effort has been so boisterous that the party of the Council of State, the party of Advancement, and the Right, i.e. the government, were parked by an overall opposition in connection with the treatment of the equality notification almost two years ago. In addition to providing a communication that did not contain a single equality measure that could further equality, they have attempted in every budget to cut the gender equality policy that has worked, cut the paperwork, cut the full-time funds, cut the activity and reporting obligations, cut the gender equality centres, cut the allocation to the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, LDO, and in the allocation to LHBT. In fact, equality does not come of itself. Every day you have to work to change the structures that create ‘inequality’. The Labour Party is committed to equal opportunities. We did that when we presented our alternative gender equality message, and we put in every state budget on LDO, on paper, on our own tripartite cooperation, on municipal reform, on full-time projects, and on strengthening the obligation of activity and reporting. The representative Heimdal spoke instead of the #metoo campaign. And what she said, I believe is representative of the view of the Right and the Progress Party on precisely equality. The representative said that the most important thing was not what the policy is doing, but what each of us is doing. It's absolutely right that we should distance ourselves from sexual harassment. It's absolutely right that each of us has to be good role models and has to say from when we see that injustice is being committed. But we as politicians actually have a responsibility to do more. The big deal makes laws, and the government grants money. Policies alone cannot solve the problem of sexual harassment, but we can take measures that make it more difficult to engage in sexual harassment. We can bet on better gender equality work in kindergarten and at school. We can get it into the Training Act, we can get it into the Work Environment Act, we can make lower alert thresholds. While the #metoo campaign took off and all of us politicians, of course, distanced themselves from the terrible stories we heard, the government provided a budget where they cut off the low-threshold offers, such as Free Legal Aid, Gate Lawyer, LDO, equality centres, etc. Gender equality policy and strengthening gender equality policy are, in fact, the best means of achieving a lasting end to sexual harassment. I believe that the debate after #metoo should now be a little bit more about it, and I also believe that the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party should soon realise that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12170	The #metoo campaign created an opportunity room and a movement for women all over the Western world where they could stand up and say that they had experienced abuse of power, sexual harassment and assault. Also in Norway, women emerged, and some of the stories that appeared in the media are to be considered rape, much unpleasant and examples of oppression of women. This shows that many places in Norway have a terrible unculture. The #metoo campaign is important because it gave a free space where women could stand up, and many probably needed a free space because they felt they couldn't stand up in the environment, the group or the working environment they were part of. The #metoo campaign also shows that equality is raging and very culturally dependent. We all have a responsibility to promote equality in our workplace, and we all have a responsibility to make sure that we are there because of our competence, our talent, and that we don't have to do anything extra to get things done. We all share a shared responsibility to create the culture that makes young people want to be part of our working life. If there is an unculture in a work environment, you actually have an obligation to say from behind. Section 8 of the Gender Equality Act prohibits sexual harassment and the prohibition continues in new equality and discrimination laws § 13. The new law has a slightly changed definition of sexual harassment, but it does not weaken the protection against sexual harassment. The law also states that employers and management of organisations and educational institutions in their area of responsibility should prevent and prevent sexual harassment. Equality can not only be adopted in this room, it must also be created out there. Sexual harassment in the labour market is a topic that the authorities discuss with social partners through tripartite cooperation. Figures from the SSB Living Conditions Survey on the Working Environment show that sexual harassment is a major challenge in parts of the world of work, and point in particular to the food industry and health and social issues. A total of 4.7 pst. i.e. about 123 000 economically active persons who, once a month or more, are exposed to unwanted sexual attention, comments or the like at work. There are more women than men, and particularly working women in the youngest age group, who are exposed. The Labour Party has called for action through the media and reinforced government legislation, but most of the stories that have emerged have already been a crime. The challenge is that they have not been notified and that there have been no consequences for those who are harassing. Talking about it is the first step on the way to doing something about it, and it makes it easier to alert and give notice. Employers who have not responded in the past should now know better. Women and men who experience harassment now know that they can report it with their heads raised. Even the top bosses have someone to answer to when these charges come, and in the future, leaders and prosecution authorities should be informed and able to clean up. Today, all public authorities, school authorities and employers have an obligation to work actively against harassment. We disagree that it is to individualise the responsibility to ask the industries to follow up the safety of their employees. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is responsible for investigating a low-threshold offer to enforce the ban on sexual harassment, as requested by the Stortinget. With regard to individual cases and issues of infringement of the law, these cases are often so complex that they belong in the courts, but we see that few cases come to the courts. The aim is to promote good and serious working conditions in the industry. The Labour Inspectorate has linked to the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, and there seems to be a broad consensus on the approach to work, where both workers and employers are now targeted. This will be a general scheme that can also be used by other industries, and will provide more knowledge of how to create a more equal culture in working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12195	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12200	We're lucky to be living in Norway, where most of us are doing well. Most of us have a job, a roof over our heads and are able to support themselves and their families. But we see that the differences increase significantly in a short time. In Drammen we have the highest child poverty among the big cities. Almost every five children – I repeat: every five children – grow up in a family of low incomes. It's well over 3,000 children. In the time we now go into, which is a magical time – Christmas is the time for children – many voluntary organisations report record numbers that don't have food for Christmas, and parents who can't afford to buy Christmas gifts. For the past few years, I have served as a Christmas rider for the Salvation Army, and it is a huge giver to the Norwegian people. But what makes the most impression on me is seeing kindergarten children and schoolchildren who come and deliver gifts under the Christmas tree right next to the Christmas row in Brerennan Square, to the children with parents who can't afford to buy Christmas gifts. It's heartbreaking to think about. Therefore, it is important that this increase can be set up for non-governmental organisations that make a great difference to very many. In many cities with a high proportion of child poverty, we find that only one adult is working, and there are many immigrant families. If we're going to fight poverty, there's only one solution that works. It's work, work, work. Then the Storting must have a business policy that creates jobs, so that people get the opportunity. And how does the Storting manage the community's resources? Yes, is it filling the wallets to the richest, or creating a society where everyone is going, which is most important? Norway has succeeded because we have a policy where we lift in flocks, where no one has to stand in the hand. We also have a policy that is clear, which I believe today's government is in breach, and that is the following: Do your duty – demand your right. Today, we have an anti-integrative government. We even have an anti-equality government, which makes immigrant women and immigrant families a great service. Thousands of kroner are distributed tax-free to be at home and not to participate in the labour market, through the cash support. This is not something the Workers' Party says. There are plenty of samples that have pointed it out over and over again, and the government itself points out that it is hampering employment. Therefore, the government should also take responsibility for inviting a poverty trap and making it lucrative for people not to participate in the labour market. Then the government must also take the consequences of its own policies. Unfortunately, we know that poverty is inherited. For the Workers' Party, it is clear. It is that the workline should apply. It is important for individuals, it is important for the family, and it is important for the future development of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12211	Thank you for your opportunity to join this debate. Family and child policy is a political area I think is getting too little political attention, also in election campaigns. I also want to make it clear that when it comes to child protection, many people do an extremely good job. Our goal must be a child's protection with confidence, where one has openness about what's going on. My concern about the child protection field is in particular that the tradition we've had in Norway with a lot of private, ideal providers, is a tradition that is now true. We are concerned that we also need to have a large number of private child protection providers in the future. In many ways we are now in a time of fate, because the supply regime and the increase in commercialisation are now threatening the non-profit sector. It may be that if we don't do anything about this right now, it will look different in a few years. We have proposed that 25 pst. by 2030, the health and care services shall be provided on a non-profit basis. This is quite possible. It stands on political will. But in child protection, not everything is solved with money. We have prioritised the municipal economy, because that is the most important thing we need to create a good child protection. But we also have to make sure that the money that we allow goes to the ones for which the services are intended, that is, the kids. Therefore, we must have better rules that prevent profits from private commercials. The centre party has called for a closeness reform in the protection of children. We believe that children should have a statutory right to be offered in their neighbourhood, and we need rules for how many times it should be okay to move a child from supply to supply. We have also been concerned with health care for children in the field of child protection. This is a priority in our hospital budget for next year. I record that they are making provision for two health care institutions. This is not enough. We also need to provide better health care for all the children in child protection who do not access these two institutions. We need to strengthen the BUP, and it does not happen with the hospital budget set up next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12224	Norway is not an equal society — not yet. In our country, one in ten women are subjected to rape during their lives. In addition, between 75 000 and 150000 people are exposed to violence in close relationships each year, many of whom are children. Then we're talking about a fundamental problem. If one in 10 had been out of work, it would have been on all the country's newspapers every day until the problem was resolved. That is why it is important to understand violence and abuse as a social problem that is about structures, about unequal power relationships, about sex and about equality, because there are women, as well as children, who are hardest hit by violence and abuse in close relationships, and the perpetrators of violence are usually men. As long as girls in Norway have to feel the fear of assault every time they go out into town, equality is not the goal. As long as women are controlled and subjected to violence by their boyfriends and cohabitants, you're not in the goal of equality. SV has long fought for political action against violence and abuse, from the time it was viewed as a private matter of individual parties, until now. But given the scale of the problem, too little is still done. Therefore, SV in its alternative state budget proposes to spend about 700 million. in a number of areas to combat violence and abuse. This includes, inter alia: a national campaign against rape targeting young people, a national programme against sexual harassment, 5 million. SEK more for the prevention of violence, 20 million. € more for the incest and rape centres and € 15 million. kr more to the crisis centres. As a feminist party, we see that this is a social problem, and that's why we give priority to spending money on that scale. As a feminist party, we are also concerned that the fight against oppressive structures and violence must be universal. Therefore, we must take the shameless girls and others seriously in their settlement with negative social control and honor-related violence. It's the same fight against repressive structures, violence and assault, regardless of color. That is why we must stand with these girls in solidarity. We strengthen the provision of assistance, such as crisis centres, in our alternative budget, we strengthen low-threshold services, as health centres with multicultural competence, and we propose funds for more competence and resources in child protection in terms of negative social control and honor-related violence, so that child protection can better understand minority families and come in earlier with relief measures. Nobody's free until everyone's free. That is why we are not in the goal of the gender equality fight until all women live in freedom from violence, abuse and negative social control.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12239	I hear there are several co-representatives who are wondering what we can do politically, for example. against sexual harassment. Then we can do what SV has proposed: to give money to programs that should be able to go to schools, where all students learn that they have the right to say no, that they own their own body, and that everyone learns that you have to respect those boundaries. It is one of the measures we are promoting, which is very important. I'm a little surprised that co-representatives don't understand that this should be part of the basic training we have, when we know how big the problem is with both harassment and violence. If you're busy preventing violence against women, you don't cut off the legal aid to the weakest of these women, namely those who get help from the JURK and the Gate Jurist. Then it really doesn't matter – to say it this way – that you say you're busy with it. So to the poor kids, yeah, it's good if people get a job, but they don't get a job being poor. We have to lift these families out of poverty, so that they can use their forces to qualify for the very complicated labour market that is now. That's why I also challenge the Workers' Party to be part of these promises for the poorest children's families, because then more people will come to work – plus sharing more fairly, which makes us also more successful in economic terms. It even means the OECD. Finally to Child Protection: I lead the Municipal Committee, and there we have proposed and now received support from the Centre Party to promote a proposal on child protection in some of the municipalities that have the biggest challenges, because there are some municipalities that have child protection costs that are almost twice that of the other. It's hard to get enough employees, so we have to get them a working day that makes them stay in the job, because it gets too tough. That is why we have a proposal asking the government to look at top government funding for municipal child protection in such municipalities. It can be done in different ways. We have such a system for particularly resource-intensive services. It is precisely because these municipalities are kneeling under these expenses, and the children who are there need at least as good help as children who need the help of child protection in municipalities that are in a much better economic situation than these municipalities. This proposal will be promoted on Monday, and I'm going to say it here, because I think this is one of the basic things that the Storting should support, so that the municipalities that have the biggest challenges in this area have the opportunity to do a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12248	I need to say a few words about another important area in which I feel that we have come a long way in this budget agreement: child protection. As I said in a previous post, children never choose the parents or the family they are born into. Ensuring that children and young people do not live in conditions that can harm both physical and mental health and development, and ensure that they are provided with timely assistance and care is a primary task for a social liberal party and for a liberal society. I note that the budgetary agreement also leads the government's important commitment to child protection skills, for which they have full support from the Left, and the decision to reform child protection, while ensuring the continuation of the schooling rights for children in child protection, the purchase of places in the ideal centres for parents and children and, in addition, the strengthening of municipal child protection. For the Left, it is important in the future to put in place more measures to increase the competence of child protection, and I look forward to the government's efforts to strengthen child protection education and assessment of child protection skills. I'm also glad that we get a multiple to pass on the rights to recruit foster homes. There's a need for more foster homes, while it's hard to recruit and hold those we have. We need a wide and stable supply of new foster homes to make it easier to find a home that suits the individual child. Although it formally falls within the remit of the Labour and Social Committee, I address it here, since the Left does not have a member of that committee. The recruitment of foster homes is largely about financial conditions for foster parents, and it has been very unfortunate that Nav has curtailed the social security benefits for foster parents, so that some have lost their financial resources to take on the job. Therefore, in May this year, Stortinget asked the government to introduce a transitional scheme for foster parents on social security benefits until a new legislation is in place. In this draft state budget, such a scheme was in place for foster parents who receive redundancy benefits or daily allowances, but not for foster parents on disability benefits. I am therefore very pleased that a joint committee in the vote decides that this Decision has only been partially followed up and that the government is informed to follow up the situation of unborn parents quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12267	I take the word again, because it seems to me that there has been a new gift in the Workers' Party, considering that now the cash support is really going to be challenged. I'm not against having a debate about the cash support, but that's the way to talk about this welfare system – it almost seems to me that if you choose to be a little more at home with your child after one year of age, you're almost not part of society anymore. At least nothing is done that is socially useful – as if taking care of one's own children is not socially useful! Of course it is. Then you push integration and equality in front of you. I find it sad to hear words like 'Mother will now return to the kitchen bench'. I actually thought we were done with that. Firstly, it is incredibly gratifying that several fathers choose to make use of the cash support and to be at home with their one-year-olds. It is a development that has gone in a positive direction, so using equality as an important argument to remove a welfare system does not keep water. So to this with integration. I'm going to be honest that the Christian People's Party is not allergic to cash support criticism, if we see that it creates some challenges. In terms of integration: yes, I also think that some of the children who are at home should have gone to kindergarten, and that you should have opened up the labour market so that several of these mothers got in and got work experience. It's just that working life doesn't have open arms and accept them. What I think is amazing is what the Workers' Party did this summer, when the Christian People's Party proposed to link language training to cash support, which would have been a very good measure to help women get into working life. It's the language barriers that may be the most important thing. What did the Workers' Party do? They voted against it. Instead, they voted in favour of a five-year residence requirement in order to receive cash support, but without making any demands on it. So I think it'll be a little hollow when I hear the Workers' Party use both equality and integration as arguments against the cash support. The last thing that matters is the line of work. The working line is the most important. The Christian People's Party wants to combine good equality policies with good family policies. In this area, I believe that the Workers' Party argues and uses substituting arguments, and I think that is a bit of a shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12278	The centre party is also for cash support. It was our proposal that only owed her two-year-olds, but we stand for it. In the option there are some comments about cash support that should be commented on. It says on page 23 that the Workers' Party, SV and Left will rather use the resources to increase the quality of kindergartens, which are important for the entire education cycle, and one in particular indicates that there are many children with low-term mothers, minority-speaking children and children from low-income families who accept cash support, and, furthermore, that the cash support proves to be a poverty trap in which very many women are stuck. In this room, it's going to be rough on how we defend cash support, and we can use the money for taxpayers to pay the women not to be at work. But these women are doing a job. I've probably been home with kids, and it's a lot more busy than sitting here on the Storting, but it's not the same payment. If it's a poverty trap, yes, many of these become even more poor because of not being able to receive cash support. And is it right to set up cash support against using kindergarten? Can a user not say yes to both? It's just about the 1-year-olds. After all, we do not pay attention to sick homes, which is another cash payment. And is it right to refer to kindergarten as part of the educational process? Wasn't the plurality in this room some about when we were dealing with the nursery news, that we were going to take childhood seriously and let kindergartens be kindergartens? So it's funny, I think, that it's good to work for an increase in parental leave at birth, so that parents can be more home with children, but one thing if one lets this happen through cash support. To what the Christian People's Party quite rightly points out in the setting: It says what is meant by cash support, simply to help families have more time to take care of their own children themselves, and that the family is given real freedom of choice when it comes to child care. This is a value in society, so we have to be careful to categorize the women who use it. I demand more respect in this debate, because we have great power, we have power in the form of the words we use. No one asks critical questions that very many send babies at eleven or twelve months in kindergarten, but the parents who leave go, meet criticism from this room, and I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12290	I took the word first and foremost to correct something in the innermost part. 76 S to case No. 4th@item: inlistbox There was an incubation in the recommendation ‘2018’. Instead, of course, it should read ‘2017’ as regards the ageing of the 2017 budget. I expect that it can be corrected. So a few comments to the representative Toppe, who is talking about child protection and a proximity reform: I have noticed that the centre party spends a lot of time on it, too, in the comments, but proximity is an important principle in child protection. The identification of the needs of each child shall be based on a thorough investigation. Proximity is an important principle. This is not the way the Center Party produces it – that you need a whole new thinking around it. So to the representative of Gharahkhani, who calls the Right Party Government an ‘integrative hostile government’: with our government, the number of settlements has increased and the waiting times in the asylum chain have fallen, despite record asylum influx. We are concerned that those who are allowed to stay should be given opportunities to work and to participate in society. There were almost 24 000 participants in the 2016 launch programme — an increase of 34 pst. from the previous year. The Workers' Party's alternative budget is about unresponsive in the field of integration. We've delivered new integration receptions, we're giving more opportunities to get a job, and we're strengthening the introduction program. It should definitely not be contradictory to call our government integration hostile, once we have just taken very important, big steps in a situation with many new asylum seekers and immigrants to Norway. So a few words about this with the cash support: it's okay to disagree with the cash support, but it's very hard to make the cash support into what's responsible for the challenges of both equality and integration in our society. I agree with both the representative Bekkewold and the representative Toppe – cash support for some families is also about freedom of choice, freedom of choice to choose what is right for their family. That's not all that fits into the Workers' Party's A4 thinking. Someone needs a little bit better time. And we're talking about up to the child is two years old. That's not what makes us not achieving equality in Norway, that's not what's the main reason we're struggling with integration challenges. It is simply not enough to blame the cash support for all of that. Otherwise, I just have to be allowed to thank for a good debate in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12303	First to the last article. The introduction system has not been strengthened. It pays out more, and that's because more people become residents. On the other hand, it is cut in Norwegian training on receipt of this government. This is not a good integration policy. A system aimed at some of the immigrant women who are far away from work is called Jobshansen. It has changed the legislation so that the target audience is much smaller than it was before. If you receive social assistance, you will no longer have access to this important measure, which is a low-threshold service and which is out-of-office for those who do not get out of work. There it is that this year we have sent back money that was allocated to this in the budget. The government hasn't even managed to spend the money, and then you're standing here and you're very worried that people don't get to work. Alone caregivers are struggling. There it is, too, that the scheme has been tightened up. Now it's the way that those who take teacher training no longer get it, because they've extended teacher training to a master's degree. Many single-parenters walked on it before – let go of poverty, had something to live on while they were educated, and got a job to live off and care for their child. The government wouldn't. Then you talk about cash support and respect. Yeah, I hear you talk about poor families. They're going to work, they're going to cost what it's going to cost. Take money from them to make them poor, and they'll probably get to work. This is about what we're going to spend money on. I think it must be more appropriate to spend money on helping people to gain skills, so that they get a job and the opportunity to support themselves, and then it's a free choice if you want to be home with your own kids. There's a lot of work, there, and it's an important job, the question is whether it's just right to spend money on it. When the government goes after people who lose their jobs, and takes benefits from those who are most disadvantaged to force them into work, and at the same time you pay healthy people to be at home, it must be allowed to ask that question. It's not forbidden to be at home. It's clear out, I was the sail and didn't get a single penny in cash support. It went well. We did it on our own free will, but the question is now, where in the budgets are we going to spend our money? SV will use them to help the disadvantaged families and children, and ensure that they have the skills, so that they have the opportunity to get a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12316	No more have asked for the word to appear in box 2. Then that part of the debate is over, and we're going over to the 3th framework. The President refers to the debate that has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12323	Culture in Norway is rich and diverse. The culture is the Eidsvoll amateur theatre, which gives children, young people and adults joy – both on stage, behind stage and to us sitting in the hall. The culture is the Bergen Philharmonic Orchestra, which is rethinking and setting up concerts that are transferred to cinemas around the country. The culture is the tourist trails that the Norwegian Tourist Association notes, and the culture is the student at the cultural school who paints his first watercolor with the well-known sunrise-between-to-mountain motif. And the word – newspapers, films and opinions – is also part of the culture in Norway. By the way, of the media releases recently, one would almost think that culture in Norway was a threatened species. It's not. The culture lives and flourishes in small villages and in large cities, and it is in the state budget for 2018 given a strong state basic funding of well over 14 billion. kr, including the Church. Culture is not unaffected by the general development of society. It offers new and exciting opportunities, but can also pose challenging challenges. The policy mix that our government has started to ensure that culture has more economic legs to stand on is important. That doesn't mean that all culture has to change, or that Right cultural policy is a policy for more mammon in culture – even though «Mammon», the Emmy award-winning television series, we are both happy and proud of, all of them. It's actually a little sad that the discussions in the cultural field are quickly influenced by what you might call trench rhetoric. I often wonder that for the Workers' Party more money is the answer, no matter what the question is, within the cultural field. I am even more surprised after I quickly foamed the cultural investigation from 2014. The pay and living conditions of the artists were not improved by the former red-green, cultural promises, and neither did the art production or public interest increase, despite increased appropriations. This shows us so clearly that cultural life has to get more legs to stand on. That is why the political course has been changed. For the Right, it is important to contribute to making the living of artistic work easier. One must almost belong on the left side of Norwegian policy in order not to think that it sounds like a better way to go. It's not like we're not strengthening the artistic economy either. In the Right we are pleased that, through the close cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, we have in recent years raised the artists' tips by 22.8 million. NOK, and that it is now granted in total close proximity to SEK 190 million. kr for artists' scholarships. We are also pleased that we together with the Left and Christian People's Party ask the government to start work on a new artist's message. Here one will be able to see tools and framework conditions for the artistic policy as a whole. There has now been a debate on nomination practices in the grant committees, although the changes that the government is now implementing have been discussed, investigated and proposed for almost 15 years. When this debate now hopefully stops and the artists see that there are still artists in the committees and that peer reviews are to be carried out, we hope that the field of artists will see positive results in the coming of an artist's message. For the first time in 20 years, the artist’s conditions in Norway are to be thoroughly and holistically seen, and the hope is that this communication will address the challenges associated with the working and living conditions of artists in Norway. Our government's strong commitment to creative industries and new instruments to improve artistic earnings – where the unique talent initiative through Talent Norway, the film incentive scheme, the gift strengthening scheme, the establishment of Artica Svalbard and the great Norwegian initiative towards the Frankfurt Book Fair and the Berlin Film Festival, both in 2019, have the common feature of raising Norwegian art and cultural production, building alliances with private people and increasing the total funding of art and culture – giving culture more opportunities to stand on. It strengthens cultural life. Cultural policy must be slightly more than the size of public budgets. But at the same time, we are pleased to state that the appropriations for sport, culture and volunteering have never been higher than in the government's 2018 proposal. The right-wing Party government, together with the cooperation parties, shows in the budget that we are committed to securing the cultural base wall. Finally, a few words about the Norwegian Church and the field of faith and life: it is a new field for our committee, but an exciting field to work with in the years to come. Faith and life-seeking dialogue is an important part of our multicultural society. Knowledge of our different religions, traditions and cultures is important to counteract conflicts and create trust and trust between us living in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12346	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12351	This harvest and this budget have been marked by one thing, and it is cut, cut, cut. The government dusted the budget for money to finance tax cuts. Volunteering, legal aid and anti-fraud measures were severely cut — yes, some were totally down to zero. One of those who were cut completely was the phone paper for the blind – without prior dialogue, without notice. 800 users suddenly stood without an offer to call to read today's newspaper. It also turned out that this platform serves what is called the medicine phone for the blind, which is a phone blind can call to get the package leaflet for medicine and get health information about medicines they take. Does the representative from the Right think that the government, by leaving blind and feeble people completely without the possibility of having social contacts, has a good budget priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12360	It is understandable that it is demanding when offers are cut or appropriations are reduced. But it's like there's been a great technological development in this area that gives blind and partially blind people other opportunities to stay up-to-date and orientation in the news picture. Several newspapers and radio channels produce their own podcasts of news and topicality, so it's quite possible to think that in this area too, fortunately, we can use technology to help the blind and visually even better than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12365	The representative showed in his intervention the good cooperation that the government has had with the Left and Christian People's Party in connection with the pay reform for the artists. It was a three-year reform. 2018 is the last year. There have been good developments in the last two years, and when the government budget is presented, there is nothing. The question then is: is it that cooperation is really just about throwing out a meat leg to get the Christian People's Party to save that kind of arrangement, or does the representative think it was stupid that a three-year budget had not been provided initially, including for the wage reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12372	It's like our parties have very open discussions about the budgets, while the previous, red-green, government took all these discussions in a closed room, where no one heard what was prioritised by anyone. Now there is a fairly open and democratic process around budgets here in the Storting. But it is not just this wage reform that is important for the artistic economy. Our government has added 53 million. kr to the artistic economy in the years from 2014 to 2017. There are also many other important factors in the budget that contribute to raising the economic situation of artists. And when four parties are going to cooperate, as we do, the parties have different fields of action. For the Christian People's Party and the Left, it has been important to get through this in the conciliation, and it is good that they have received. So, this whole reform is now complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12379	One of the most important cultural institutions now living with the knife on the throat is Defence Music. Over 20 pst. of all professional positions in percussion and blistering in Norway are in these corps. They contribute to cultural services in places where it would not have been otherwise, and they are important for, among other things, the cultural school. Nevertheless, an economic review shows that the defense’s music with the government’s proposals would be underfunded by $24.5 million. kr by maintaining the structure and annual work of the day. It's dramatic. The corps have already had to suspend most of the productions and have ‘freeze’ new jobs. The representative of the Right agrees that we should have and further develop the defence music with today's structure and annual work, as the Stortinget adopted in its long-term defence sector plan, and in that case, how does the representative feel that these troops should do so, by 24 million. Is it too small?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12386	In connection with the long-term plan for the defense, there was an agreement to continue working for the music, i.e. for the defense corps. It may not look at the same world as we do, but it's going to be a much tighter economic situation in the years to come. That's why probably a lot of actors are going to experience that you're going to be able to have some restraints, just because we have to use the economic space wisely. But it is not said that the music of the defense is not important. It is, and I hope they have the basis to play as much good music in 2018 as they have had in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12392	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12397	We are now dealing with the fourth pure Right-Fremskritsparte budget. For the cultural sector, the recent years of this government have involved a reduction in ambitions, more unclear targets and cuts and stamina. The representative Wilhelmsen Trøen said in his main post that this government is betting on the artists' living conditions. You know what -- it actually testifies to a government and a right and a progress party that doesn't listen, and that really doesn't know the everyday life of cultural life, because they don't see it that way, on the contrary. And all the Right Party talk about people having more legs to stand on all the time is just new talk to be able to legitimize cut. On the contrary, among artists and cultural workers, there has never been greater rebellion and opposition to this government's cultural policy than at present. I understand them. Not only do we experience that most budget entries and cultural actors get real cut when the appropriations given do not compensate for price and wage growth – the government's so-called efficiency reform, which means cut, comes to the top. That the institutions, the theatres, the orchestras, the opera, etc. perhaps have to cut, perhaps have to employ fewer fixed people, set up fewer performances, touring less, it is well possible that the Right Party and the Advance Party seem to be less bureaucracy and more efficient, but in the eyes of most others it is simply less culture, less art, fewer experiences for people and worse conditions for just the artists. It means something if the theater can afford to set up Peer Gynt with full role crew, or if the same person has to play Peer and Mother Åse at the same time. The state budget has grown by over 200 billion. kr since this government took over. Most areas get more, but the cultural budget gets less. The working party has more ambitious objectives for Culture-Norway – from voluntary cultural life, with little kids who barely manage to keep their instruments right, to the highly professional, who deliver the highest quality, and what we find between them. We presented the new cultural promise in August, in the campaign. That's the fourth in the sequence. We made two cultural promises and presented a third in the year we unfortunately lost the government power. We were not finished with our cultural effort when the Right Party and the Advance Party unfortunately took over the government power. The Enger Committee, as the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen took up his post, was the one we put down, because we wanted to get answers to what would be right, and what we had to do more when it was our cultural effort. We were going to follow it up. The Enger Committee pointed out a lot of important areas that need strengthening, and that's what we were about to do. But what is the Right and Advance Party, today's government, doing with the Enger Committee when it points out again and again that the pointed thing is missing? They don't do anything to follow it up. The culturallift 4 is just a follow-up to it. So let's keep going where we left off. We have clearer objectives for culture, we have a concrete plan for how we're going to achieve them, and we're going to use 1 pst again. of the State budget in order to achieve our objectives. With this budget we are on our way – we are on our way there. We know that there is too much difference between people's cultural practices, based on who they are, parents' wallet, where they live. It is undemocratic. We're going to build down such thresholds. We miss too much if no more are introduced to art and culture early. Therefore, the cultural school bag, the cultural walking stick, the cultural nesting package, the national Youth Culture Card, the libraries or the occasional free entrance of the museums are extremely important. Here the government goes in the wrong direction – they build thresholds where we want to build them down. For us, it is a clear priority to continue to strengthen the cultural core wall and the universal arrangements, which provide more access to art and culture, so that more people can experience what they might not know they would have – experiences that open up a new world, create commitment and good memories. We also focus on the professional, on the institutions that offer world-class culture, that market Norway outside, and that attract the audience here. We're going to spend $600 million. kr more than this government for cultural purposes. Another important pillar of our initiative is the artistic economy. There are too many artists who experience insecurity in their working life, who have a loose, temporary link to the working life, who are underpaid, and who stretch the knit in addition to what the law permits. A lot of artists work undercover, we can't accept anyone else. That is why the artistic economy is important. We want to strengthen the established arrangements, the scholarships, create new arrangements, as we did with the artist assistance system, which gives both established and new artists experience. We're spending over 70 million dollars. kr more than the government directly to the artistic economy. And it's like strengthening cultural life else, institutions, is also an artistic economy. There will be more jobs and opportunities for artists and cultural workers. We see that this government in this year's budget also shifts more budget lines away from the government budget and over to the funds. The gift-enhancing scheme they're doing this this year. It is problematic that the surplus of people’s drugs should go to a system that is so undemocratic and serves those who already have the most income. In addition, we see the usual rough cuts presented by the government, as for example. cut off in the press support, as the Left and Christian People's Party each year has to negotiate again in place. In particular, it is a priority to cut the Norwegian press, while everyone other than the government is now concerned about the deterioration of the status of journalism. Those who have gradually been used to being disappointed by the submitted cultural budget know that there is another round, because one has to negotiate with the Left and Christian People's Party. And budget negotiations and conciliation tend to bring money with them to some more projects on the cultural budget, such as: The press support, because the Left and Christian People's Party does not accept it. The surprise, therefore, was great when a large cut of 20 million was made in the agreement. SEK to Norwegian film – 16 million. SEK of them for the Film Fund. We had just dealt with a film message in Stortinget, where a majority said that we should strengthen and not weaken Norwegian film. This is an industry that is in the downwind and at home, and one would think that the government would strengthen, support up and join in this, not tighten the legs of an industry of growth. So a budget that was already staggering, which meant one feature film less than the 'King's no', got worse with the agreement. It's not a nice film industry that's disappointed. Another group that is rightly disappointed is the country's artists, who once again feel overwhelmed by the government and not listened to – who are deprived of power and authority when the government overrun them and change the appointment of the grant committees. The state council's loose claims that there's been undemocratic practices and hints about camaraderie are serious, and there's once again going to be an impression of something that's not real. The Labour Party is voting against that change, and we have a message for culture: we need a new course. We need a new government that listens, that takes artists and cultural life on board, that cooperates, and that, not least, wants and abilities to prioritise culture even when it comes to the budgetary conferences. The Labour Party is ready to take that job when we get the opportunity, and we show a little bit of our direction in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12435	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12440	– 20 years ago, there was a dream of getting guarantee income for all professional artists. It is not possible with as many newly educated artists as we have today. This was what culture minister Kleveland said about his artist's message 20 years ago, and after that, the number of artists has doubled. But the Workers' Party has obviously not given up this 40-year-old dream, even though the rhetoric is not quite in the style of an addition of less than 0.7 pst. on the artistic economy chapter. I wonder whether it is the economically responsible policy or the honesty towards the artists that has been most disturbing to the Workers' Party since that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12447	I thank you for the question. The representative may not have come to realize that the Artist Network, which organises the 19 different groups of artists in Norway, is very pleased with the Workers' Party's alternative budget. It is not that all artists should receive state grants — not at all. But when we have actually chosen to stick with state scholarships, because we believe that artists are an important group, we must at least make it possible to live on those scholarships. And that's what our reform is about: we have to adjust the scholarships so that it's possible to live on them, and then we'll create some new ones. We have also called for new creative arrangements, such as the Kunstnerassistent scheme, of which we get too little money very much out of, and where both established artists and new artists together can gain profit. The Right and Advance Party are the only parties that have fought against the artistic wage reform that we in the opposition – and fortunately together with the Christian People's Party and the Left – have now forced for the third consecutive year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12460	I think that the Labour Party representatives are doing their utmost to continue where Helga Pedersen really started four years ago, that it is important to talk it – then – the new government down. When the Workers' Party takes the floor in the cultural debate, the message is basically the same all the way. It's the government that does too little, too late and too bad, and absolutely none of the government parties' representatives get a say in anything. At least that's how it feels to listen to what comes from the Workers' Party in this case. So my question to the representative of Trettebergstuen is: can it be that the Right Party government in the cultural field has actually done anything right in four years' position, something that deserves never so little recognition, such as in the name of roughness in this sweet advent and pre-Christmas time?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12467	It's not meant to be a little bit out of principle, but in the case of the cultural budget, unfortunately, it's not very much to boast about. As I said in my main post, the government budget has increased by 200 billion. kr since this government took over. The cultural budget stands still, and that means that most people get real cut. There will also be fewer cultural experiences for people and fewer opportunities for living for artists. But the strangest thing, I think, is that the government's cultural policy lacks a red thread. It's absolutely impossible to see that this government has a cultural policy project other than cutting and tearing on the groups you should be working for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12474	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12479	Culture is a comprehensive expression and concept. Culture creates feelings – it creates joy, and it creates irritation. And it creates not least debate. That's good, because culture gives us challenges related to values, attitudes, rules, habits and traditions. Culture actually gives light in everyday life. Art unites and separates. What's good art for one is not necessarily that for another. That's why the art debates are often complicated, because no one can be said to sit with the fasitizer at what's good and what's bad art. It is individual, it is open to interpretation and room for personal freedom – it is according to the heart of the Advance Party. The biggest discussions after the government has submitted its budget are often about the penny. But they're important to many. So it's always hard to cut – it hits someone. The government's cultural budget is 14 billion. kr. Let's apply approx. 4 B.C.E. kr in annual tokens, Kultur-Norge has small fainting 18 bn. kr. The budget has been increased by 300 million. kr from last year, an increase of 2,2 pst. All other countries envy us such a generous cultural budget. Nevertheless, the media have the impression that the culture is being starved. With respect to reporting, that's not right. Even within the cultural field, you have to change, save and drive smarter. In every field we talk about sustainability. But it's an expression it's not popular to go into the cultural debate. It is also not good Latin to remember that the Enger Committee of the Cultural Investigation in 2014 pointed out that several artists have to operate commercially. This is precisely why the government has taken structural measures to strengthen the sustainability of the sector and to allow for more creative activities, including: related to Creative Norway. We all live and work in the cultural image every day. It's just quickly done not to think about it. The Progress Party is concerned with a rich cultural life, but underlines the need for continuous action to ensure that the cultural field has more legs to stand on. So even though the appropriations for sport, culture and volunteering have never been higher than today, we will continue to stimulate the main growth to come from below. Sport and the NRK are inextricably linked to, whether it's Norwegian triumphs in the ski trail or quality journalism from the White House of Marienlyst. While everyone rejoices over Norwegian sports heroes who triumph, several are perhaps a bit more waiting with the cheers of the National Broadcaster. So let me just briefly mention a few things: With this government, the appropriations are increasing to the latitude, where tomorrow's heroes are being created. Similarly, the appropriations for the Central Administration of the Sports Association are cut. Let me ignore the luxury dinners of sports stops in silence, but say that sport must also contribute to rationalising, streamlining and future-oriented administrative units with the aim of reducing its own bureaucracy. When we enjoy the triumphs of practitioners dressed in red, white and blue – and know the pride when the Norwegian flag is lifted and the national anthem is played – the NRK may not be cheered in the same way. Nevertheless: I like to boast of the NRK, because they make a lot of content of high quality. But also a mastodont such as the NRK must prepare for the future, and it is therefore gratifying that they are covered by the 0.7 p.m. requirement in connection with the ABE reform. The rice we have behind the mirror is cut off in the license if they can't do it, even though the broadcaster has pointed out to me that they have already saved this and more. The question of future funding of the NRK will be discussed in depth. What remains to be seen is whether the NRK should operate with everything they do today – such as: 14 national radio channels, 15 radio district broadcasts, 11 television district broadcasts, regional network provision, the Broadcasting Orchestra and self-production of children’s television and Norwegian drama — just to mention a small sample of the time and resources spent by the NRK. Finally, art and culture are for all of us. We have different ways of approximating it, we have different ways of consuming it, and actually we also have different thoughts about how we're going to finance and develop the field. The most important thing is that the idea is free, it must also be art, culture and sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12509	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12514	We're a proud sports nation, and then we're going to take care of our sports heroes. For many, the transition from an end to a sports career can be quite demanding. That's why we've had something called executive funds, an economic saving that gives the practitioners a new opportunity when they're retrained. But in it there has been no discrimination: if you are a single practitioner, you get to participate in the exercise fund, but as part of a fight like football or handball, you have not had the opportunity to do so. The Labour Party today has a proposal that this should now be treated in a non-discriminatory manner, for it is discriminatory, and it is important that we take care of both the individual practitioners and those who are part of the law. Will the Progress Party support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12522	It's a difficult question to answer right over the table. What I'd like to say is that a lot of practitioners who've been working with coats, for example. in football, doing so well that after their career they have much more to fall back on than some others. There are many who practice marginal sports that are not allowed to take part in the big winning bonuses that are being awarded, when they do not fully reach the result lists. But basically, I'm in order for us to give people a solid platform to stand on even when your career is over, because you see that being a sportsman can get a rough end. It may be that your career ends because of an injury or, of course, that you have to report your career at a relatively young age.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12527	The party program of the Progress Party says that cultural memories are very important, and that the state has to bear a much larger share of the cost to our cultural memories. We have had some national cultural memory protection targets to be achieved by 2020, which are now completely impossible to achieve, because this area has not been followed up by the government. Then I wonder, to the representative Wold, as part of the cultural committee and responsible for cultural memories: how busy is the Progress Party of cultural memories?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12534	The Progress Party is very concerned that we should take care of what is good Norwegian culture and tradition. We're concerned with our history, the Norwegian value base and what this society is built and founded on over centuries, not to say millennia. It is also implicit, of course, that we must take care of what is our national cultural heritage. But – as in all other areas: making the budget go up for more time requires priority. Therefore, not all priorities can be achieved at all times. We are concerned that, of course, care must be taken of, for example. what we have of old church buildings, national shrines and national taxes. The Norwegian cultural heritage is very important for the Progress Party, so we're a supporter there, even though we can't deliver all the crowns that we would like to do at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12541	I thought I'd give the representatives of the Progress Party the opportunity to talk a little bit more about something they don't like to talk so much about, the traditional cultural part of the cultural budget. The principle programme of the Progress Party states: ‘Cultural life works best without political governance and control. Therefore, the FrP will ensure that cultural development is as independent as possible from public funding and intervention.’» My question to the representative of the Progress Party is whether he is satisfied with the real decline in the cultural sector in the last civil budgets, or whether the Progress Party would prefer to cut public funding even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12551	Now, the cultural budget has increased steadily under this government, and it has increased dramatically in a few years. When we point out that we believe that culture should be as self-sufficient as possible, it is because we have as fundamental an belief that local activity, local cultural activity, has in itself creativity, innovation and the will to succeed, but that in some cases they obviously need a push in the back and public assistance to get started. However, it must be an objective to cope in the course of the process, if not to become self-employed, so at least to make less dependent on both municipal, county and state subsidies in order to pursue culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12558	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12563	Culture is a big concept. It defines us, it shapes us and creates cohesion. Yes, without culture, our lives become quite empty. The art, the museums, the media diversity, the volunteering, the religious communities and the literature are all the arenas for public exchange and formation, and they show the way for the future we want to create. The market alone cannot provide a varied flora of cultural institutions. The cultural policy pursued after the Second World War confirms political agreement that the public should and must support a diverse cultural sector. The central party wants to pursue this policy. We want the public to pursue an active cultural policy that contributes to the flourishing of cultural diversity. Culture is the cornerstone of local communities around the country, and a diversity of cultural activities and expressions must be facilitated. We have to work for the whole population to participate in and experience the art and culture life. In our 2018 alternative budget, we ensure that municipalities get a lot more to route to culture as well. In addition, we have a strong commitment to a number of other cultural services. We strengthen, among other things: funding schemes for musicians, musical ensembles, the Music Equipment Scheme, festivals, theatres, dance, visual arts, free performing arts, language organisations and reading activities, to mention something. So over to volunteering, which we in the Center Party believe is glued to our society. Voluntary organisations produce experiences, meeting places and social activities across social divisions, and voluntary organisations make significant financial contributions to society through service production and extensive unpaid efforts. We want a better operational basis for volunteering to be ensured. Voluntary teams and organisations need predictability and a good financial framework. It shall include, inter alia: not be such as to make money in the work of non-governmental organisations, therefore the VAT compensation scheme is an important tool, so that VAT expenditure can be reimbursed, and that organisations can instead focus on strengthening their own activities. The number of voluntary teams and organisations receiving VAT compensation has increased steadily, but it also has a curtailment. This means, in reality, that organisations do not receive full coverage for their costs related to the purchase of goods and services. The centre party considers that there is a need to further strengthen the scheme and proposes an increase of 150 million in its alternative budget. kr in addition to the government laid on the table. Now the Left and Christian People's Party will have a reward for negotiating an increase of 75 million. kr in the reimbursement scheme, but they should have doubled that sum. The Left and Christian People's Party will otherwise have a reputation for ensuring many other good purposes and actions with money in the conciliation, in line with our priorities, such as the Cultural Fund, the artists' tips and the language organisations. I am also pleased that the cut in the press support was averted in the budget agreement. The centre party also proposed the reversal of this cut. Both as a politician and as a journalist, I know how important the media diversity is. It is a fundamental democratic value that readers have access to different views and opinions in the newspaper landscape. Norwegian newspapers today experience a major upheaval on many fronts, and it demands new solutions. Media Norway needs time to change, and we need to organize it. Claiming that cutting press support automatically will lead to innovation and innovation is unrealistic. There's another budget area we in the Central Party are burning for, where I would like the conciliation to have ended up with a much greater strengthening, namely the cultural memory field. It must be better managed and disseminated there. The centre party has ambitious goals for our cultural memories, because we believe it has very high social value and is worth investing in. In our 2018 alternative budget, we therefore propose an overall increase of 130 million. kr for cultural memory protection. It is local most of the culture takes place, but unfortunately culture becomes a balancing point in the municipal budgets. By investing as much as we in the Center Party do, by increasing the municipal frames by 2.5 billion. kr and also give the county 1,5 billion. kr extra, we know that we provide a good basis for increased cultural activity across the whole country. I am proud of that – in the same way that I am proud that the Central Party has a great heart and willingness to actually give priority to culture, volunteering and cultural heritage. The goal of this ageing period is for me to work for increased status in these areas – not only in the municipalities and the counties, but also in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12586	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12591	The cultural heritage we have today is important to take care of. We see that the center part is particularly concerned about. They have e.g. asked the government to provide cultural heritage and craft tradition with a clearer place in the mandate of Creative Norway. At the same time, the Centre Party proposes to cut support for cultural and creative nutrition by 12 million. kr. I understand the representative correctly – that the demand for Norwegian traditional products is so high that 12 million can be saved. kr by integrating them into Creative Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12596	Funny question! Of course, it's not about such a small field compensating for the cut we do in creative nutrition. This is about the fact that the Central Party is not particularly pleased with the turn of cultural policy of the government. The fact that we're going to spend a lot of money on feeding, versus giving priority to money in other areas of culture, we're a little busy signaling in our budget. That doesn't mean that in a creative industry mandate you can't include something that will be very smart to take in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12601	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12607	It is art and cultural life that create an «us». It makes the art and culture get a value in itself, which we can't put a price tag on. In addition, art and cultural life are something that builds bridges between us, challenges us, and conveys ideas. Free art is like free speech in a democracy: without it, society stops. Although we can't set a price tag on culture, we have to appreciate culture. These include: to support under the external cultural life through good public funding. Why is strong public funding for the arts and culture really so important? Can't the market just control this alone? Strong public funding is important because it ensures diversity and breadth. It makes sure that people can drive small and evolve, before they are discovered and can grow big eventually. It ensures that cultural life can be present in several places and for more people, regardless of their economy. If we cut public funding for cultural life, we will be left poorer. The breadth and diversity will be weakened, and we will only be left with what is profitable in a diet-benefit analysis in a market diagram. Only the commercial success will be left. Gradually, there will also be fewer of them, because there is no grassroots anymore to develop these talents from. Not least, we are left with a more unsocial cultural offer, because good public funding of cultural life also gives those of us who have the least, the opportunity to go to concerts or at the museum. It is therefore worrying that the government is going through four state budgets to cut and starvate cultural life. If we set up all the civil budgets of the last few years, there is a clear real decline in cultural life – including in 2018. It's a shame that after several years of red-green cultural vows, the government chooses to cancel this promise. SV will go in the opposite direction. We prioritise increased resources for cultural life because we want a cultural life for the many, not just for the few. We suggest using 1 billion. kr more for cultural purposes than the government in our alternative budget. The goal is to 1 pst. of the state budget to go to culture again, and with our arrangement we are halfway there only in one budget. It gives us room not only to reverse the government's starvation and cuts, but also to build culture on. We are strengthening the cultural base wall, the Cultural Fund, by 90 million. kr more than the government. It will allow the free field of art to flourish – with new projects, to delight the whole country. For example, it involves: to increase festival support by 15 million. kr and the organiser’s aid of 15 million. kr, because a good cultural policy is about groups of outdoor theatres as well as festivals and concerts/clubs. We're strengthening the national and regional institutions with a total of 52 million. kr. Today, institutions do not even receive price and salary increases. It stops the artistic development. With our proposal, the institutions will be able to continue their efforts. In addition, we propose a total of 84 million. kr to a number of other institutions around the country. The result will be a massive upgrading of music and stage art, to the delight of the audience throughout the country – after many years of saving. To appreciate the art and culture, we must also appreciate the artists. Unfortunately, it is not quite like this today. Artists and cultural workers have slowed down in wage developments. In fact, many live below the poverty line. SV knows that poverty does not create rich art. SV knows that artists must not starve to create a new work, such as “Hungry”. On the contrary, we must strengthen the artistic economy in order to defend a free and independent art that is not just left to market forces. Therefore SV proposes to raise the artist economy by 60 million. In addition to the government’s proposals – in increased scholarships, several scholarships, increased fees and remuneration, among others. It's to appreciate the art. Together with increased funding for the institutions, it will improve the working life of cultural workers. Finally, I would like to stress again how important it is to make art and cultural life accessible to everyone, regardless of the wallet. We provide that through our strengthening of the cultural budget in general. And we're doing it especially through a national raise for the 200 million libraries. kr, because the libraries just give everyone equal access to culture. It's all about creating a cultural life for the many, not just for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12624	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12629	The gift-enhancing scheme motivates museums and others around the country to think again about how to raise money for their dream projects, and that associations and different collection actions are motivated to do. SV boasts that they'd like to spend a billion dollars. kr more than the government in the cultural field, and they spread the money across for a variety of purposes. These additional funds shall be recovered through increased taxes and the purpose is determined by the cultural expertise of the SV cluster. At the same time, SV disagrees with the gift enhancement scheme so much that they do not want to encourage 350 million. extra for cultural purposes. I would like to ask the representative if the SV depositor knows more about where the shoe prints than the associations of friends and foundations out there in the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12636	Thank you for an interesting question. This gift-enhancing system is very interesting, because the feedback we get from the cultural field is just that the gift-enhancing is good for the big institutions, those that are already commercial successes, while it does not help the smaller actors, the free groups, all those who are involved in culture on a voluntary basis, etc. We have not proposed in our alternative budget proposal to remove the gift-enhancing mechanism, but it is true that these budgets do not have to look for new areas to cut, to say the least, so we have left it alone. But what we want to underline is that you need to bet on the cultural base wall, bet on the grassroots, what happens down there, if you're going to have the commercial successes on top. That's why we've chosen to prioritize 1 billion. kr extra, and we have the brother of it to the precisely Cultural Fund, which is the expertise that distributes, not the big group of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12641	SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have written in a note in the budget statement that they will liquidate the gift-enhancing scheme – for information. So I would like to ask the representative: is e.g. Trysil history and museum battles or Domkirkeodden's friends the rich uncles, the big strong muscles that don't contribute culture to the people out there, which also means something in SV's cultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12646	Examples of how the gift-enhancing scheme also contributes positively to some local measures around us can be mentioned, and we are very pleased about that in SV. However, one cannot ignore the clear message received from the cultural sector around, that this scheme does not save their situation. On the contrary, it essentially gives more to those who already get the most over the budgets. As I said, we have not included in our alternative budget proposals to remove it. We are critical of it, and we were critical when it was established, because we believe it is a turnaround in cultural policy that is unfortunate, and you do not give priority to those who need it the most, but you give more to those who have the most from before. Then I can add as a final remark that this is another system that was moved over to the tipping devices, which makes it more unpredictable, and you probably get a good purpose to fund through the tipping devices, which makes it more difficult for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12653	I think it's a little sad that we're taking it down to the level that you've done in this room when it comes to investing in culture. I would like to challenge the representative to give me an example of one country that uses more public dollars than Norway per citizen of culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12658	No, I don't think I can get to a country here I'm now standing, I can't. But then I also believe that it should be obvious that one of the world's richest countries prioritises art and culture. We also have tradition through an active cultural policy since World War II to do it this way. Therefore, it is so important to defend the strong public funding of cultural life in Norway. What I think is sad about this debate is that the representatives of the government parties are so offended that we put our finger on the issues and challenges facing us by the cultural sector. If it's not our job to listen to the problems they're coming with, then I don't know who's going to do it, because it's obviously not the government's task.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12663	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12668	It was tempting to start the article by answering the last question and saying that perhaps an important reason why we are the richest country in the world is that we have so consciously invested in culture – but I won't. In the view of the Left, the cultural budget, which today has several figures, has been a good budget. It's good for the artists, it's good for the free performing arts field, it's good for volunteering, it's good for the media and the free press, it's good for the nostrils, it's good for minority culture, and it's good for cultural protection. I dare say that it will also be good for film and TV production, even if we have to follow up with some grips in the next round to get everything in order. The starting point for the Left is that all culture is opinion, and as a social-liberal party, we cannot stress strongly enough the importance of a strong and well-functioning cultural and civil society life – not just for recreation, reflection and human and social growth, but for democracy and a robust social building. An open and liberal society facilitates all forms of expression – an important commitment to the functioning of democratic societies. Art and culture are an important basis for human development. Theatres, museums, libraries and other art and cultural institutions are arenas for creation and public exchanges of views. Voluntary organisations and civil society can have a strong societal change force. Media is a common venue for free information, social criticism and debate. Neither shall be an instrument for the state, but shall live in power by itself and challenge and develop society independently of political goals. An offensive cultural policy is linked to the protection of freedom of expression, and in an open, liberal society, therefore, a large cultural sector is an objective in itself. The left is particularly pleased that in this budget agreement we have the assured completion of wage reforms for artists' scholarships, which we started in the budget for 2016 and lifted further last year. Artists' previews were the field of the state cultural budget that had stagnated growth throughout the red-green period of government, and scholarships had for a long time a real decline – before the Left and Christian People's Party lifted this area in budgetary negotiations. Now the permissions have come up on such a level that the artist grant corresponds to 50 pst. of the average full-time annual income, and I am pleased that we agree with the Government Party that the schedules should be amended so that this can also benefit the long-term scholarships. The left is also pleased that we got a strengthening of another important arena of freedom of speech – the free performing arts. In the last few years, the Left has both a doctor and a bid to realize solid scenes and local for important institutions, such as the Black Box in Oslo and Avant Garden in Trondheim, and we are pleased that the government has offered to rebuild the Central Bath in Bergen to a new stage-art house that will come, among other things. Carte Blanche and the BIT Theatre garage for the benefit. Now it's important to fill these scenes with more content, and it's going to be a priority job in the future. The fact that we were last asked in the fall also got several figures to secure future to Stella Polaris in Vestfold and Studium Actoris in Østfold, I am proud of. The left looks forward to the government's assessment of how these groups of different ensembles on the free stage arts field can get more conservative relationships. At the end of a few words about film and TV production: I'm going to admit that I'd rather have seen that we found a different way to cover the budget agreement than a reduction to the Film Fund. On behalf of the Left, I have said that it will be our priority to rectify the next round, i.e. in the revised budget in May. However, it should not be obscured that today we are adopting something that could have a major impact on the manufacturing industry, simply asking the government to step up its efforts to transform the incentive scheme for film and television production into a regulated system, which would make Norway much more attractive as a film nation. Such a model would provide far more conservative conditions for manufacturers and would be important for the Norwegian production environment and not least travel life by enabling giant productions. For example, we now know that the men's drama series of a new Rings is on the stairs, which is just created for Norwegian nature and perhaps for some particular Western nature – then a little further north and a little further into the county than the president usually does – and we should really know our visit time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12687	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12693	The representative Breivik is a very reasonable guy, and I have now given up the Right and Advance Party when it's going to take action to maintain the amazing media and content diversity we have in Norway. 1 000 journalists have disappeared in a short time, the media houses have lost 3 billion. kr in advertising revenue due to Facebook and Google, and there is an urgent need to take action. This reality description shares the left with the Working Party. The left has also been responsible for the same policy as the Working Party in the media policy. I am therefore very surprised that the Left does not support the Workers' Party's proposal that the Government examine all aspects of the Media Diversity Committee's proposal and that they do not support the Workers' Party's obligating plan that the government should introduce zero VAT for trade press in the revised budget in May. Has Left changed course?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12698	The left hand side is essentially the starting point of the question. It is clear that the media industry is in a crisis of economics that perhaps surpasses many of the crises that even other industries, such as the oil industry, have experienced, and what may be even more alarming when we know that the media industry is in such a crisis, is that this is one of the pillars of democracy. The left is also entirely in agreement with the Labour Party that we are forced to follow up the report to the Media Disaster Selection and take it seriously, and I am very pleased that some of the things that are agreed today are just sending a concrete order to the government where the government has to come back in revision with a distribution and a decision base that allows the Storting to take a real position on expanding the zero tax on journalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12703	I thank you for your answer. It is quite right, as the representative Breivik says, media pluralism is an important part of our fantastic democracy, and we must maintain that. It is true that the Stortinget has previously decided to investigate zero VAT, but unfortunately we have had a Minister of Culture who has put that investigation in a drawer. Will the Left now guarantee that this investigation will take place? When that investigation is ready, it will also be possible to introduce zero VAT in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12708	I can guarantee that, of course, the Left will vote for the proposal that is on the table today, that the government will now be required to come back in the revised, not only with a distribution and an assessment, but actually with a decision-making basis that will enable the Storting itself to make the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12713	We were many who were surprised when the budgetary agreement that the Left and Christian People's Party has concluded with the government parties came. In general, budgetary settlements for the cultural budget mean some small amounts of money for good purposes around the counties. The surprise was therefore great when we got a cut of 20 million. NOK 16 million for Norwegian film and television drama production. kr i cutt til Filmfondet. The film industry is raging, because this comes to the top of a boisterous cultural budget, which already made the industry have to lower ambitions for next year. When the budget agreement came, and the reactions from the film industry – there was a demonstration outside the Size – the representatives from the Left said, not necessarily the representative standing here in the Chamber now, but the representatives of the Left Party, that this was a work accident. Why has the Left not corrected this unemployment in the new era, as they had had the opportunity to do after the budgetary conciliation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12718	First, I want to clarify a misconception that's seen itself. This reduction of 4 million in this European programme which is a part of film is not a cut, it is only an adjustment with which the government returned in budgetary negotiations. They said they were $51 million. kr, which is now left on the scheme, is enough to pay the quota for 2018, understood that if there are changes in exchange rates, dollars in relation to the euro, etc., it will be adjusted. So there's nothing cut. Then I am quite honest that I would have liked later to have protested much more strongly against a discovery proposal that went beyond the Film Fund. But at the same time, we can do what we can to promise that this will be our priority at the top of the list in the cultural field already in the discussion of the revised budget in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12723	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12728	The public must ensure that cultural life has good conditions. We need an active and offensive cultural policy. I am pleased that the budgetary agreement between the cooperation parties the Christian People's Party and the Left and the government parties provides improvements for the cultural and media sectors and in areas that have been important for the Christian People's Party. Let me first say something about media policy. Again, we experienced a government like cutters in the media support, or the production support. They have proposed that every year, and I get no other explanation as to why this is so important to the government, than that it says in the Health Declaration. Now I really hope that we will soon get a new government in place and a new government statement, so that this sentence in the Health Declaration can be taken out and gone once and for all. In the current situation of the media, media support is not cut to what is right medicine, rather to the contrary. Another thing the government suggested when it came to this cut was that it should not hit the smallest newspapers, it should only hit the number two newspapers and the meaningful newspapers. So before we have the opportunity to discuss the media diversity report, we take such a structural approach as that. That would mean that 14 editorials might have had to take this all by themselves. I think it is quite good to discuss the device regarding the production support, or the media support. I would like to discuss it, but can we not do it in the context in which it belongs, namely when the government comes to the Stortinget with a message based on the recommendations of the media diversity institute? I look forward to a new and broad media debate when it comes. Otherwise, the artist economy has also been important for the Christian People's Party, and I am very happy that this year we have also been able to increase the artists' points. With a little bit of a trick to the next year, we are there where the representative Breivik thinks we are already, namely that we have managed to implement the entire wage reform, where the scholarships are 50 pst. of what is an average income. A little trick – we're there, and then I think we've done something that's been very important to our artists and to our artistic policy. Then I am also very happy that we have now received an insight into getting an artist's message to Stortinget. It's been 20 years since the last time we dealt with such a message, and I look forward very much to being able to deal with the artist policy in its full breadth through such a message. Appointment of artistic committees, etc. of course, it will be possible to mention in that message. I'm also very happy that we were able to strengthen the acting and dancing alliance. It's a fantastic system, an unbureaucratic system. So the government is making sure that artists have a guarantee income even in periods when they do not have their own income. I know that this alliance really appreciated the extra five million. as received through the budgetary agreement. Otherwise I share a little concern about the free performing arts field. We have expressed in a note a concern regarding, inter alia: the established free-range companies falling out of the grant schemes of the Council of Culture. We're talking about Jo Stroemgren's company and the World Theatre. I believe that we need to have an active policy also in this field, the free performing arts field. We have politically wanted the structure we have today, with the national scenes and with the regional theatres, they are there, and they live well because they are politically wild. I hope that the same political will will also be shown to the free performing arts field, at least the Christian People's Party will bring it up. We need to strengthen the cultural base wall. It's about strengthening, for example. The libraries, which may be one of the last cultural arenas that are open and free of charge to everyone. We need an active arena policy, because we know that very many cows and corps practice in worn-out premises that are not suitable for what they should be. We still have a job ahead of us, and I hope we can also lift this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12747	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12752	We have to get back into the theme of film. After all, the representative Bekkewold was involved in the processing of the film message, as the Right-Fremskritsparte government presented almost two years ago. The film message met with strong criticism from the field itself because it added to lowered ambitions and less clear goals than the red-green film policy over the years involved in building up the film field. Fortunately, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, SV, the Centre Party, the Left, Right and the Advance Party in the Stortinget made a film settlement, where we tightened up that announcement, added clearer objectives and said that it should be put into Norwegian film. What does the real representative Becca think about the fact that the Film Fund has to take a cut of 16 million. In the budget agreement, when the film industry had already complained that the draft budget meant a reduction in activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12757	This was probably an attempt to escape from something you have been on, and I admit that this was a cut I discovered too late. I myself have been involved in a film deal that I stand completely behind. It was important that we put that film deal in place. I believe that the Stortinget did a very good job in the previous period. If this cut is perceived as a breach of the film agreement that was concluded, I will be the first to review it in connection with the revision. You have to stand by the promise you give, and this cut feels very unfair, all the time we have a deal in place, but I want to be clear that this will be a topic when we deal with the revision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12763	There is no doubt that this cut is not exactly within the Christian People's Party's soul and wishes, but it has been done in the budgetary negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left, in all the time the Christian People's Party also participated in a film settlement that said we should build up and not weaken a Norwegian film effort. But when the representative Bekkewold sees this happening in a round of negotiations, while in the cultural budget presented by the government, we see cutbacks in the press support, not in the follow-up to the artistic economic reform, cut shorts to the Council of Culture – in fact, I would say a break from all the core areas of the Christian People's Party's cultural policy – what does the real representative Bekkewld think about this government's cultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12768	It would be wrong to say that this representative is cheering over the government's cultural policy, all the time we've had to spend a lot of time and resources getting our efforts in place. Now I'm thinking especially of the things that we've been going to have to fix this year after year. I think that should have been unnecessary. Otherwise, I must say that I share the concern expressed by the representative Trettebergstuen that many measures are being moved from the Ministry of Culture to the funds, to the Council of Culture – there is an arm's length distance. Perhaps the Minister of Culture could say something about this in his speech. What is the red thread in the government's cultural budget? I'd like to listen to that and understand it better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12777	I share Mr Bekkewold's analysis of this government's cultural policy, or perhaps a lack of it – the lack of a red thread and the lack of a holistic vision and will in terms of where cultural policy is concerned. The Labour Party wants to reduce the thresholds for participation, because we see that people's cultural practices are too much governed by who you are, the size of the wallet, or where you live. It is undemocratic. In addition, we want culture to be available throughout the country. We want to bet on everything from amateurs to professionals, and we want to get a strong commitment to the state budget to get it done. Are these areas that the Christian People's Party wants to be with and bet on in the future together with the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12784	It's no secret that in particular the free field, there's a field of Christian People's Party burning for. We also want culture to be accessible to everyone, and that it is not the wallet to decide whether or not you can attend. I look forward very much to discussing the cultural school announcement, for which the Christian People's Party was given a majority last year. I look forward to treating it because not least looking at how to make the cultural school more accessible to children and young people. We know it's long queues, and we know it's a price that many people can't pay. Nor is it a secret that the Christian People's Party, when the red-green fell, was involved in all the budgetary increases proposed by the red-green government. So we're there, too, that we think that the public, the state, must also take responsibility for the fact that culture is accessible to everyone. But it's not just about wasting a lot of money, you have to know what this money is going to be used for, and there might be something the Working Party might say about... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12791	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12796	In Norway, we are privileged. We're privileged today to be able to deal with a cultural budget of over 14 billion. kr. The government's aim is to help citizens across the country have the opportunity to experience a rich and diverse cultural life. One thing is that art and culture are important to each of us, but almost more important is the importance of culture to society as a whole. Art and culture enrich our lives, it builds our community. Cultural life gives us different arenas and perspectives for exchange and debate. Art and culture are fundamental to our attitudes to freedom of expression and democracy. In Norway, we are so lucky that the professional and amateur fields work together very well. They're developing each other. They challenge each other. The great art we meet at the Opera or at the National Theatre is for the inspiration of the local women's choir, ballet group, the corps and the amateur layers around the country. Local culture brings people together in small places, enriches the community and allows people to expand. Yes, throughout Norway people can participate in games, sing in choirs or play in corps, bands and orchestras. At a time of high demands for migration, it is important to take care of our national cultural heritage. The government has prioritised cultural buildings in the 2018 state budget. We propose to double the appropriations in this area. At the same time, we are launching a pre-project for the rehabilitation of the National Theatre, which has not been maintained for many years, but has stood and expired. I'm glad we now have a government that takes hold of one of our foremost cultural treasures. It's high time a government did. I believe it is right and important to give priority to national signal constructions and to stop the maturity that has been going on for decades. At the same time, we need to remember that we face tougher times. Independently of a political majority, expenditure on the State budget is likely to grow in the future more than revenue does. In such a situation, we cannot only unilaterally base cultural policy on increased public transfers and meet all the good wishes for a place on the state budget, even if it would have been very pleasant to do. We must ensure that cultural life is maintained in the future, and then we cannot take unilaterally on the basis of increased dependence on the state budget; we must also provide cultural life with more alternative sources of funding. Fortunately, we see that there are many who want to contribute, and that there are more than ever those who are engaged and who contribute to strengthening our art and culture, among others. through contributions to the gift-enhancing scheme or Talent Norway. The government has given cultural life four entirely new schemes that stimulate growth and development, which are innovation, and which help to restore cultural life for the times we meet. In addition to the two schemes I mentioned now, we have also put in place the film incentive scheme, which has been called for by an overall film industry for many years. In addition, I'm proud that we've put Creative Norway in place in Trondheim, which means that many of the artists and cultural workers who want to bet commercially will get help for it. We must also make demands on the use of Community funds. That is why this government is asking questions about the use of money both in the field of sport and in the field of culture. Of course, it's not about lack of trust or confidence in the sector, no, on the contrary, it's our responsibility and our duty to ensure that cultural resources are managed in a way that leads to high-quality cultural experiences and artistic productions reaching the whole population. The media industry is mentioned by several people here today. It is among those who are most aware of the effects of increased digitisation and changing patterns of use. Then it's no use sticking to yesterday's solutions, instruments that were established many decades ago, when we lived in a completely different media reality and media reality. We need to look forward. We need to facilitate innovation and media pluralism. Therefore, the government has taken the first steps towards a more modern media policy instrument. We have introduced platform neutral production support. We have introduced a zero rate for VAT for electronic news media. In this state budget, we also provide direct support for a commercial general programming programme for the first time, and we have proposed the introduction of a new grant scheme to promote innovation in the media sector. As in the rest of society, voluntary engagement is important in cultural life. I see from the committee setting that we are many who share that commitment, and I'm glad. The results of voluntary efforts include: Good growth conditions for our young people, better public health and a strengthened community. We have a good budget for volunteering, among other things. through increased appropriations for choirs and amateur theatres. As from the current ageing period, the beliefs and life views have also been transferred to this committee. The government believes that society, church and state are best served with a clear distinction between church and state, and it is in place in the year that is soon to come. The next step on the road should be to simplify legislation with greater similarity between the Norwegian Church and other religious and life-view societies. That is why the government has also sent out a legislative proposal for consultation now. We look forward to getting the answers back to the hearing and coming to Stortinget with a bill that ensures strong funding and equal funding in the field of faith and life. The allocation for cultural memory purposes has increased significantly in recent years. In 2018, cultural memory measures are strengthened in the form of increased grants for the preservation of peaced cultural memories in private ownership, fire protection of medieval churches and technical and industrial cultural memories. Furthermore, more valuable cultural memories and environments will be supported by increased allocations from the Culture Memory Fund. In addition, funds are earmarked for cultural memory protection in municipalities. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for the good work it has done on the budget for next year. It's a good attitude, it's a suggestion that the government will continue to work on. I particularly want to praise the Left and Christian People's Party for their willingness to negotiate and for their contribution to ensuring a solid and very good cultural budget for 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12830	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12835	The government's film policy was supported by the government in its intervention, but it's not much of a joke to pick up from the film people, even from the government's policy in this area. On the contrary, the industry got this famous 16 million cut. kr to the Film Fund out of the budget negotiations, and it comes up on a budget so poor that for the industry it meant one feature film à la «Kingens no» less for next year. We had a round about this in the previous question hour, the Council of State and I. Then she had really no thoughts or advice about where to cut the industry now. But I really expect those who do such a big cut in an industry that is already under pressure, have also thought about why this cut is justified, and how to solve it. Has the Council of State now been given consideration, and does she want to tell the Norwegian film industry where they should cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12842	I would like to say that the total investment in the film and media sector in the government's 2018 state budget proposal was about 850 million. kr, and then the investment at the Film Fund was over 505 million. kr. When you in Stortinget are going to find out about new bets, it's up to the parties that sit and negotiate on Stortinget. I'm sure that the NFI, which is going to do these priorities, will find a good way to do it. And then it's not that if you compare all the films produced in a year, it will hit such a movie as "King's no." There are also some film productions that have not gone as well as ‘The King’s No’, so I trust that the NFI will make a good prioritisation of this for 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12849	I record that this time I am not getting any clear answer to my question from the Council of State either. Even if you have 850 million. SEK for Norwegian films, the allocation has remained silent for a few years. Then you've had a couple of years cut, and then you get this extra cut in the budget deal. It means one feature film less, that means cut to all the film festivals, that means that top funding for four TV drama productions is going to go away – for example. This is what the industry now has to deal with. But it's another part of cultural life that's cursed these days, and it's the artists who experience being deprived of power and influence by changing the right of appointment of the grant committees. The artist network is a network of 19 organisations representing creative and performing artists in Norway, and they are angry at the Council of State. They have for several years asked for a meeting with the Minister of Culture, but have not received it. Why doesn't the Council of State take the time to meet the country's artistic networks?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12857	I'm going to meet the Artist Network in no time, and I'm really looking forward to it. At that meeting, we will discuss what will be important for the artist organisation to be informed in the artist's message. I am very pleased that Stortinget wants a new artist message to be prepared, and I am happy to start as soon as possible. I look forward to that meeting, where they also get to make recordings at the very beginning, at the beginning, of this work on what they want us as critics to prioritise in order for artists to be more able to live by what they create. In the last 20 years, there have been many measures that have come independently of each other. Now we're going to see everything in one whole, make sure that artists all over the country have good opportunities to live more of their art.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12862	Our Minister of Culture has had to endure harsh criticisms this fall for all the cuts in volunteering, for cuts in media support, for cuts in the Film Fund, and for a number of cuts in culture, but most noise has been because the minister in the budget, without proposing any other treatment, has simply decided that the artists themselves will no longer be able to decide who is to sit in the grant committees – even if there are no studies or figures to show that the scheme works badly. The Minister has even expressed himself in a way that artists’ organisations feel distrusted, and they have not been listened to when they have made proposals. Is the Minister satisfied with his own efforts to engage in good dialogue with the artists' organisations in this matter? And will the Minister invite the organisations more than she has done in this process, in the forthcoming work on the new cultural message – more than the meeting she has set out to meet in the previous answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12869	Artist organisations have been involved in this process. A great many of the counter-representations they've had for what the State Artists' Grant Committee has brought, they've had a positive impact on them. I have a list of all the suggestions that artists' organisations have won. Then I was very surprised when the Senter party opposed this proposal. Because what this means is that artists from all over the country should be represented. Many of our artists live in Oslo. So if a committee makes a proposal where only people in the East are proposed, the Committee for State Artist Grants can go back to the committee and say: Can't you try to find an artist from North Norway, the West or the South so that the whole country is represented? It surprises me that the Center Party is not concerned that the artist population throughout the country should have the opportunity, and guaranteed, to sit on these committees.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12878	Artists from all over the country are given the opportunity to sit on these committees. It is the artists' organisations, 29 000 artists, who democratically choose who should sit in the committees, and they have many different criteria, including: geographical distribution. There has been some variation among the various grant committees in the type of criteria you have, but now the artists' organisations and the artist's network have said that they want to sharpen the different criteria, such as: both geographical distribution and some other criteria shall be met, such as: the fact that there will always be unorganised artists on the grant committees. I think it's strange that the minister chooses to point to the Center Party when it comes to this, because this is about a system that works very well, but where the minister just won't listen to the artists at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12885	We've listened to the artists. That is why they have also achieved many of the counter-representations they have had. This is a proposal that was first promoted in 2003, which many reports and investigations point to, in order to strengthen the legitimacy of the grant committee, and to defend the way in which this is done. I was going to think that the Center Party would manage $300 million. kr of the Community's money, was also concerned that no one should ask questions about the cleanliness of the way it is done. But I think a lot of people will get a surprise around the country if you trust that the Center Party is going to be a party that's involved in representation, both north and south, and not just in the Oslo area, where we have a lot of artists. The committee now receives a safety valve, and the committee leader says that if there are too many artists coming from Oslo, you can now ask questions so that you are sure that artists from all over the country are represented in these committees.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12892	The next replicator is Freddy André Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12897	President, I have a question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12902	No, the representative has no further questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12907	It is a question of whether a line can be drawn on the subject which Helgesen also has, which belongs to the Committee. Is it also possible to ask questions to the minister who is to represent him about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12912	State Council Helgesen?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12917	Yes, the Minister for Climate and Environment. I'm sure he was supposed to be here today. I've been told that Helleland will represent him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12923	Then she represents the government, but the representative doesn't have any more lines, so please go and see you. That's the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12930	It's true that I'm the President-in-Office, no, the Council of State – I'm not going to take over the President's job here and now! But then the representatives must give priority to asking questions about that field, and I am happy to answer those questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12935	It's getting late in the evening, but I'd like to continue to ask some questions about the grant right, because this is an important principle – not a money issue, for once, which cultural policy is often about. So it's like committees from 20 artists' organisations with 29,000 members all together today appoint scholarships together with the state's selection. Governments have argued that organisations may have a tendency to prioritize their own, and may have expressed a little distrust of the artists there – at least the criticism has gone on. But when Telemark's research went through the award of scholarships, one third of those who receive scholarships found themselves unorganized, while a quarter of Norwegian artists are organized, so this is not entirely suspended. So now five political committee members are going to replace the job that 20 organisations with 29,000 members did. Does the Council of State really think that this will give more independence in the appointment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12944	There are five representatives who are appointed to the State Artists' Grant Committee. Two of them are artists and also represent the voice of artists in this work. What the State Artists' Committee has now proposed, and what the leader also points out, is that there is a very high level of trust in these artists' organisations, and that they are trying as hard as they can to ensure a very good representation in these committees. However, if one sees that in some committees there is a gender imbalance, in terms of geography, or in terms of artistic expression, the selection shall have this small safety valve, where one can go back to the grant committee and ask if they can make a new proposal, which will ensure, for example, that: achieves a much greater gender balance. This little adjustment I think actually you're going to live very well with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12949	One of the areas for which this committee is now responsible is what goes on in church and in life, and I think it's very nice that we can work on such an important area, which means so much to so many people. We were able in the budget negotiations to increase the appropriations for the Norwegian Church, by 30 million. for operation and 20 million. for the preparation of church elections in 2019. What we couldn't get in place was to set aside a provision for the Church's fund. Nor has the government proposed this in its budget. The church has a very large number of employees, and therefore they have also assumed a great responsibility for what is involved in pension obligations. What is the reason why the government itself did not propose to allocate more funds to this fund? Does the Government believe that these obligations should be fulfilled in the annual budget proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12958	It is quite right, as the representative Becquerad claims, that we made a redeployment and a cut in the appropriations for the Norwegian Church. It is based on that reason that I believe we should be able to make demands for efficiency even here – that we need to look at how to make more efficient and work in a smarter way. Now that the Church has become independent, I also think that you should go through the whole area of responsibility, turn every stone and work more effectively than you've done before. Then we're going to get back to some of the questions that the representative is asking, also in relation to the law we're going to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12965	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12970	I have said several times from this pulpit that what describes Norway best is hard work, hard work, hard work, this strange word that many countries struggle to translate and interpret. It is the small and large communities that constitute the whole of a society in which we live our lives. The sport is both the spinal cord and the tip of the spear for volunteering in Norway. I belong to the Workers' Party and am proud that my party has always fought for sport. The sport was to be built up to become a popular movement throughout the country. That's why we established Norsk Tipping, which since 1969 has given 135 billion. kr to the community. This is used to build sports facilities and create cultural experiences across the country. The sport should be available to everyone, wherever you lived, and to the whole working class. There are these values many of the country's largest football clubs are based on. One example of course is Norway's best footballag, Godset, a footballag from Gulskogen in the Drammen, where boys were workers in the daytime and played football in the leisure time. We are a proud sports nation. It's not based on the cultivation of the elite, but on community, it's built from below and up, and we have to take care of this. That's why sports policy is about having a huge lag in facilities, in billions of dollars, and about how the Storting should set up for the many sports clubs and teams around the country, so that we can spread even more sports and public health. It's about how we're together to ensure that everyone can participate in sport, regardless of the size of the wallet for Mom and Dad, and how we're going to make sure that in the future, the broadband will help to create the next Martin Ødegaard in Norway. All the volunteers who stand on every single day for my and your children to have safe and active breeding environments, they need to know that they can trust the Workers' Party, that we are actually following up what we promised in the election campaign. We're giving earmarked money to take back to new sports facilities. We're giving more to VAT compensation. We say that it is unfair that the operating costs of facilities that all of Norway has enjoyed, such as the Vikersund hill and the bob and ake plant at Lillehammer, are to be imposed on the communities. Therefore, we will ensure the predictable economy of these facilities. We're a sports nation and we're supposed to be proud of that, and then we're going to take care of the athletes and the practitioners, and then we have to end the discrimination. I want to remind the representative Wold of what he said in the election campaign, that is, what the Progress Party said. He said that the Progress Party does not see any fundamental obstacle in order for practitioners to be able to save money in the exercise fund. But then there was something before a choice – and after a choice. From sport to media policy: Had the Minister of Culture’s budget been adopted, where the Right proposed cutbacks in press support for the fifth time, 30 to 40 new journalists would have disappeared from the editorial work – it was at a time when 1 000 journalists have already disappeared from the editorial work, and Facebook and Google, these major international, global platforms, have eaten 3 billion. of the advertising revenue. I fully agree with Moraeus Hanssen, who belongs to the Right, who once said the following to the Class Struggle: I am deeply concerned that my own party will seek to destroy for these newspapers. Norway is at the top of the world when it comes to media pluralism and diversity of content. It's an important part of our democracy. As elected representatives, we're not going to interfere with what the media houses write about. We're going to have arm's length distance from the editorial, but we need to see the importance of having local newspapers, regional newspapers and national newspapers that relate to the Editor's poster. At a time when there are many ‘fake news’ – where two neighbours can live in almost two different realities due to algorithms of the global platforms, yes, the same global platforms that do not relate to the Varsom poster and the Editor’s poster – this has a huge responsibility. Democracy depends on media pluralism. While the Right and Advance Party lack insight into what Media-Norway needs, the Workers' Party will strengthen the support for the press and actually adjust for wage and price growth, nor have the Left and Christian People's Party fixed in the current budget. It actually means more to the locals and more to the most quoted newspapers, the big, meaningful newspapers. We say action is urgent. For this reason, all proposals submitted by the Media Diversity Committee must be examined before political discussion is brought forward. We say that the government should introduce zero VAT into the revised state budget. We take local radios seriously and make them economical, so that they can participate in digital development. The Labour Party continues the fight for media and content pluralism because democracy needs it and the Storting depends on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e12995	Let me start by repeating that the state budget for 2018 is a government budget for a sustainable and safe welfare society, a budget that is tighter and designed to meet tomorrow's challenges. With what I'm proud of as a backtrace, the 2018 cultural budget is over 14 billion. kr. The government's budget had clear direction choices in both volunteering, cultural life, sport and media policy. The challenge in the years to come with a tighter budget will be to have the courage to give priority to what is most important in the field. At the same time, when something is given priority, it has to mean that something is being downgraded. Having said that, I will commend the budgetary agreement of the Left and Christian People's Party with the government. This has helped to make a good budget even better. We know, as I've been thinking, that budgets will not grow as much in the coming years as in the previous years. Despite this, the Workers' Party's response is more money for the most part. The question, on the other hand, is more difficult to find. The government, in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, has taken important steps to modernise the media policy instrument. Among other things, we have introduced VAT exemptions for electronic news media and platform neutral production grants. In 2017, the VAT exemption alone will increase the indirect aid to the media of approximately 450 million. kr. There are more crowns than the entire press support combined. Now we also see more positive signs in the industry. I've had a lot of meetings with different localisers, all of whom report strong growth in the number of digital subscribers. We are pleased that the parties agree that media support should contribute more to media innovation and that the government's proposal for a new innovation-oriented grant scheme is continued in the budget agreement. The right considers that such solutions, which facilitate innovation and contribute to media pluralism, should be prioritised in the future. That is why we are also looking forward to the treatment of the mass media diversity message. The right recognises the value of voluntary action in all areas of society. That is why we have strengthened the framework conditions for the voluntary sector. The Declaration of Volunteership is one expression of this and must provide a framework for a strong and good interaction with the sector. The government has raised the wage and salary burden limit for non-governmental organisations and the limit on when non-governmental organisations have to pay employers' contributions. We have also raised the limit on the deduction of gifts to non-governmental organisations. The VAT compensation scheme is the single measure that is most relevant to voluntary activity. With the draft State budget for 2018, there has been an increase in the appropriations for this purpose of approximately 500 million. kr from 2013 until the state budget we are debating today. Next year, the budget line is a total of 1.42 billion. kr. The right respects the independence of non-governmental organisations and recognises the valuable work they contribute to the community. The right will build up under voluntary work and ensure a good framework for sport. These are good venues for experiences, public health, commitment, integration and democratic development. In the state budget for 2018, it is about. 190 million. kr for sport. In addition, sport receives a significant share of the VAT compensation and not less than SEK 2.6 billion. kr from the surplus to Norwegian Typing. The sport has never received as much money as they will in 2018. The need for good governance and transparency about what the money goes to is a central priority from the government to the Norwegian Sports Federation. I am pleased with that clarity, and I am also pleased that the total transfers to Norwegian sport have reduced somewhat to the top level, while the framework conditions for the special associations and activity for young people and width are strengthened. Claiming that the government will not do well to volunteer falls on its own unfairness. That lots in opposition will give more to most, is far from what the same lots stood for when they last put themselves in government. I believe that the volunteers themselves are able to assess whether it is the practical policy or the beautiful promises that weigh more heavily.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13025	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13030	The Christian People's Party will build society on the basis of the values mentioned in the Constitution as our Christian and humanist heritage. This is about the infinite value of each human being, the responsibility for managing the creation. It is about both environmental protection and green innovation, and it is about solidarity that also preserves the most vulnerable groups in society. The Church is the deciduous largest actor in Norwegian civil society in caring for, interpreting and practicing Christian values. Of course, the Church has a mission that goes beyond its diaconal and social role. But ever since the Church began to build schools and hospitals in this country, it has also been an important social conscience that has raised people who need a voice. In the low-church movements, like the one started by Hans Nielsen Hauge in the early 1800s, foundership, innovation and local social responsibility have been strong. All of this is based on the idea that God has given them resources and abilities to manage for the good of the land. Luckily, it is not that the Church's most important contribution and role in our society has only a historical dimension. The Church's churches and communities throughout the country are still important for the quality of life and the religious life of individuals. In order to ensure that the Norwegian Church can continue to be nationwide and be given the opportunity to carry out its work with undiminished strength, the Christian People's Party proposed in its alternative budget to increase the operating grant and equity of the Norwegian Church by a total of 80 million. kr. In the budget negotiations, we received a The Christian People's Party will have a church policy that values and supports under the Church's own goal of being a confessing, mind-blowing, ministering and open church.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13042	When we prioritize 1 billion. kr extra for cultural purposes in our alternative budget, it will be difficult to mention all the major priorities we are doing, just in a five-minute post. That's why I've redrawed, even though the vote is about to break, to tell you about two other important areas we give more priority to in our alternative budget, namely media and freedom of expression, and volunteering. Without volunteering, Norway stops. It's a familiar cliché to say, but what's it really about? Well, it's about the voluntary work of voluntary organisations in Norway being equivalent to 147 800 annual works. They create values for 125 billion. kr per year. It's all about everything from the school corps that create life in the village, through the leisure clubs that let young people in the cities get something constructive to do, to explorations on the high mountain in the direction of the Red Cross. Everyone agrees on the importance of volunteering, and it was also reinforced not later than this year in a request decision in this process. But there is clearly a difference between the will to support volunteering politically. Today, a mountain hotel that buys a ski lift gets all the VAT compensated from the state, while Red Cross does not get the entire VAT compensated when they have to buy a snowmobile to drive up the same mountain and bring down those who are stuck there. This has nothing to do with different rules for ski lifts and snowmobiles. On the contrary, it is because we do not yet have full VAT compensation for non-governmental organisations. When the red-green government started work on VAT compensation for volunteers, the proportion that was compensated went up every year. Unfortunately, under this government the proportion has fallen. That's too bad. SV appreciates volunteering, so we're proposing 150 million. kr more than the government to step up to full VAT compensation. In addition, to have a living democracy, we are dependent on a living press with a broad media diversity. This is currently under pressure due to an increasing level of competition for Norwegian media. In order to equip the media industry to better meet new times, we suggest spending $30 million. kr more on the press stand. And in order to raise quality journalism, public debate and freedom of expression, we are proposing a new support scheme for gravitating journalism of 15 million. kr. In SV we are also concerned that quality journalism must be close to people and present in local communities. Too many locals have manned all the way down to the leg. It goes beyond the news coverage around the country. That is why we are proposing to strengthen the local authority support scheme by another 10 million. kr. Today, freedom of expression and free public communication are under pressure again – we cannot allow that to happen without a response.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13057	The media industry is in a demanding transition phase, with challenges that are as serious as, and perhaps even surpassing, migration challenges that some other major industries have been going through and standing up to. It is alarming, because it is a cornerstone of democracy that is now being challenged. The challenges come both from technological developments and, perhaps, from large international media and network players who barely add a tax credit to Norway and who are very difficult to hold accountable in public. For the left, it was therefore important to ensure that the conditions for media enterprises, through e.g. not to cut the production edge, but to wait and look at the devices of the production edge in the context of the government presenting the follow-up to the report of the media failure selection. It was also very gratifying for the Left that we actually got multiples for an increase in production by means of a new innovation and conversion system, for which the Left in the former state budget has been called up, and which was already part of the government's proposal. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to point out one of the call for proposals that were made during the management of the financial situation, which is about VAT exemptions for digital journalism. In 2016, on the basis of proposals and hard work from the Left, VAT exemptions were introduced for electronic news services. This was important for the industry, but narrower media – trade journals and so on. – is also important for the good public conversation. It is therefore very good that the government is now going to reconsider an extension of the VAT exemption, so that the Stortninget already revised in May has a real basis for decision. I would also like to point out that next year's government budget will be a very good budget for voluntary organisations, which have now passed on most of the support across different departments, as well as a monthly extension of the VAT compensation scheme. Finally, I would like to point out that the state budget will once again be a good budget for Nynorsk. Taking care of the wealth of linguistic diversity also brings with it the fact that newnorm is an active and visible language of use, and making modern novelty visible to children and young people in schools and kindergartens. The laureates to Norway's Goals, to the Landssaman conclusion of the new Norwegian municipalities and to the Norwegian Association are involved in ensuring this, both in the development of digital neo-Norwegian provision, in the development of new language development through literature and in the further operation of the future.no – for those who do not know what it is: maybe Norway's best online newspaper for young people in neo-Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13074	Culture and volunteering are important for people, and it is a support bar with deep roots and wide branches in any society. Therefore, culture is a field of activity for the Workers' Party. We're strengthening the budget by about 500 million. In addition to the government's budget, we reverse many of the government's unsocial, unfair and petty cuts that have been proposed. We are also giving priority to new proposals. I want to say that what I feel is a budget, is precisely the unsocial, unfair and petty cuts. We have seen that it is cut in legal aid measures for violent women, LNU has been cut, the 4H cut disappeared, organisations helping prisoners back into society, got cut, film students cut – yes, the list is long and longer than long. After the budget was presented, I was contacted by the desperate blind and weak mind. Telephone news, which has been an important factor in being societally oriented and getting information about what's happening in society, was nothing less than erased. So NOK 600 000 found out that they wanted to cut so they could finance the big stakes. It's petty, it's unfair, and it's unsocial – despite the fact that the listening time has gone up. 330 calls are now, and there are about 800 people using this phone. When I asked Røre's representative Wilhelmsen Trøen in the loop here today, she showed me new technology. That's probably good, but why not talk to them about it? Why not contact the Blind Alliance and hear what can be an alternative? It's totally incomprehensible to me. I asked the Prime Minister about the same thing in the Questionnaire, and the answer was that they had increased the reading time, they had doubled the reading support. Yes, the reading aid has doubled, from 3 to 6 minutes a day. Which of the blind will prioritize using 6 minutes a day for reading support when they need read support to read public documents, to contact Nav or a doctor? I don't think many blind or faint will replace those minutes with newspaper reading. I believe that what remains of this budget, which will go into history books, is that it is a budget of cuts – unsocial, unfair and petty. And I want to say that in the case of the blind phone, it's almost shameful.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13089	Libraries are part of the cultural base wall. They make knowledge, culture, literature and values available to all groups in society, regardless of social, economic and geographical divisions. This has been followed up by this government. Nevertheless, I must quote the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, which points out that: ‘in NOU 2013:4 it is documented that the public libraries are the local budget reader in the period after 2005’. This is absolutely right. In the richest countries in the world, money was not given priority to books and reading, nor was it added to alternative meeting places for the inhabitants. In 2013, the Cultural Investigation 2014 was presented. Local and national cultural life was reviewed and evaluated for the period 2004 to 2014. The committee concluded that the main challenge for public libraries is that they have been systematically underfunded and downgraded. National Library Strategy 2015–2018 was launched as an action plan, a result of work on the 2015 State Budget, where the government put aside 48.5 million. to actions for the public libraries. In 2017 was 18 million. kr distributed to 57 projects – ongoing and new. Another $3 million was added. kr to the National Library, which administers national library strategy. This has resulted in the Finnmark libraries receiving 900000 kroner to develop their libraries. Bergen Public Library has received SEK 1.73 million. to implement five development projects – together with 51 other development projects, which will mainly stimulate and contribute to the development of new library services, the dissemination of library content, the establishment of new forms of cooperation and everyday integration. We choose to interpret the majority in the committee's position and proposals for budget increases to the public libraries as being behind the efforts made by this government to meet the national library strategy and that they support the main objective of the strategy. This is an area that has been done very well, and it is good, for the starting point was as I mentioned, systematic underfinancing and down-priority. The working party claims that the libraries are going in the wrong direction, but that's wrong, now it's actually going the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13109	Our northernmost theater, Beaivváš Sami Teahter, has terrible conditions for its operations. It's located in Kautokeino, and it built them there, is closed because of unacceptable indoor climate. Beaivváš Sami Teaher uses Sami language and works with both artistic and linguistic activities, as well as language communication through a Sami theatre for the whole country, all over the country where it lives together. The theatre is located in Finnmark, but the mission is national, and the whole country is the impact field for Beaivváš. The Sami languages are small – and not only small, but sometimes very small. Some are threatened, and if the Sami languages are to survive, they must be used in different contexts and must be developed. The development of languages takes place through the use of language in work and leisure, but also through artistic activities. The Ministry of Culture refers to the assignment of State Building to explore an alternative with the co-location of the theatre and Sami secondary and reindeer schools in Kautokeino. Both of these institutions are the responsibility of the State and need new premises. The working party is doubtful whether new investigations provide a solution to the acute need for Beaivváš, and whether it makes sense to co-locate the school with the theatre at all. The State is responsible for strengthening the Sami culture. It is enshrined in the Constitution. The Labour Party believes that both projects, both Sami secondary and reindeer schools and Beaivváš Sami Teaher, are required to ensure rapid progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13124	The Workers' Party is the Cultural Party. Culture is important to people's lives where they live. If we had run cultural policy, culture would have been a field of activity rather than a lower priority. For me, the finest week of January is at home in Tromsø, when we have the Tromsø International Film Festival – a week when the film industry and we politicians gather for debate on the development of Norwegian film policy. It's a week when we have one of Norway's largest cultural events, and it's in the north. What really happened in the budget negotiations? Nobody in the negotiations had an overview of where to cut, and what consequences would it have? Left-leader Trine Skei Grande stated on his Facebook page that it was a work accident. You cut down 16 million. kr for Norwegian film. It'll cut for the film festivals. No one knows where to take the cuts or how to influence the film festivals. Sixteen million. kr is almost as much as the total pot for distribution to the film festivals. The film industry should be in the middle of the flash to bet on cultural and creative industries, as it really is a creative industry with tradition to mix the artistic with the commercial. There was a very strong statement from the Norwegian film festivals. They say it's incomprehensible, what they see now. It's incomprehensible that you can defend cutting 16 million. kr in an already pressed film fund. It's quite serious for Norwegian movies. It will affect both the field of production and dissemination. The cut came out of the blue. The tapes are going to be the entire film industry, but most of all, the audience wants to lose. There are only a few weeks until the Tromsø International Film Festival goes off the stack. This unexpected cut gives them greater uncertainty, with which one now has to live. It will have an impact on the economic situation already in 2018. Agreements have already been concluded, nothing can be done about this. The bill must be paid. Who's going to do that? The Norwegian film industry deserves a lot better than cut and work accidents. It deserves bets and reinforcements. Had the Workers' Party been running, it would have been a bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13137	The budget proposal states: «Society archive material is one of the main sources of knowledge about our time and history. The archives of general government are a pillar of the rule of law and of our democracy. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the archives are kept and made available for use.» The party currently supports this description in full. In addition, the proposition states that a public selection with task has been reduced to review the entire archive law. That's true. But the Central Party lacks the government's follow-up to the call decision of the Stortinget meeting as late as June 20th this year. There, the government asked ‘to launch a wide-ranging investigation of society’s archival functions, with particular emphasis on regional archival services, national interactions and the management of digital challenges’. I find it incomprehensible that the government does not mention this decision in its budget proposal, and I am surprised that the committee has not mentioned this either. What is serious about the archive field now is the conversion that has been carried out in the Swedish Archives Agency, where the state archives are ring-fenced, and where one has experienced a strong centralisation of both rental and functions. Developments are serious because the professional competences of state archives are now in the process of being confused. The proposition also mentions a decline in delivered archives to the Swedish Archives Agency, which has caused a lack of storage capacity in the Swedish Archives Agency. This should be something the Storting should care about. I would therefore like to make one suggestion for proposal No. 19 in the setting. It's like: ‘The government asks the government to ensure a real strengthening of the state archives with state archives as local, geographical leader, as well as ensuring the regional competences and public services of the state archives and to submit an appropriate case to the Storting.’ It is only the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party that are behind this proposal in the vote. Then to private archives. It's also a very important part of our cultural heritage. There's a huge lag here. There is a lack of funding that is proportionate to the needs. The government gave 10 million dollars in the fall of 2017. kr in project and development funds for the archive field, where SEK 6 million. kr was an ear-marked private archive. But there have been applications for 52 million. kr. The centre party has a 2 million priority. kr extra for next year, and we have put forward proposals to re-establish our own state support scheme for private archives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13160	In the election campaign there was a lot of talk about Norwegian values, a lot of people disagreed about what really was. But I think most people can agree that the history of our country helps to define what our values are. The heritage of our history can be intangible, but not least clearly visible, at least if it is well kept. In this picture, protecting and caring for cultural memories and environments will be an extremely important part of managing both our history and our values, our collective memory. This is not necessarily a simple job, because there are enough buildings and other objects throughout the country that are both protective and peaceful, tens of thousands. Therefore, cultural memory protection requires resources, as the red-green government took seriously when they saw to it that the Stortinget adopted ambitious but necessary national goals in the field of cultural memory. The most important of these national targets will be achieved by 2020, but unfortunately for both voluntary teams and associations that spend their time on past memories, ship protection and various valuable constructions, the blue-blue government has not followed up the necessary subsidies, nor have the municipalities or all private owners who have to bow to the provisions of the Riksantikvaren enough help to ensure that their properties are properly preserved for the nation during those years. The Riksantik product itself has also lacked resources, which affect e.g.: all the world heritage we have in Norway, those that UNESCO has actually established are inalienable to the rest of the world and therefore need proper governance. Culture memories are obviously down-priority by the government, but fortunately not by the Left, which has contributed over the last few years to remedy some of the budgetary damage. But still, the goals are not being achieved. We in the Central Party have spent a lot of money in our alternative budgets throughout the last period to do our job in order to achieve the national targets by 2020, as well as in our 2018 budget. In fact, we're strengthening this field by over 130 million. kr more than the government originally proposed, because we in the Center Party are concerned that cultural memories are investments that are so valuable to us that we don't have to push them away. We hope and believe that the rest of the Greatness will begin to see the importance of this field also in the future, not least now that climate change seems to negatively affect many cultural memories at a much greater rate than before. The fact that a unanimous committee is in favour of a communication in the field of cultural memory today shows that the field has received renewed attention in this Chamber. I'm really happy about that, and there'll be a lot of Norwegians very grateful for that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13173	SV thought it was a sad budget for cultural life when it was presented by the blue-blue. My colleague, Supreme Court, has described this in a colorful way before today. He described how we increase the appropriations in our alternative budget for culture – for the many, not for the few. Not least it was bad for an industry that I belonged to before I changed the crop, namely the film and TV industry. So at the top of this somewhat poor budget, the Left and Christian People's Party went into the budget and cut even more, that is, 16 million. to the Film Fund. So as far as I can see, feature films, documents, drama series and computer games are the only sectors of the cultural budget that get cut in the central parties' comparison with the government parties. These are companies – and I know that – that have to compete even harder against each other about reduced funding in the Film Fund, which is managed by the Norwegian Film Institute. The producers themselves call this the cut of an unearthed appeal to the industry. In recent years, Norwegian film and drama production has reached great heights, and they have distinguished internationally, together with the other Nordic countries. We no longer have to bow our necks at these major international film festivals – we did that for many years. In the same week that Norway wins its first Emmy for the best drama with Mammon, the most used and specially adapted tool for Norwegian film, TV and games – The Film Fund. With this cut, there are now 34 million missing. NOK to get up to the 2016 level. The draft budget to the government fixed the level of Norwegian film to one major film smaller each year. The titles of the King’s No, Ashkeladden – in the Dovregubb Hall or the Trek – have previously been mentioned in that order. After the conciliation, one more such film must be cut, possibly cutting all film festivals, over half of the game’s development or the top funding of four drama series. It's pretty dramatic. The film industry in Norway consists of a lot of small companies. Only in the Active Producers' Association is it organized over 120 pieces. In addition, there are many small ones that are not organized there. What's a little amazing then is that the Left joined this budgetary agreement, the founder party itself, the party for the little ones. I understand that Breivik from the Left had a problem, he was a little embarrassed about the agreement, and it had, to some extent, the Christian People's Party, with Confessional Violence. They both said they would come back to this by the national budget review. We're going to keep an eye on that, and I'm going to ask the Producers' Association to keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13184	I am pleased that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Progress Party have been negotiating a good budget for Norway for five years in a row. There we have put clear left impressions, also in the field of culture. The budgetary agreement considerably increased the resources available to the cultural areas. That's great. Especially well, I think it's that the means of cultural memory protection were increased. This allows important cultural memories to be upgraded and preserved throughout Norway. Not least, my home area Trendelag has many such cultural memories. I also expect Prime Minister Erna Solberg to be pleased that the Left press so that the pot for cultural memory protection was increased. The increase contributes, inter alia, to: to help us take better care of the amazing buildings on Steinvikholmen in Trondheimsfjorden. Steinvikholmen decorates this year's official Christmas card from the Prime Minister. I'm very proud of that and the rest of the Trondelag. The improvement of the cultural budget is good. But there are still some things we think we haven't come far enough. Southern Sami culture is a minority in the Sami minority in Norway. We have a special responsibility to care for Southern Sami culture in a good way. The Saemien Sijte cultural centre on Snåsa is a project that is important to the Left. We expect the unanimous cultural comment of last year's budgetary procedure to be followed up so that the project can be realised. Also opera and culture houses in Kristiansund is a project that left has been driving. It's good to see that several games come after and want the project realized. We expect the government to take this project further, in line with the assumptions and premises that – once again – were put in the cultural note during last year's budgetary procedure. A new opera and culture house will be an important energy injection in the North West. Otherwise, I must say that I heard a representative who thought that the Stroemsgoed was the best football team in Norway. Now I know that the Minister of Culture and I are cheering on the same football game – and so we also won the 2-1 match. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13197	There's been a pretty cultural debate tonight. At least it shall not be undisputed when some representatives are able to use words such as ‘cut’ and ‘hunting’ and say that people’s culture is governed by the size of the wallet. It's not that experience people out there or we have. In the cultural field, there has been a significant rise in this period, a rise that was not made by the red-green government in the last period – even though they had the largest economic space of action any government has ever had, and they had quite a majority in the Grand Duchy. The VAT compensation has been increased by over 0.5 billion. kr. It provides many important opportunities for teams and associations to carry out voluntary work. The VAT exemption for the media amounts to 450 million. kr. So it can't be that the proposed cut of 18.7 million. kr is what defines the crisis in the everyday life of the media in a society where we need to look widely and widely at the media diversity. 11 billion is granted. kr over several ministries of volunteering, and there is 100 pst. reimbursement of VAT on sports facilities. And never before have more money been transferred to Norwegian sport than now. It is also the case that site owners are waiting shorter now than before for toys to be supplied to sports facilities. We're also a committee that works in another field of equality, so a little greeting to the last speaker might be that LSK Women are Norway's best football team.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13207	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 4-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13219	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting on the matter no. 3-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13228	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of non-profit institutions providing child protection services by the termination of tendering procedures and the replacement of competence and quality-based contracts such as extended self-regulation or other long-term and stable forms of contract, and for the primacy of non-profit actors to commercial operators.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that actors receiving government grants for the operation of child protection measures have pay, employment and pension conditions in line with those in public action.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13262	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the use of tendering clauses to ensure equivalent pay, pension and employment conditions when contracts are concluded with commercial actors in the field of child protection.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13279	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government to strengthen the quality and scope of public child protection, while at the same time reducing the use of commercial private actors and giving preference to non-profit actors rather than commercial actors.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Central Party and the Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13298	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the Child Protection Act in order to ensure that government grants benefit the child-restraint children and do not benefit commercial child-restraint actors’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13325	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13342	The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e13359	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e14000	A total of 26 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left the proposals No 2 and 3, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 4-12, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 13, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 14–16, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 17 and 18, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 19–21, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 22-24, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 25 and 26, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e14033	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 25 and 26, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to move the Norwegian Cultural Council’s assistant scheme back to its own entry in the Ministry of Culture’s budget.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asked in dialogue with the relevant actors to establish and develop a new support scheme for emerging groups in the free performing arts field.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e14057	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-three from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Property Tax Act which exempt all owners of buildings which are either protected under the Cultural Memory Act or regulated under the Planning and Building Act from municipal property tax.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e14072	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government in the revised national budget 2018 to propose a permanent VAT compensation scheme to owners of buildings that are protected by the Cultural Memory Act, related to the additional costs of antique maintenance.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e14089	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-four, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose other tax relief models that can contribute to the smooth maintenance of buildings that are either protected by the Cultural Memory Act or regulated by the Planning and Building Act.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e14106	There is a vote on proposal No. 19–21, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure a real strengthening of the state archives with state archives as local, geographical leader, as well as ensuring the regional competences and public services of the state archives and to submit an appropriate case to the Storting.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals on how the State can facilitate the full or partial recovery of the costs of archaeological surveys/excavations by several small private action holders.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with an escalating plan for Norwegian cultural memory funds, so that the fund will receive 300 million in the longer term. cents for annual distribution.’» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e14137	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals to amend the applicable law on cash support, in order to facilitate the work of municipalities on good integration.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e14154	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the budget calls on the government to ensure equal treatment of top-level athletes with regard to access to the exercise fund and to notify the Stortinget of its follow-up at the latest in the revised national budget 2018.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e14171	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for 11 million to be set aside by the government. crowns within the scope of the instrument allocation for operating aid to cost-intensive installations of a unique national and international nature, providing functions for international events.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e14188	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting the lifting of the 12-year limit for the basic funding of free performing arts groups pending new support schemes for the groups reaching this limit’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e14205	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to re-establish the scheme with the Cultural Spa.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e14223	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to continue the annual grant scheme for State scholarships.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e14240	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-12, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work on introducing clearer guidelines on equipment lending financed by the Item Grants for measures against child poverty. It is necessary to ensure that lending schemes make it easy, safe and efficient to establish and operate the lending of sports and leisure equipment to children, young people and families.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to make the system of VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities regulated.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to maintain the current system of appointment of the grant committees.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that cultural heritage as an industry is also covered by the mandate of Creative Norway.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to enable Stiklestad National Cultural Centres to carry out preparatory and coordinating work on the ‘National Jubilee 2030 – Norway for a thousand years’.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government asks the Government to evaluate the conversion of the Swedish Archives Agency during 2018 in particular in view of the position of the Swedish Archives, the availability and the security of regional professional competence.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government asks the Government to examine all aspects of the Media Multiplicity Committee's proposal before proceeding to political discussion in the spring of 2018.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider proposing to amend the existing VAT exemption for electronic news services in the context of the revised national budget 2018, which will also include in depth/neighbourhood journalism and the sale of individual items. [[VAT § 6-2]] The government was asked to investigate how an extension of the current VAT exemption regime is to be implemented, in cooperation with media actors, what the extension should include and a ratification in ESA.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the creation of a new searchable support scheme for gender equality measures for cultural actors.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e14300	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to intensify and strengthen the recruitment of employees of both sexes in the departments and underlying departments in order to achieve a more balanced gender balance.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take an initiative with regard to the professional environments outside the administration in order to assess whether these can be integrated into the same structure as the other equality centres.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e14324	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to wait for the change in national targets to be taken into account until the bigotry message on the cultural memory field has been addressed.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e15859	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e15871	I could not vote!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e15876	Then the corrected result was that 53 voted in favour and 49 voted against the Committee's position on A I, and the vote was therefore approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e16102	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e18266	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e18671	It's over B VII. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e18685	It shall be counted against B II to VI and VIII and IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e18733	It shall be weighed over C II, III and V. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e18747	It shall be counted against C I, IV and VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-12.ana.ud477e19446	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
