ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e28	The representative of Mr Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e33	On behalf of Iselin Nybø and myself, I would like to propose new measures to promote equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e38	The representative, Jette F. Christensen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e43	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Martin Kolberg, Gunvor Eldegard, Michael Tetzschner, Erik Skutle, Helge Thorheim, Gjermund Hagesetter, Per Olaf Lundtägen, Bård Vegar Solhjell and myself on amendments to the EOS Control Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e48	The representative, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e53	On behalf of the representatives of the big business Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Ketil Kjenseth and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen international and national efforts to combat antibiotic resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e58	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e74	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Anniken Hauglie and Per-Willy Amundsen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e83	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. A few days ago, there was a verdict in Stavanger District Court. A man had knocked up his wife after finding a picture on her cell phone that showed that she had been illegitimate. He gave a milder judgment than he would otherwise have had, by referring to the first paragraph of Paragraph 80(e) of the Penal Code of Indemnity. A similar case is known to us from the district court in Kristiansand last year. A pregnant woman was beaten, kicked and put on a cut on her body, but because the eunuch had just learned that she – who was his girlfriend then – had been with another man, he received a milder punishment. The Court of Justice shall examine individual cases. We do not, nor do we take a position on the outcome of these cases. But we're lawmakers, we decide the principle that people are judged by. Selected in close relationships is an important theme for us in the Working Party. We also record that the national lawyer has prioritised this, and we are pleased. At the same time, we see that it is absolutely necessary to use this day – 8 March, women’s day, in 2017 – to confirm: There is no ‘corrected harm’ in a peer relationship. There's no rage that makes it easy to beat your wife. If case-law develops in the opposite direction, the Labour Party is asked to take the political initiatives needed to stop the ‘corrected harm’ paragraph from being used in party election cases. My question is: is the Minister of Justice offered to do the same?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e94	Like the representative, I cannot comment on this specific matter either. It is the responsibility of the courts to impose the appropriate penalties on each individual case. The prosecution authorities will be able to appeal against the judgment if they disagree with it. Partner violence is never justified. Violence in close relationships is gross crime, which the government takes most seriously. A number of measures against violence in close relationships are being implemented and new measures are being considered on an ongoing basis. In criminal proceedings, the courts often have great freedom within the criminal framework set by the legislator. In criminal matters, the courts are set up with one tradesman and two laymen, including: in order to ensure that the punishment is enshrined in the general legal certainty. The measured penalty shall appear as a correct and reasonable response to the individual case and shall be based on a total judgment, in which both the offence and the offender's person are involved. The Court of First Instance assesses the individual case on the basis of the specific evidence at hand. In principle, the law should not deter the right to focus on specific aspects of the facts in each case. Therefore, I do not think it is right to initiate a legislative change at present, but there are ongoing assessments of the need for legislative changes, precisely in order to provide a sufficient level of criminal protection for those at risk of violence. We also need to consider that more when it comes to things like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e106	I found the answer from the Minister of Justice to be quite perceptive. He emphasises the responsibility of the courts to decide what is right and reasonable in the light of what needs to be considered. He says that there is no need to make any promise changes as he sees it today. It is difficult to interpret it in any other way than that he thinks that the paragraph on ‘corrected anger’ should also be used in party-trafficking cases, in matters of close relations abuse, because he says at least he won’t do anything to prevent this from happening. He doesn't want to take any political initiative. Then I almost have to ask: if the Council of State thinks that one should have the opportunity to use ‘corrected anger’ to put the punishment down in party election cases, can he give us some examples of situations where he thinks that election or abuse against partners is ‘justifiable’? It'll be useful for us to get ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e111	I believe that, like myself, the representative believes that we should allow the courts to operate with what the courts are doing, and we should not have strong opinions about assessments that are made in individual cases. But of course the legislator has a task to ensure that the law is in line with a general legal opinion. I share that view, too. I think that of course there's reason to go closer and see if it's necessary to do legal action, and I think we always have to do that, to fight partner violence and combat violence in close relationships is an important matter for the government and also, as I understand it, for the Stortinget. So I don't rule it out, but I think we can't, on the basis of a single thing, consider how to design the law. This needs a more careful review.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e118	It opens for follow-up questions – first Lene Wagslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e123	The Minister of Justice says that the government takes power seriously in close relations. Then it is disappointing that decisions taken by the Stortinget to ensure and help people who are exposed to the party election or elected from exparties are not followed up. Two years ago, the Stortinget decided that the visit ban should be evaluated, on a proposal from the Labour Party. Over two years ago, we have agreed that the government should ensure that reverse electoral alarms are used more widely. The numbers from the Police Directorate are depressing, so they're not used. So my question is, what is the reason why the government, who says they take this seriously, does not follow up decisions of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e130	Preventing and combating violence and abuse in close relationships is a high priority of the government, which I was also involved in the previous article. I want to put the spotlight on those at risk of violence who experience threatening behavior from current or former partners. So it's a group that lives with constant fear and that hasn't been protected well enough. I believe that society in the past has failed this group in many ways. I am not satisfied with the use of the reverse violence alarm. It has been used in too few cases. That is why I have also taken the initiative of the Ministry to review and see if we have the opportunity to turn around the principle – not only that we should have the reverse alarm of violence, but also that it should be the general rule in such cases. That is something we actually assess, because I am in no way satisfied with the extent to which the reverse violent alarm has been used.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e137	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e143	I think the Minister of Justice should take that assessment very seriously, because I think that was a good proposal, so I hope he will follow it up. But I also want to touch within an article that is in the VG today, where they have passed 176 judgments relating to rape. That article shows that ethnic Norwegian invaders are sentenced to 20 pst. lighter penalties, as well as so-called party-related rapes, provide lower penalties. If the victim knows the perpetrator, it'll be 30 pst. lower penalties. It is extremely important that the views of the Court are good. One has discussed the so-called Hemsedal case, which many of us thought was very special. So my question to the Minister of Justice is, when he sees the correct ones only 176 cases that have gone through, but nevertheless the result that VG presents today, what does he think about it? And in that case, does he believe that this is what the United Nations Committee on Gender Equality has said, that there is a need for more training in the courts, or other measures? Or is he satisfied with the percentage referred to in those judgments?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e151	I think that the decisions of the courts in individual cases – and that's what we're talking about, that's the sum of individual cases – can be quite demanding to decide on at an overall aggregate level and say that here's the other, I kept saying, underlying reasons for the judgements made in criminal matters. I think it's important that we always evaluate and evaluate how we handle criminal cases in a good way, but I think it's hard to see that there should be any obvious reason to say that the courts here are acting unfairly. But you always have to review it, you always have to focus on non-discrimination. So it'll always be that singles are singles, and then when you're aggregated in sum, you don't have to tell so much about reasons other than just the punishment of it... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e156	It's time! Jenny Klinge – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e164	There have been many issues and debates in the media about arrests in the courts and the extent to which these arrests can affect whether someone is convicted and what punishment the convicted person may receive. It also applies to the subject raised by the representative Tajik, whose theme was ‘corrected anger’ and the much-mentioned Hemsedal saka. An important principle of the Norwegian legal system is equality of laws and legal certainty, and it must be an objective that different discriminatory behaviours of judges or laymen do not lead to an adverse outcome. How will the Council of State work concretely to gain more knowledge of the choice and abuse of the judicial system and thus take action to combat old-fashioned arrests?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e171	I think here that as in most other cases where you need to spread knowledge, we have to facilitate that. Then I think that when it comes to criminal reactions, we, as politicians, either in legislative or executive power, should be held back from drawing conclusions on behalf of the courts. I assume that the courts and the Norwegian court are working very well. We have a well-functioning rule of law in Norway, the principle of non-discrimination is central, and I think that we should be restrained from making any other basis than fair punishment. But there's always reason to evaluate, there's always reason to do more research on these things, because knowledge here – as in all other areas – will help to inform and improve in the next instance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e176	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e182	The Council of State clearly sees it as difficult to talk about the law, but the auxiliaries control the council of state. I want to raise a group that loses in this auxiliary unit. Women who are subjected to domestic violence have an amazing system in our crisis centres, which makes an invaluable effort. But crisis centres do not accept women with drug problems. Then you'll be subjected to violence in the partnership you're in, and you have drug problems, you don't get any help. Then you don't have any 'heroes' to come to, you have no one to come and accept you. These are women who are often subjected to violence. So my question is, does the Council have any solution to what we do for the group of women who are rejected in the crisis center door because of their own drug problem – often as a consequence of the violence you have lived with for a long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e189	I have to say that I have a great understanding of the problem raised by the representative. There may be situations in which these types of balances are not necessarily given, and there may be reason to consider how this should be handled in the future. I think here we are between two different offers that might be better coordinated with advantage. I will definitely look into whether we can help us to deal with it better in the future. In any case, it is important that all those who are exposed to violence in close relationships have a good offer from society, and the best possible offer we can provide. That means I'm also open to whether we can organize this better in other ways in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e194	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e199	We are going to let the courts do what the courts are doing – I have to say, in truth, that there were new notes from the Progress Party in a debate on the level of penalties. It's convenient to discuss men's violence against women on March 8th, for a more serious topic we can't mark on this day. It's about women's freedom, health and life. I then think that the Minister of Justice's assessment of bureaucratic speech points is not entirely in line with the seriousness of the matter. Let me ask you a very specific question. The predecessor of the State Council Amundsen, Anundsen, was asked in the fall about the SARA police tool, which is to be used to expose violence in close relations. He then replied that it was not implemented in all districts, and that there were challenges in several places. It's about women's safety, life and health, and so I wonder, can the Council of State now guarantee that all districts and units have received training and use this tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e208	SARA is a very good tool that makes the police better equipped to fight and provide proper follow-up when dealing with violence in close relationships. It's an instrument that's going to be used all over the line, and I believe it's about to be done. I can't guarantee it, but I can check it. This is an instrument that works well, that has given us good results, and that will also be used. I see that the police themselves are very eager to use it, because you have seen that it works well, but I cannot answer now and guarantee 100 pst. That's what it's done. It should have been done, and I can come back and give a more concrete answer to that. I'm not reading bureaucratic speech points. This is actually one thing that involves me very much, and I believe that as a society we have done too little to help these victims.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e215	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e222	One in ten women has been raped. Half of the rapes occur while the victim is under 18 years of age. There is no doubt that rape is a serious social problem. To combat it, we need to prevent, we need to investigate, we need to solve rapes, and the victims need to be taken care of. This work must have the highest priority. When a government wants to focus on a matter, it often creates an action plan – not because a plan is so important in itself, but because it sets objectives, new measures are put in place, and, not least, it coordinates which of the departments is to do something, who is responsible, and when it is to be done. When e.g. The government today launches the Action Plan against Forced Marriage, one will probably say something about how important this is. There may be attitudes at school that the Minister of Knowledge will follow. There may be evidence and DNA tests that the Minister of Health will follow. There may be an investigation commitment that the Minister of Justice will follow. The previous action plan against rape expired in 2014. It's been years. And since then there has been no new action plan, despite the fact that we have asked for it several times in Stortinget. In the past, the government has replied that they are assessing it, or are investigating whether to have a new action plan against rape. As the government has only months left before the rollover elections, it may seem that they have not planned to promote a new action plan. My question to the Minister of Justice is quite simple: Is it simply that this government is not going to promote an action plan against rape, and what is the strategy for combating and preventing rape?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e233	We don't have immediate plans about it from the government, but I see the point. I believe it is for several reasons an important matter to raise. I'm going to take this with me in the further work, because I'm very concerned that we're fighting this. There are a lot of problems in this area that are now becoming more and more visible to society. I think about child abuse, which has received a lot of attention lately, general rape issues, people who are exposed to violence in close relationships. These are complex issues, on which, as a society, we have focused too little, and I think it is important that we implement targeted measures to reduce their scope. Then an action plan can be a way of meeting it. The most important thing is that we deliver good, accurate measures that work. And I promise that these are important things that I'm concerned about, that we're going to work on, and that we'll come up with more follow-up actions – regardless of whether we come up with our own plan for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e238	I thank you for a frank answer, and I am happy for that. I fully agree that the most important thing is action. But when there are so few reviews, and in addition, many of those who report the case feel that the case is being handed down, there is a great deal of stress for the victims. We know it's about trust in the system, and if it's not trust in the system, it's a big challenge. It is also about attitudes. In recent times, there has been a lot of attention on the subject of Russians – I would say rough Russians. I thought I would quote some of the songs first, but it is not appropriate to present the lyrics in Stortinget. I have no doubt that there would be unparliamentary expressions there. But the Russians testify to extremely degrading attitudes toward women. The police have said that language is shocking. They bear witness to frightening attitudes and values. If a person sings or says it's okay to exploit minors, or produces girls as objects that you can only take care of, yes, it does something about the attitudes of the boys. What does the Council of State think about those Russian songs?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e247	Like the representative, I find that this – in danger of breaking parliamentary language, which I am not supposed to do – is texts that I do not like very much. I share the representative's view that this is degrading to women, but it's even worse than that, because it's actually also a direct call for crime, in order to understand those songs correctly. I think it's very important that we tell you that this is actually not okay. It is in no way possible that popular culture in youth settings spreads and uses this type of ‘administrative entertainment’, because this is in no way good. Then it's important that we say from. Fortunately, I note that there have been many reactions, which have, to some extent, also contributed to some thinking again. But this is not good, and it is important that we tell you about it – not least on a day like this, on March 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e252	There will be follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e258	Individual things are individuals. When a young girl, a woman, is raped, it has consequences for her whole life, both mentally, physically and socially – they can't stand being in contact with people if they feel threatened. How women are met in the rape ward is central. Many people feel that there is not enough competence. Victims of rape experience that not enough forensic tests have been taken to ensure that evidence is not secured. What will the Council of State do to ensure that we have sufficient forensic competence in our receptions of rape, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that the individual - not the individual - who is subject to assault is actually followed up both legally and humanly?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e265	I am very concerned that we are facilitating that the threshold should be low in order to get help – that we have a reception system that makes the threshold low, and that you have the competence to handle it in a good way. This is the government very concerned. Then I think that legally there is always reason to go through and look at both punishment and device. We will bring a matter to the Stortinget at a later date, which is announced, where we, among other things, look at criminal law responses, to follow that lead. Along the other track, I have a lot of attention on this. I agree with the representative that this is not an individual matter, but an individual, and as an individual one is to be accepted in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e272	Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e277	When Nora in 'Sham' thought that she had been chosen, the immediate reaction to Vilde, one of her friends, was that she had to go to the doctor's office where the attack reception was. We know that's important to ensure evidence. That was a good advice from a good friend. Fortunately, Nora cages in Oslo where there is a well-functioning district council reception. An investigation carried out in 2016, as VG showed, shows that there are very large differences in the quality of selective receptions around the country. It is important that you work across departments when dealing with these questions. I also think that there was a need for an action plan against electoral regime, which the Christian People's Party called for, because it might naturally have sounded at home in such a plan. But as long as we don't have a plan like that, I'm wondering, no matter what the government has done when it comes to these inequalities that were discovered in 2016, in order to secure girls and women who are subjected to electoral review, best-quality abuse receptions throughout the country for, among other things. ensuring important evidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e284	Legal certainty requires that we have an equal offer just to ensure evidence, which in the next round may be decisive in legal proceedings. I think I'm worried if you don't feel that the offer is similar across the country in the sense that you're able to secure evidence, because I think it needs to be facilitated. I want to look at this in the light of what you're saying, see if there's anything we can do. If the situation you describe is real in the sense that it's not only experienced, but that it also has real effects in individual matters, then there may be a basis for looking into it. In principle, legal certainty shall be such that regardless of where one is subject to an offence, whether in a city or in the country, in the districts, the same legal follow-up shall be ensured.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e291	Jenny Klinge – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e297	Elections are a problem in all communities, but to a greater or lesser extent. There are several factors that can affect the extent of this magnitude. Preventive and staggering work is important, and this work must start early. The police, as they know, are making a constructive effort in Norwegian schools, which are particularly positive. Does the Council of State mean that the police can even more work towards children and young people in order to prevent abuse and sexualised violence? And will he take the initiative for this to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e304	I am in no way repudiating any kind of action that can effectively combat violence and abuse against children. What we've been exposed over the last few years, over the past few years and especially in the last year, shows that this is a challenge that society is facing, which is far greater than many had thought. That means we have to follow up along several tracks. I don't exclude anything in that way if it can be effective to combat this type of very serious crime. Secondly, there is also reason to point out that one of the measures that will strengthen our ability to combat just violence and abuse against children is the reform of the police. So I also hope that the Central Party can see the need for us to be more effective in combating this type of serious crime through the measures that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e311	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e316	I want to ask the follow-up question to the Minister of Knowledge. Combating violence and rape is also about reversing attitudes in a society and building knowledge in a society. One of the keys to getting it done is to have good sexual education in school and good education in kindergarten, which allows children to learn both to put boundaries around themselves and about their bodies. This is one of the things that is good prevention against even experiencing the rapes that we experience -- it's girls who manage to set clear boundaries, and people who have a conscious relationship with their own sexuality. So I ask the Minister of Knowledge, who is sitting on a lot of the tools to get a good sexual education right from kindergarten up, if it's not one of the bets that can really prevent the rapes we see.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e325	Let me take the factual, political part of the answer first, and that's that sex education is a natural part of the school. It's part of the school today, and so has the Storting agreed that we're going to renew all the curricula in school. Then we have decided that lifelong learning and public health should be raised as a theme and systematised in a better way today. Getting acquainted with your own body, getting familiar with borders, getting acquainted with what's offensive and not, is a central part of it. So the second part, and it's a little bit about school as the arena. Today we know that one of the common bullying and bullying in Norwegian school is whore, and it's not guys that are called it. We know that too many girls are exposed to what is sexual assault. If you call it unwanted sexual attention, or if it's grabbing or commenting, it happens, and unfortunately, sometimes it's so that it gets trivialized as well. It's not supposed to. The school shall be safe, but shall also ensure that everyone understands that the infringement is an offence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e332	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e337	I want to ask the Minister of Justice to find his way back here next to us. I was actually going to ask a much more specific question, but the debate has revealed, as the Minister of Justice says, that this is a matter of high priority to the government. And when asked questions, it turns out that there's pretty little work here. For this reason, my question is quite clear: since the blues came to power, what will the Minister of Justice say have been the three most important measures to prevent, counteract and manage electoral law?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e344	I believe that in order to be able to combat abuse in a better way, it is the reform of the police, by which the party of the other representative is opposed. It is about building the skills needed to effectively combat types of crime that are challenging and also require more competence. It's not that these things can be solved with today's janitor's office structure, if it's done in the districts. We depend on having competent environments and building skills to handle these issues in a good way. That is why this is at the heart of the reform of the police. It is one of the important instruments, which unfortunately has been poorly developed in the debate. Some are more concerned with discussing urban-land issues than with what is real: the content to deliver better in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e351	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e356	To the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs: The centre party works for public services near people because it provides greater security, it's cheaper because it's less bureaucratic, and not least there's less expenditure for people in lost working hours and travel expenses. People in everyday life shall be assisted by municipal care for the elderly in their familiar environment, by a police force capable of carrying out preventive work, and by Nav. People need Nav when you have more trouble in life than a sea and the family is able to deal with, whether it's unemployment, illness or personal crisis. When you know Nav's basic tasks, it's obvious to many that you can't just log on to the Internet or drive miles on taxi or bus to meet Nav; you have to have professionals in the community. The government's centralisation plans are in conflict. It makes it more accessible and less decision-making at the local Nav office. The Nav office in the municipalities is under the law a partnership between the state and the municipality. The centre party is deliberately working for Nav to act as a hub for social and welfare services in the municipality and to become more important in the work of local governments. Local government must engage far more strongly in the field of labour and welfare. My question is therefore: Will the government review a municipal government decision if it goes in to strengthen the Nav office in the municipality in cooperation with the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e369	The partnership in Nav is legal, and it is Nav, together with the municipalities, who decides how and where the Nav offices should be. When the government submitted the Nav message last year, which received great support, not only from Stortinget, but also from employees and others, some of the purpose of the message was to contribute to greater and better professional environments in Nav and more accessible to users through the channel strategy – i.e. new solutions for Nav in contact with their users. I have previously referred from this pulpit to the Nav offices in Lillehammer and Gausdal, where two courageous local authorities – Gausdal and Lillehammer respectively – decided that they wanted to merge the Nav offices in the respective municipalities. It's now done. The feedback I get from both users and employees at the two offices is outstanding, both because the employees have received larger professional environments, and because they have received new technological solutions, including: through the so-called Nav mobile app, i.e. that they have a laptop and can take their office with them, visit the users – whether individuals or businesses – outside. You don't have to come to the Nav office if you don't want to, you can be taken out. All in all, this contributes to larger disciplines, more accessible services, a more modern hub. Back to the question, whether I would say no to decisions on the local council. No, the local government decides on the Nav framework, and then it's the partnership that decides what it's like to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e379	I thank you for your answer. I understand that the State at the Council of State will not review municipal government decisions that seek to maintain their own office, if they see it as the best solution. I am grateful for the answer and want municipalities around the country to be aware of it and to continue working on that question in order to get a better offer. Nav works too bad today. There has not been one door to one supervisor representing several disciplines, who has time to assist one and who has the necessary decision-making powers. This has to be done. It's a fallout when the dissatisfaction among the users is so great that the security personnel in the reception, as it is in the Drammen, and we have so many messages about a system that doesn't work. Will the Council of State take action and transfer more government employees to the first line while giving greater decision-making power to those who follow people personally?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e388	The representative refers to the guards in reception and to the fact that Nav is not working. Reception guards may be about Nav staff experiencing threats from the users coming there, and it has nothing to do with the Nav reform or how Nav works as such. It is about protecting employees from people who not only behave threateningly but who may be directly threatening. We are committed to giving greater local freedom of action to the Nav office. This is the starting point for the big message that we made last year — having more local freedom of action, delegating more authority down into the organisation, providing increased competence in the offices. Competence is important precisely because we want more local freedom of action. We want more authoritative Nav offices. We're now working on operationalization: what's going to be more authoritative? What tasks may a person delegate down to the organisation, if any? The representative is engaged in having one door in. When the Nav reform was adopted, it was the starting point, but the largest Nav office today is nav.no. So we have to make sure that we have the services that are needed to reach the users where they are in a new era.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e397	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Ivar Odnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e402	Last week, TV 2 was able to report Thor-Egil in Hammerfest, who has gone for work clearance money from Nav since 2014, a performance like a sheep while waiting for clarification. Then, in consultation with a doctor, Nav shall find out whether a person has residual or permanent disability. The 21-year-old has previously applied for permanent disability benefits. In a autumn 2014 rejection, Nav wrote, among others. that his ability to work is not impaired because of serious and permanent illness, injury or hearing. Thor-Egil is born with scoliosis, which leads to skepticism in the spine. What he is now missing is clarification, and he lacks distinction into food and livelihood. Thor-Egil's case was seen by the media, and he is now getting help, but what Thor-Egil and others with different needs for the auxiliaries around them need is that the auxiliaries see them. Work is now in progress on the centralisation of the Nav office. How does the Council of State think moving the good helpers further from the ones they are for should make a lot better for the user?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e409	First of all, I would say that I think most people who read about Thor-Egil, were affected by the story he told. That's not how we want the auxiliary device to be. Nav himself has said that they have dealt badly with this matter. They themselves have taken the initiative to clean it up. The last thing I heard from the meeting that was between Nav and Thor-Egil last week was that now Thor-Egil was satisfied with the help he had received. It is important that Nav meet users who need help, do good work, show good judgment and help those who need help, and not contribute to such a difficult situation as we saw. I can't see what that story and centralization has to do with each other. Now the government says we're not concerned with centralizing Nav. What we're saying is that we want larger and more authoritative Nav offices. Nav, in partnership with the municipalities, has to decide how the office structure should be. Not everyone wants to come to the Nav office – someone can visit at home, others can do the problems online.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e416	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e421	An important part of Nav's organisation is what the Council of State calls a channel strategy. It means more digital solutions, and it supports the Workers' Party. But it's a big but in it: those who don't master the digital solutions must be able to use channels other than the digital ones. I have to say that I am surprised that the Council of State has not yet cleared up the matter of the thousands of pensioners who want to get their pension payment in the post as before, who do not have access to ICT solutions that allow them to pick up their pay slip. It seems even more strange when it says on Nav's own pages that you are responsible for checking the basis for the correct calculation of the tax charge. What does the Council of State say to all those pensioners who don't now get that opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e428	The Channel Strategy is an important part of the modernisation process: to enable more people to do tasks themselves, to obtain more information and help more through different network solutions. There has been a lot of attention around so-called social security responses. It's got a lot of commitment. Many people seem to think that you should not get information in writing at all. Fortunately, that's not right. It is still the case that if there is new information, you should get it in writing. If the information changes, you should receive it in writing. The annual report shall be given in writing. What you no longer need to send out automatically on paper is when the data are the same in months after month. I have asked Nav to be flexible in a transition phase. Nav figures show that there is a marginal increase in last year's number of enquiries. There is a lot of evidence that the pensioners are handling this in a good way. Few people make contact. But I've asked Nav to be flexible and follow up on this, so people get the information they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e435	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e440	It's the Women's Day, and then I think the ladies are going to show up, so the Minister of Labour is going to have to come up again. It's the International Women's Day today, and we in Norway have a long and proud tradition of equality. We are one of the leading countries in the world in terms of freedom of choice for women, but there is still much left. Among other things, we have one of the most gender-based labour markets in Europe. It's very little freedom of choice, it feels like, for many young girls and boys. When it comes to choosing a career later in life, many people feel that they have to choose traditional. I think the stupid thing about it is that you lose a lot of talent in a lot of areas. It's stupid that we almost only have women who are health sisters in school, because there are many boys who need to talk to a man who understands them, it's stupid that we have some professions that are almost reserved for one sex, which means that you get less diversity practiced in the individual professions. I don't think we get the potential in Norway if we're just going to have women who are nurses, and men who are leaders in private business. My question to the Minister of Labour this day is: What effective measures could we have taken to make a country as equal as Norway is also more equal in employment, to make it more equal in pay, to make it more equal in freedom of choice when it comes to choosing a profession, and to unlocking the potential in Norway? Clearly, women’s participation in professional life is much more important for Norwegian welfare than oil or any subtle invention has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e449	I can start by congratulating you on the day. This is an important day. Although we have come a long way in Norway, there are still some remaining. I share the representative's views about the gender-based labour market and how important it is that more people also choose – I kept saying – untraditional, precisely in order to get more competent employees in. Now the numbers on the labour market show that it's going in the right direction. We see that there are more women working full time now than before – not many, but we see some improvement. We see that the gender pay gap goes down somewhat – not enough, but it goes in the right direction. We see that there have been some more female leaders – not enough, but it goes in the right direction. So there are small steps towards a more equal labour market. It is a fact that some of the main causes of the gender-based labour market are also educational choices. Girls pick traditional women's clothes, boys pick traditional people's jobs. If we are to achieve a more equal labour market, we must also make more people more untraditional in their educational choices. On the government side, we support some projects that may not solve all the problems, but at least can be a small contribution. Among other things, we have What is called Men in Health, where Nav cooperates with the health sector to make more of the men choose the health sector. We also support projects such as girls and technology, to make girls make more traditional human-dominated education choices, which we hope and believe can contribute to the creation of a more equal labour market. It is a fact that we parents must also influence our children to dare to think differently. The school can do its own thing, but we parents are -- believe it or not -- more important advisers to our children than we might even think we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e463	I sometimes envy the Swedes for having a slightly more lively gender equality debate than what we have in Norway. One of the discussions has been on innovation also in the public sector, in the public sector as well as in the public sector, the possibility for traditional women's organisations and also entrepreneurs. Among the numbers that I love most from last year were those that showed that we got an increase of almost 10 pst. within the area of women starting separately. I think that's because we've fought through in the budgets stronger social rights for entrepreneurs. It is still risky to start your own business, both in the case of sick leave, in the case of sick leave because of sick children, and in the case of pension rights – all those things where you do not queue as much if you create your own seas at work as if you get it from others. So, isn't it important to promote equality in Norway to also promote women entrepreneurs? One of the best ways to do it is to give larger social security networks to those who are employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e468	Thank you for this question. I'm glad the representative puts it in place. There are several elements that are important. One relates to the social rights of those who establish their own business, which have improved in recent years. Different schemes have improved – perhaps even better. But what you get is what you pay for. One of the big questions you should be looking at now is probably retirement. So the rights are getting better, and maybe they're going to get even better. The second dimension, which is also important, is that where it can be natural for women to set up activities, it is precisely in establishments supplying to the public sector. It does not make it easier for women to set up their own businesses within, for example: the welfare sector when it is more difficult to provide services to the same sector. In the city we're in now, you have to re-communalise private offers and make it harder for private providers to get in. Who, then, is being punished? Well, it's just the women who want to start their own business and provide good services to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e477	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Iselin Nybø.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e482	Although today is women's day, we need to talk a little bit about men too, and my follow-up question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. It is a cross-political objective to have a labour market in which both women and men can choose freely and choose differently – or equally, as you can see it. It is also an objective that young people growing up today should have role models of both sexes. One of the challenges we face today, in 2017, is that we see that there are few – and too few – men taking jobs in kindergarten and school, especially at the lower levels. This means that to a large extent these are women-dominated jobs, and it makes those kids who grow up today, who go to kindergarten and school, not get role models of both sexes, as we would like them to do. So my question to the Minister of Knowledge is, what will he do to get more men into kindergartens and into school, especially at the lowest levels?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e489	I fully agree with the description from the representative, Mr Nybø, and thank you for letting a man get away with it! It's worth mentioning that even at school, it's going in the right direction, but it's going too slowly, simply. Then the government also comes with a new equality law, which makes it possible to use the same instruments for women in general today. But I think we have to be so honest to say that this is not something that can be solved with a quick fix just through regulation. This is probably about in-depth attitudes to what is perceived as a type of care professionals, where care skills are more important than other things. Now, of course, to be a kindergarten teacher and a kindergarten teacher, a lot of care is needed for children, but it is also a professionally demanding profession. It's not like being a kindergarten teacher or a kindergarten teacher – the one who's supposed to guide the kids in play, the one who's supposed to teach them how to crack the reading code – is not professionally demanding, rather the opposite. I think getting it out can also help to nuance the view of what these professions are.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e496	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e501	I will continue with the Minister of Labour. In many professions that are female-dominated, there are too many who work part-time. They don't have a salary to live on. Ten years ago, a practice was established under which part-time workers may be entitled to take advantage of part-time jobs when they are advertised. A year ago, a Supreme Court judgment changed this practice. My question to the Council of State is: What has the Council of State done to change the law, so that what I perceive is the intention of the Storting, can still be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e508	It is quite right that the Bondevik II administration made a change that would give part-time employees the right to take advantage of major job breaks. Then, as the representative is inside, a verdict was taken in the Supreme Court last year where the Supreme Court says that it is not permitted to do so in the manner that the Dispute Resolution Study has been based on, and that the Stortinget had intended. What the Supreme Court says is that you can demand the advertised position, but you cannot pick percentages of that position, if I have understood the Supreme Court correctly. That case is now on my table. I'll come back and see how we're going to solve this. On the one hand, I am concerned that the Storting's assumption that you should be able to get the entire position is firm, and then we need to see how we should arrange it in a way that meets the Storting's requirements, and that is also within what the Supreme Court has said. I aim to return as soon as possible. It's high on my table. This is a matter that is important to be resolved as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e513	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e520	Another challenge in the field of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, in addition to the gender-based labour market, is discrimination against pregnant women and men in the context of parental leave withdrawals. If we look at the figures from the 2015 Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, they show that 55 pst. by female workers and 22 pst. by male workers, they declare that they experience discrimination related to pregnancy or parental leave. This is alarming. It is alarming that as many women lose opportunities in working life because they have children, because they – as part of family or cohabitation or whatever – choose to have children. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State ensure that discrimination against pregnant women and their parents in the labour market ends?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e528	The fact that you are discriminated against because you are pregnant or because you have to take leave is completely unheard of and completely unacceptable. It is important here that not least the parties, companies, trustees are also active and offensive in the workplace. We know that this is a discussion that is likely to go back in connection with the withdrawal of parental leave. That is often what men would like to use to argue that they are not entitled to leave, namely that the employer, if not against it, gives at least signals that they should not be paid for. The parental leave is discussed, and it should be discussed at most of the parties’ national meetings in the future. Discrimination on the basis of this is, of course, totally unacceptable, but it is primarily a job for working life to ensure that employees are not discriminated against on the basis of withdrawals from maternity leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e537	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e543	Then I want to ask the Minister of Labour to come back, so we can keep talking about March 8. It's true today. We have a social development in Norway where the inequality of power and wealth is increasing. We have a government that, through a number of policy measures, actively overwhelms this development. When the differences increase, we also see that there is a negative for equality, in the field by field. Differing policies are anti-female. When the government distributes large tax cuts to those who have the most from before, we know that among them, there are obviously most men. When the right-hand side advocates a policy for more commercialisation of well-being, we know that very many of those who weaken their pension schemes and their working conditions are women. There's one thing right-wing promised to do something before this election, and there's the big pay gap between women and men. Erna Solberg was very active for several years as an opposition politician in the equal pay debate and promised exactly what the Right has called a pool of skills, to do something about the pay gap between the female-dominated higher education groups and the human-dominated groups. We are still — four years into the Right Government period — far, far from the goal of equal pay, and it is difficult to see some measures as monks. On the Right's website we can still read: «Right-wing proposes the introduction of a pool of competence for the settlements in the public sector.» It is also underlined that this should be a pot of a proper size, ‘outside the normal wage-setting framework’. Where did the pot of equal pay go?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e557	The left side likes to refer to this government as a lag in gender equality policy. It is rejected in full. As I said in my reply to the representative Skei Grande, we see that more women now work full-time, that the pay gap is being reduced, that more women are in senior positions now than before. This has happened during this government and is important progress for equality. When SV talks about the commercialisation of the welfare state, it is smooth to jump over just what opportunities the so-called commercialisation would give women educated in the welfare sector to start their own business and live off it. I think SV should be responsible for how to weaken women's ability to start their own business. The formation of wages and salaries is a responsibility between the parties. This has been addressed in the Employment and Pension Policy Council. It is the responsibility of the parties to provide for the formation of wages and salaries between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e566	It is very strange that the Right now believes that this is a responsibility for the parties, while they did a lot of work a short time ago to have the State intervened with a pot outside the normal wage-fixing framework. Erna Solberg has been talking about this for years, until she became prime minister. In the 2009 election campaign, she explained in an interview with Dagbladet that the pot would be about 3 billion. kr outside the normal limits. As late as December 2015, she said at the Norwegian Nurse Association meeting that she had not given up the idea of a pot. It is obvious that if the Prime Minister has not abandoned it, she has at least not mentioned it to the Minister of Labour, who is in principle opposed to such an increase as the Prime Minister is in favour of. What does the government really mean? Is it relevant with a pot, or is it completely out of date with a pot?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e573	I think skill pool is a glittering suggestion. I worked at Stortinget the time the Right suggested this. The background is precisely that one of the main causes of lower pay is often also lower skills. Providing higher skills among more people will also affect their pay slip. When you increase your skills, for example: Employees in kindergartens will also have an effect on the salary they will receive. Providing higher competences among several groups will help to change wage developments. We have not abandoned this proposal, we believe that it is a good proposal that will affect the wages of more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e582	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e588	I'm a little overreacted to the Minister's answer, that by taking higher education, there's more to pay. The gap is greatest when you have a high salary, and that's a bit of the background that Erna Solberg, in a election campaign after an election campaign, has called for a pool of skills. Even in Dagbladet just before the 2009 elections she said it would be about 3 billion. kr in such a pot, which shall be located outside the specified pot, so that it will not be washed out by negotiations later. Then the question is, why has the government gone from this principle? Now it's so far into the government period that it's almost hard to imagine that one should have time to present this. Was this just a proposal for the election campaign, while when one comes to government, one doesn't go for a pool of skills?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e593	Competence pot is not something you just join in a campaign. The main reasons for differences in pay between women and men are rooted in the sex-shared labour market. It's not like there's a pay gap between women and men in the same job at the same place. Women and men serve the same in general. The main reason why women and men serve differently is that more women work part-time. Therefore, it is so important to do something about the job rates. The second reason is that women work in the public sector, men in the private sector. The labour market is gender-divided. For this reason, it is important that more women enter human-dominated professions and more men in women-dominated, that more women also take leadership positions. Then much of the pay gap will be cleared out. I addressed the Employment and Pension Policy Council just before Christmas that the Stortinget has taken a request decision in connection with the gender equality message. The parties were then quite clear that the formation of wages is their responsibility. We now have a separate sample under this council that looks at these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e600	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e605	I'm going back to the main question that was asked, and link it to what I asked earlier, whether it's believed that commercialisation in public services leads to women losing. We've seen that allowing entrepreneurs, entrepreneurship, within traditional women's homes, gives women the opportunity to have a stronger wage development. After all, we have a story about traditional women's girls who have managed to lift entire sectors through a pay and competence gap. If you take the financial sector, those who worked in a bank 20 years ago were almost just women. Now there's a pretty much more compound group. It's perhaps one of the professions that's changed most in 20 years. Allowing entrepreneurship, allowing innovation and start-ups in the public sector, is important in order to raise those women's revenues. This is done by allowing some to actually start up within that sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e611	That's absolutely correct. As I said in my previous reply to the representative, when you see how you recommunerate in the municipality by municipality, it is precisely women's ability to start their own business within what they have competence and education in, that is weakened. It is obvious that if women can be allowed to start their own business, their own businesses, develop services on the track half where they are good, where they have education, where they have experience, it will be good for women themselves and their ability to make money, and it will also be good for municipalities. It's surprising, I think, that the left-hand side so easily jumps over the fact that, on the one hand, the recommuneration of the women who have good ideas and good solutions for the benefit of the inhabitants. Policy will weaken their opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e616	Dag Terje Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e622	I would like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State so clearly separates the current Prime Minister, former opposition leader, Erna Solberg's proposal that the Stortinget should be involved in wage settlement, i.e. grant its own pot. I am very concerned that since the work environment law of 1935 it has been clear that wage settlement is a relationship between the parties. But then the government is also one of the parties to the settlement. During the previous government equality between shifts and turns was introduced. The fact that those who are going on a tour are going to be better off financially than those who are not going on a tour has to be handled in the ordinary payroll, but it is a matter where the government is a party as an employer. For this reason, I ask the Council of State: What will she do to help ensure that the government as an employer puts equality issues on the agenda, and for example. in terms of shifts and turns, does the employer have a position in the payroll so that one can raise the many women's payrolls that are too poorly paid?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e627	I guess it's happened before that you've been involved in pay settlements. Extra billions have been given, for example: to the teachers not too many years ago, so it happens. But there is no doubt that the formation of wages is the responsibility of the parties. The State responsibilities of the employer are the responsibility of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. I'll be careful to think too much about it. But what the municipal minister has done is, among other things, to present a separate employer strategy. That's the first one on – is it 25 years old? – and at a high time that there has been a separate strategy for national employers’ policies. On the issue of shifts and tours, one of the areas covered by the Working Time Committee was also covered. There was considerable disagreement between the parties on how to resolve that issue. It has been well known for many, many years, and that was also the background for me to put down a sample of the parties to look at the shift/turnus problem from what the Labour Hours Committee came up with. However, when it comes to concrete questions about the government's employer policy, I ask that the questions be addressed to the appropriate government council.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e634	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e640	After nearly three and a half years with the most right-wing government Norway has had in modern times, we see clear results from the policy: Differences in Norway are increasing. Unemployment remains high and continues to rise in some countries, including Greece. in my home state, Vestfold, where the increase has been of 6 pst. the last year. The employment rate has fallen – from 68,5 pst. to 66.8 pst. from 2013 to 2016. Even more serious is the fact that we now see that the workforce will also be reduced. At the same time, we see that the number of beneficiaries of social assistance is increasing. The number of long-term beneficiaries of social assistance is increasing. The un paper went up by 4 pst. from 2013 to 2016. In fact, for young people aged 18 to 29, there is an increase in disability of 37 pst. More kids are outside. Is the Council of State satisfied with developments in Norway under this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e651	Differences in Norway, compared with other countries, are fortunately small, and should be so. I have to arrest the representative for something: what we see is that the registered vacancy goes down, slowly but surely. In twelve of the country's counties, unemployment goes down, and that's good. The central bank’s network report, which came yesterday, shows that optimism is now increasing, that production is higher than expected, and that more enterprises are now expecting it to move in the right direction. So we see flashes of light for the situation on the labour market, and we're all going to be happy for that, because it's been tough thanks to Norwegian companies because of the downfalls in the oil sector. It is a reality that the employment rate is falling. It has been a reality since 2008 at least. One of the reasons is that we get more older. The employment rate is measured in the 15-75 year group. That young people choose education is good, but that more people leave the workforce is serious, and it is important that we prevent it. The government has a number of measures, both in the ordinary budgets and in the action packages, to ensure and create more jobs, to ensure that more people are given the skills and to convert to a new labour market, and to ensure better rights for students to take part in higher education, including: by closing the gap between youth and adult education. We have imposed an activity obligation on young social welfare recipients, and we have our own youth effort in Nav, to mention something. So there are a number of measures that we have taken, precisely to reduce the inequality, to increase the employment rate and to get more people back to work. In a few weeks, we will present a separate case concerning changes to the redundancy scheme, where the aim is just to increase the threshold, make sure that those in the scheme are followed up more closely, and that they return to work more quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e665	It's like we're now seeing central economists saying that now it's serious. It is a very well-known feature that first increases unemployment, which we have warned against and proposed measures against, so we see that the level of employment is falling – it is very dramatic – and then we see that the workforce is being reduced. Then we're in a serious situation. When the government's own report last year, the national accounts, says that employment in the private sector fell last year, despite the fact that we – or the government – have tax reliefs with so-called dynamic effect, we are in a very serious situation. And then I ask the question, what does the government want to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e670	In my previous reply, I outlined a number of measures that we have taken through the ordinary budgets, but also through our action packages. It's about large-scale investment in transport and infrastructure, it's about a large-scale investment in education, industrial research and innovation, and it's about an economic policy that makes more companies more bearable, and it's about being able to keep the wheels moving in the knee we're over. The working party underestimates the incredibly demanding situation that we have been in as a result of the fall in the oil sector. There are few measures that would have improved the situation for the many businesses that are struggling around the country and the beach. Now we see that unemployment goes down slowly, but surely it goes in the right direction in the counties after the counties. We see more positive signs out in the economy. The last is the report from the governor, who came today, which shows that it is moving in the right direction. But there's no reason for us to lean back. There are still many companies that are struggling, we are still in a difficult transition situation, and the government is ready to take even more action. But we now see that the policy is starting to work, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e677	It opens for follow-up questions – first Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e682	Governments have failed, but government policy does not work – that is the reality. State councils have just visited Kautokeino, where one fifth of the kids live below the poverty line, and where the unemployment rate is now above 6pst. In Finnmark, there is a very low proportion of employees working in oil and gas, so the county is not hit by the oil price drop, as we see in the West. Nevertheless, we see that the employment rate in Finnmark is lower than in the rest of the country. We see that the level of employment falls quite dramatically now, and that it falls more in Finnland than in the rest of the country. Then my question is: what concrete measures can we expect from the government towards the people of Kautokeino and Finnmark after the Minister of Labour has been on an inspection?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e690	I had a great trip to Finnmark, and I was told about the challenges the representative mentions – that there are many who have low education, and many who are struggling to get a job. But I also got to meet a Finnmark where you were incredibly offensive about the possibilities that now exist and that they are facing. The oil and gas sector was among the many sites mentioned above as a major opportunity – not just for the county but for the whole region – for more jobs, and the ring-fenced effects of the oil and gas sector on Finnmark are formidable. There is great optimism in the tourism industry. They expect a large growth in tourism — cultural tourism — in the state. The most important thing we can do in the future is to make sure that more companies in the private sector can see the light of day, that they can survive in a demanding market, and that they can make money, so that employees get pay and something to live on. Finnmark showed great opportunities in the private sector, and that's good. Oil and gas and travel were two important industries as they themselves highlighted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e697	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e703	The fact is that the employment rate is falling, the number of beneficiaries of social assistance is rising and the number of young people is rising. As Mr Andersen said, this is worrying. This has to be taken seriously. Despite all the fine statements of the government, we are wrong. Something has its cause in the government, but much has its cause in the EEA Agreement, in the elephant in the room. Uncontrolled labour immigration is at the heart of the EEA Agreement. There is greater unemployment in Norway and lower participation in the labour market. The government chooses to ignore this fact because the government represents a consumer culture — buy cheap, cheap services — rather than a culture based on safe labour income with Norwegian pay and working conditions. Why does the government not want to include the EEA Agreement in its assessments on this fundamental issue of people’s income and society’s future income?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e712	The EEA Agreement is good for Norway. It is good for Norwegian farms. The EU is the main market for many Norwegian enterprises. Norway as an exporting nation is dependent on market access. The EEA Agreement is good for Norwegian enterprises and for Norwegian jobs. The EEA Agreement is also good for Norwegian citizens – through the possibility of cross-border free movement, it has been positive for Norway. Norway has also benefited, at a time when we had a deficit in available labour, from the fact that it has just been possible to obtain labour from the European market. That doesn't mean it's just been rosy. There have also been some challenges, which it is important that we follow closely, among other things. through the measures we have outlined in the Strategy against Crime at Work. But the EEA agreement has been good for Norway in general. It has benefited Norwegian society well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e721	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e735	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 5-8, from the representatives of Odd Omland, Tore Hagebakken, Lise Christoffersen and Ingrid Hegø respectively to the Minister for Industry, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Industry, who has been removed. Question 17, from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister of Defence, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 24, from the representative Per Rune Henriksen to the Minister for Co-ordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is directing him. At the request of the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, the question is moved and answered according to question 10, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e750	Statistik Siv Jensen, who is to answer questions 1 to 3, is not present. However, the representative Dag Terje Andersen and State Councillor Anniken Hauglie are present, and we start with question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e759	My question goes to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs: ‘The Swedish Economic Institute reported a few days ago that Sweden has the strongest labour market in the EU. The 20-64-year age group has the highest employment rate since 1992. In Norway, the arrows point in the opposite direction. The proportion of the working population in 2016 was the lowest in more than 20 years, and employment among young people in 2016 was the lowest in more than 20 years. What will the government do to reverse developments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e768	As Andersen's representative informs us, the trend in the employment rate in Sweden has been good. In recent years, Sweden has implemented several reforms of its social security benefits and has provided significant tax relief, including for employed persons. Labour costs in Sweden continue to be 13 p.m. in 2016. lower than in the Norwegian industry. Positive economic developments in many European countries have contributed to good development in Swedish exports and employment. Oil investments have been a strong driver of the Norwegian economy for decades. Now other industries have to take over. The government’s strategy is to provide a good framework for innovation and innovation so that new activities are created. In addition, we conduct an expansive economic policy that creates many jobs, including: in the construction sector and in the public sector. It has slowed the increase in the number of job vacancies in the most dependent countries on the oil industry and has reduced the number of job vacancies in the majority of the counties. Many of our investments in research and development and in infrastructure contribute to cost savings for businesses and better services for citizens. It strengthens the competitiveness of industry. The social partners contribute positively to the development through moderate wage settlement. I share the commitment of the young. The government has increased its efforts for young people, with particular emphasis on getting more people to complete upper secondary education. The government will propose a direct transition from youth rights to adult law. From this year on, in my area of responsibility, I have put in place a reinforced youth effort, which has only been implemented in the countries of the South-West. A two-year training course in Nav is in place. Activity obligations are in place. Compensation schemes have been simplified and new and better arrangements are in place. We have given the Nav offices greater local freedom of action, so that they can help job seekers to work, with measures adapted to local challenges. We have opened up greater opportunities for temporary employment. To sum up, it is not a simple measure that reverses development, but the government's overall policy. The development of unemployment in recent months is a sign that we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e780	Now the main question was my level of employment, and I find it hard to understand how the Council of State can claim that development there is on the right track. On the contrary, the wrong path is going on in Norway — as opposed to Sweden. Governments were concerned about the situation of private businesses and exports, and that is precisely one of my concerns. We know about the oil price drop, we know about the oil sector's problems because of it, but at the same time it has led us to have a weak dollar rate and a very low interest rate, and a very large proportion of Norwegian business has an advantage of it. But despite the fact that for that part of business, economic conditions – as the Council of State now says – are favourable, with a slightly increasing growth in Europe, our most important market, we see that employment in the private sector is falling. Thus, at a time when the framework conditions are good for the non-oil private sector, private sector employment in national accounts is falling. Isn't that a concern of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e787	As we were in the spontaneous Question Time instead, the employment rate has fallen over many years, at least from 2008, and it has been worrying. At the same time, it is important to see that the employment rate measures employment in the 15-74 age group. We know that the great post-war coals have now passed 70, and it is also legitimate to go into the ranks of pensioners for those who cannot or do not want to work. At the same time, it is important to encourage more older people to stay longer in work, and it is also important to help ensure that older people do not get out of work. But the most important thing we can do to increase the employment rate is to make sure that there are enough jobs, that there is enough job creation, and that the population has the skills required to enter the jobs that are.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e792	Svein Roald Hansen had taken over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e800	That's exactly the point, that it's important to create new jobs. And that's what was my question, which I didn't get an answer to. In fact, when we are in a situation where, because of low dollar rates and low interest rates, it has been very beneficial in Norway to create jobs in the private sector, we experience, as I said, in the government's own national accounts, getting information that employment in the private sector is falling. That's what gives rise to the concerns we raise. We think it could have been done much more in relation to the short-term unemployment, but now it's not just my question. This is about a long-term trend, and she is also the boss Jan L. Andreassen says to Dagbladet on 22 February: «Norway has a problem». So it's a very serious situation that we're now seeing a reduction in the workforce. That's what's going to carry the welfare community forward. It sounds as if everything that happens in Norway is innocent, and everything that happens in Sweden is happy. Should we simply switch to a government that has a little bit more luck?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e807	I stand by what I said in the Question Time instead. It appears that the Workers' Party is in fact underestimating what has happened in the Norwegian economy in recent years as a result of the fall in the oil and gas sector. 50,000 jobs are gone. It goes without saying that replacing the 50,000 with new profitable jobs is a rather demanding task. We see that there is a huge transformation out in Norwegian companies. I'm visiting several of them that go from one extreme to the other in terms of which markets they're trying to reach. I am pleased that the central bank's network report, which has been published today, shows that more companies report better times. They even say that the journey to the South-West has been completed. It's said that productivity and production are greater than what you thought. And most businesses also report significantly better times in the next few months. All in all, we see that the policy is working. Jobs are created, it is transformed on a large scale – and it is also good for the employment rate, which the representative is engaged in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e814	Then the Minister of Finance is in place, and we go back to question No. 1 – and will hopefully be able to follow the list.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e822	I expect the delay to be the result of a busy programme for the Minister of Finance on Women's Day. ‘Norway needs new jobs and the Workers' Party promotes targeted solutions for growth businesses rather than general tax cuts that do not work. In the tax agreement, the Storting asked the government to provide tax incentives for early-stage investments. In the state budget, there was only one mention. The decision was then taken in the fall of the Workers' Party's proposal to have concrete models established. Can the Council of States confirm that this will be presented in the revised national budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e831	Let me first regret that I came too late for the Questionnaire. I'm used to being here in time because the Storting is to be respected, but it was a little bit of traffic. Of course, the government is busy facilitating the start-up and development of new businesses. It is absolutely necessary for us in the years to come to be able to finance a high level of well-being. The government has already implemented several measures for entrepreneurs in the start-up phase. We have prioritised the Seed Fund scheme and set up the grant scheme. In addition, we have increased the appropriations for business-oriented research, such as: User-controlled innovation arena. Tax policy for the government at a lower corporate tax rate and lower taxes on wealth and work has also facilitated new investments and value creation. All of this results. Probably, more businesses have never started than now. It shows that the government’s record effort on knowledge, research and innovation is working. The government is very positive in assessing measures that promote entrepreneurial activity, such as: tax incentives for long-term investments in start-up companies. We signaled this in the 2017 budget, where we also described the arrangements in Sweden and the United Kingdom respectively and evaluated how a Norwegian scheme could possibly be designed. However, several issues were raised that need to be reviewed before a Norwegian scheme can be put in place. At the same time, the government pointed out that the need to stimulate the establishment and development of new businesses is in favour of continuing to assess a tax incentive scheme. In the examination of the budget, the government was asked to come back with completed models and to present it to the Stortinge in the context of the revised national budget. Of course, the government will follow up on that. We will present proposals for one or more models in the revised budget. There are several factors that need to be considered in the context of the introduction of a tax incentive scheme, including: that the scheme is within the framework of the EEA State Aid Code, that the scheme is as simple as possible for both investors, companies and tax authorities, and that conditions are imposed to counteract undesirable adaptation. We will come back to these questions in the revised budget, which we have announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e843	I thank you for that clarification and hope we get some concrete suggestions so we can get started. But it has to worry the Minister of Finance that almost no new jobs are created in the private sector under this government. I think it's nice that one boasts of how many new companies are started, but I wish one was also equally concerned that there were more growth-intensive companies that create more jobs. I must remind the Minister of Finance that in 2016, employment in the private sector fell, for the first time since the financial crisis. I must admit that I am also a little surprised that the government often disagrees with these targeted measures. In the case of tax incentives, it is the Storting that is driving the progress, the pre-seed scheme, which was mentioned, was well pushed through the Left, not the government, and it is the Stortinge that has demanded a clean-up in the incentives of employee ownership. Can one now expect the government to deliver on several of these targeted measures and remove the somewhat ideological blind-track about the general tax cuts that do not work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e848	First of all, the last one is wrong. The government doesn't have any ideological clues, we're concerned with reducing the total tax burden because we know it means something to Norwegian business. What is new tones is to hear a representative from the Workers' Party talk so positively about a concrete proposal for tax reduction. I think that's very good. There is nothing better than that the Workers' Party might support a government proposal to introduce a tax incentive scheme for start-ups. But it's also that more businesses are now starting than at very, very long. I fully agree that it has been challenging that 50 000 jobs have been lost – as a result of the fall in oil prices – in oil and gas-related industries, and we have always stressed the importance of private sector growth in new jobs. This is why, among other things: tax incentives and tax instruments are important. That this recognition is now beginning to reach the Workers' Party, it is pleasing to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e853	Yes, it's fun to be able to enjoy the Minister of Finance, but I have to remind you that the Workers' Party has always been for targeted measures within the tax system that work, unlike this government, which has been more concerned with the general tax cuts that do not work and that do not create new jobs. What worries me is what the Minister of Finance also mentioned in his first reply: other countries are moving ahead and have come much further than Norway. We're falling behind. Sweden and the United Kingdom are mentioned. The United Kingdom has put in place a tax incentive scheme, which has already resulted from it. In Sweden, the social-democratic government has provided reform for risk capital, better option taxation and tax incentives, as some examples. So my question is: is the Minister of Finance concerned that Norwegian startups should be flagged out to the United Kingdom and Sweden, which have now put in place these targeted measures that the UK has requested and which the government has not yet delivered?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e862	As the Workers' Party, the government is engaged in effective action. That economic policy now seems to work, we look at daily reports. Economic trends are turning upside down, growth is on the rise, and there is a significant increase in optimism from the south and the west, which has been over a very difficult period. We're going to enjoy that and not use negative rhetoric, as the Workers' Party always does in this context. Then I would like to remind you that the representative Solberg calls for measures that do not work on the tax side, are measures that industry itself has asked for. Those who wear the shoe have asked us to do something about the corporate tax. We have. They've asked us to do something about the property tax. We have done that, even though the Workers' Party has disagreed with it, and that is because we are committed to getting holes in the discrimination of Norwegian owners of Norwegian companies and foreign owners of Norwegian companies. I believe that has been quite correct. We have close and good dialogue with Norwegian startups, and we have arranged for them to develop in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e873	‘The South-West unemployment rate remained stable in 2016 and was the highest in 20 years. Last year we were able to read in Stavanger Evening magazine that the government was bluffing about the package of measures, and on 28 January we could read in the Sunnmørspost that 'In total we have traced up about SEK 147 million for measures in More and Romsdal - three percent of the total crisis package from the government'. Why does the government not have a stronger, and not least more targeted, South and West action package as proposed by the Labour Party?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e880	The large oil price drop has obviously created major challenges for the Norwegian economy. Unemployment is difficult for those affected by it, and the main objective of the government is to have a safe job to get to. That is why we have actively used fiscal policy to support employment growth. The budget for the current year includes, inter alia: targeted measures to combat unemployment in the South and West and in the most affected sectors. These measures include grants for maintenance in municipalities, health enterprises in the South and the West, covering roads, walking and cycling routes and flood and scaffolding. Together with record low interest rates and a decline in the krona, this active budgetary policy contributes to higher activity in the Norwegian economy. Labour market measures are also an important part of efforts to help unemployed people get back to work more quickly when the economic cycle is weak. Labour market measures were stepped up through 2016 and the high level is continuing this year. The measures increased in particular in the South and West. Last December, 2,400 participants were registered in Rogaland for measures aimed at unemployed people. There's an increase of more than 60 pst. in relation to December of the previous year. In comparison, the level of intervention increased by 20 pst. average for the whole country. The Norwegian economy has evolved better than many fears as the oil price fell. Figures from national accounts show a moderate improvement in the economy. The recorded unemployment rate remained stable over the last year, and figures suggest a slight decrease in unemployment until February. In several countries in the south and west, the number of registered unemployed has fallen in the last few months. This suggests a more stable development of the labour market in these regions. Less aid from the oil industry is a lasting structural change in the mainland economy, which we cannot face only short-term measures. For this reason, in addition to the package of measures, the government has responded with measures for long-term migration and growth. It is the key for Norway to get strengthened out of the demanding shifts we are currently in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e893	We must all glimmer over the flashes of light we see, but at the same time the region is in big trouble. Only in my area, Sunnhordland, has a lost 400–500 jobs in industry – they're just gone. How we understand the situation is decisive for our policies. The Labour Party began early warning of the crisis and put forward measures. Our experience of steering the country through the financial crisis, a crisis that many countries in Europe still are not out of, was fast, powerful and targeted action. I thought the government had underestimated the situation and arrived late. The Minister of Finance said to the Evening Post in May 2015 that the unemployment rate had reached the peak. Does the Minister of Finance think that she spoke precisely to the evening post that time?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e900	It's not just in Sunnhordland that there's been a loss of many jobs. Overall, the fall in oil prices has led to the loss of 50000 jobs related to oil and gas. It takes some time before we can facilitate the creation of an equivalent number of jobs in the private sector, in other industries. As a result, the government has been involved in both short-term measures and in the long-term measures that facilitate the adoption of these investments. Using the financial crisis as a comparison I think is completely wrong. Now we are faced with a lasting structural change in the Norwegian economy, which requires entirely different measures and instruments than in a financial crisis, where the aim was to ensure that it went over as quickly as possible. These measures were widely agreed. I would have liked a more constructive working party in the discussion we are now facing, about a lasting, structural transformation of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e907	The Labour Party has proposed several initiatives in which the public can create activity today, facilitate tomorrow's jobs and take us towards the low-carbon society. For example, in the draft budget, we had now 100 million. kr to initiate several river ferries and also a major effort to prepare CO 2 storage in the North Sea. Both of these would have had a big impact on my homeland, Hordaland. The government has now provided its – so far – last budget, and we have the phase: not only was unemployment in 2016 the highest in 20 years, but it is almost not creating new jobs. One third of the population is out of work. Does the government really think that the government has done everything right to create full employment in Hordaland, or is there any more grips that can now take?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e917	The claim from Rommetveit is wrong. It is not right that new jobs are not created. The truth is that despite the loss of 50,000 jobs in oil and gas-related industries, we have had net growth in employment. I would like it to be even stronger, and I agree that there is reason to worry that the employment rate is lower than it should be. But in the serious situation we're facing, there are many points of light. Now we see that the growth of the economy is taking hold. We hear from the different parts of the country about an increasing optimism. We should be happy about that, and then it indicates that the government has not underestimated the situation, as it was said in the previous question, but rather that we came on the track early and have put forward good, accurate measures and instruments that now make it shine.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e927	‘Central and former government councillor Robert Eriksson writes in his book: ‘Even in a time of narrower economic space, the right is concerned with the property tax. It seems to be the only gratifying thing. The problem is that you’ve never managed to get enough evidence to prove that it’s a good idea to remove it.’ Is the Council of State in agreement with its former Council of State and Central Government member, or does it think it is the falling employment figures that prove that a cut in the wealth tax is working?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e934	The government has pursued a strong economic policy with both short-term and long-term measures that facilitate growth. In the short term, expansionary fiscal policies along with low interest rates and weak crowns contribute to the gradual recovery of growth in the Norwegian economy. Traditional counter-cyclical policies, however, are not the complete answer to the challenges we face. The Norwegian economy has to be converted. Lost jobs in the oil industry cannot be replaced by jobs in the public sector. Our main challenge is to facilitate growth and employment in the private, competitive sector. Job creation in Norway is to be rewarding. Improved competitiveness through the krone price and moderate wage growth make an important contribution to conversion. At the same time, the ability to adapt is enhanced by specific measures to increase growth capacity and productivity. Reforms are being carried out in a wide range of areas, and the Productivity Commission has shown how we can further strengthen this work. The government’s economic policy consists of targeted cyclical measures to remedy the short-term situation and the necessary structural measures to facilitate migration and higher productivity. Tax relief and a better-designed tax system are an important part of structural measures. Lower corporate tax rates, lower taxes on labour, but also lower taxes on wealth are at the heart of the government's tax communication last year, and not least in the Stortingen's tax reform agreement. I therefore do not agree that reduced taxes on wealth is the only thing that works, and it is wrong, as the representative does, to present this as the main content of the government's growth-enhancing policy. For the four-year period 2014-2017 – if you see it as a whole – about 3.5 pst. of the total space for action used for the relief of taxes on wealth. At the same time, the Progress Party also believes that reducing taxes on wealth is a good contribution to a better tax system. We've got a program party. It is also a matter of charging property taxes only to Norwegian company owners. The changes in the wealth tax implemented by the government have reduced the burden — the discrimination between Norwegian and foreign owners of enterprises in Norway — and made it more profitable to save, and we have reduced the biased valuation of various property items. Unlike valuation, Norwegian shareholders’ investments away from business investment and it reduces the overall return on saving. We believe it is important to strengthen Norwegian ownership environments in order to facilitate new activities. It is an important contribution to the success of the transition of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e947	Now, the state council's statements about my statements here must have been taken from previous discussions. I read a quote from her own party member, Robert Eriksson, who can be said to be a little stunned at why it was so important to remove the property tax in such a time as we are inside. Maybe that's the headline we see in the VG today, that it's the country's remotest richest, 1,600 people, who have really shot the golden bird with that policy, and which VG refers to as a tax party for Right-wing voters. Perhaps there are also some in the Progress Party who would have liked the five billion dollars more targeted, more powerful, to stimulate growth in private business, the competitive sector. There are many other ways to do it than to give tax cuts to these extremely wealthy people, but I conclude that Siv Jensen thought it was the best procedure in that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e954	I think everyone has come to realize that the Workers' Party is too much of a wealth tax. I think everyone has come to realize that the Workers' Party believes it is absolutely right that we should discriminate against Norwegian owners of Norwegian companies and non-resident owners of Norwegian companies. I disagree with that, but it's not like the government has prioritised asset tax cuts above everything else. The tax relief granted by the government is 3,5 pst. of the space we've had, and so we've spent more money reducing other parts of the tax burden, both for Norwegian business through corporate taxes and for ordinary people. An average family has received a tax reduction of NOK 8 000 through the changes we have made so far in this period. In addition, we have removed the inheritance fee and made many necessary cleaning-ups in the tax system that will last over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e961	Today, VG states that ordinary people – most people, as Jensen calls them – have received a ten-kron day tax cut as a result of the cuts in property taxes. But the question is how do we spend the money, and I think that's what the Advancement Party Robert Eriksson mentions in this quote. When we have 5 billion. We would probably rather use them – as the representative Magne Rommetveit had in mind here earlier – for a huge investment in the Elferge project, which could mean a new life for many large shipyards in the West. Norway could lead the development of battery technology on ferries. We could create a whole new industry with a great future ahead of us – not just in Norway, but down in Europe, on all the major waterways, etc. Here, Siv Jensen has prioritised giving tax cuts to the most prosperous in Norway before she has chosen to bet on it, because her investment in elves has been puzzled.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e966	It is therefore true that the largest area of action by the government has gone not to tax cuts, but to a wide range of other measures and instruments – to strengthen strongly the investment in transport, to start what the Workers' Party never did, namely to reduce the demand for maintenance, to invest in knowledge, to invest in research, to target tools aimed at business. But in addition, we've found room for absolutely necessary tax cuts. I notice that under the previous red-green government you increased taxes by 6 billion. kr, but one could not make the necessary priorities, bet where there were expectations about it. But the difference between this government and any new government out of the Workers' Party is that we're reducing taxes. The Workers' Party has announced that they are going to choose to increase taxes by at least 15 billion. kr. It gets more expensive for people than the taxes go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e977	‘In Oppland, the project Fjell-Norge, a travel life project that has systematically sought to coordinate measures to create greater traffic in mountain areas, has benefited from regional development funds. This work involves a long-term effort in cooperation with the county, industry and Innovation Norway. The county rapporteur in Oppland writes on 14 November 2016 in Gudbrandsdølen Dagningen that ‘without regional funds that have triggered funds from businesses and from others would not be possible’. Why will the government cut off regional development funds?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e984	The representative refers to Fjell-Norway, which is a sub-regional company for tourism operators in mountain areas. The current Ministry of Enterprise and Trade started work in 2013 with the aim of restructuring travel destination companies in order to make operations more efficient and funding more predictable. The work was carried out in working groups with representatives of the public and private sectors. After the government shift in 2013, the responsibility for implementing the structural process in its entirety was transferred to the tourism industry. In this way, the industry was managed by its reorganisation and it is expected that the industry, through such accountability, will undertake to follow up its work. The structural process is almost complete in the spring of 2017. Travel destination companies are grouped together in larger units and better cooperation between them has been developed. Following the implementation of the structural process, it facilitates the development of a structure adapted to the needs of the tourism industry for services and competences. If companies offer services and competences requested by the tourism industry, it is reasonable to assume that the private sector will contribute to the financing of the operation and activities of the companies. Travel destination companies will have a role in coordinating industry and cooperating with municipalities and county councils. The government prioritises measures such as broad sections of business demand: better roads, increased investment in innovation and research, lower taxes and an improved local economy. The government wants a clearer targeting of regional and district policies. This means that regional and district policy efforts under programme category 13.50 are now targeted to facilitate short-term enterprise conversion and build capacity for long-term enterprise, business and community conversion. It is set at 70.4 million for 2017. SEK to Uppland County Council under programme category 13.50 District and Regional Policy. This is a slight increase compared to 2016. The government facilitates both County and Innovation Norway to have funds that can support under long-term measures of the type of representative mentioned. Upland counties also have administrative responsibility for the five-year programme Value creation and industrial development in mountain areas, which is now in its last year. The aim of the Programme has been to strengthen the basis for business development and mountain value creation through competence and networking, entrepreneurship and industry innovation. Regional cooperation between economic operators is central to the programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1001	I record that the Council of State uses the word 'targeting'. I think the country's state politicians will call it something completely different. Among other things, I can quote the County rapporteur in Oppland, who writes in the same article: ‘We now experience that the role of county councils as civil society developers is narrowed to provide guidance on how business development is going to take place without controlling what this will be like.’ Then I register that the Council of State says there has been a small increase. Well, since this government took over, the regional development funds that have gone to Uppland County have been reduced by a quarter. So there are considerably fewer resources to create jobs in industries that are important to our county, including ours. in the mountain region with tourists, cabins and getting people to us who can spend money and create jobs. It has been important for the state politicians in Oppland. So my question is, how does the Council of State know better about the challenges in Uppland than our own local elected representatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1011	This will be a very narrow approach to the need for economic development in Uppland and in other countries and regions. If we look at regional development funds, it's true that Uppland states have had a reduction of 12 million. DKK in the course of four years – SEK 12 million. The reduction has been — while the municipality of Uppland has similarly increased the appropriations for county roads of almost 40 million. kr. I'm traveling, like the representative, a lot around, even in Uppland County, and it's not like there's a big demand from business for regional development funds. But there is a high demand for increased investment in county roads and highways. That's what the government is putting on. Then I agree that the regional development funds through the county municipalities also have an impact, but there was a need to target them. There are also many examples that the money has not had the effect you wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1018	With respect to reporting, there is almost no job creation under this government. Under this government, fewer jobs are created in total than was created under the Stoltenberg II government every year. In Uppland we have beautiful nature, we have the green carbon, we have forest and soil, we're the country's largest cabin group, we're the second largest county, after Oslo, in commercial beds. With respect to reporting, when you say that this is a ‘closer approach’, it is possible to think about it in Bærum, but in Oppland this is a great industry in which we have great faith in the future. And then it's clear that venture capital is important, because there's a lot of shortages -- at least in our county -- capital to realize ideas that are on the drawing board, there's capital to get new projects up. We are not blessed with very many rich people who have been greatly relieved by this government. We depend on targeted measures, and I have not yet received an answer as to why Jan Tore Sanner knows better than our own state politicians what is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1027	I trust local democracy. I think we're going to facilitate a growth-intensive business, and that's what the government is doing. Unemployment in Uppland, the unemployment rate in Finland, is lower today than it was at the government shift in 2013. We need to go back to 2007-2008-2009 to find the corresponding low leave. The reality is that districts like Uppland and Hedmark are among the states that are doing well, like North Norway. We are betting on District Norway through a large-scale investment in infrastructure. That's what business demand is. And then I agree that there is also a need for some regional development funds, and Uppland states get about 70 million. kr in regional development funds in 2017. It's a slight increase from 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1036	This question, from the representative Odd Omland to the Minister for Industry, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1041	‘Public procurement can be a strong driver of innovation. Goods and services are purchased for over 450 billion. crowns per year. But the government has not been so interested in this innovation potential. Therefore, the size had to be taken into account for innovation into the law on public acquisitions that we dealt with last year. The government also asked the government to assess a risk-relief scheme for innovation in public acquisitions, but we have not seen anything about that. When will the Council of State present such a case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1048	Every year public enterprises use less than 500 billion. NOK for the purchase of goods and services. It is a great potential for innovation. By innovating in purchasing processes, the funds can contribute both to improving the provision of services to citizens, to improving the efficiency of the public sector and to strengthening the value creation of the private sector. In the transition to a low-carbon society to which Norway is going to go, the strengthening provided by the government of the demand for climate and environmental considerations in public acquisitions is also an important driver of innovation. These include: pointed out by the Committee of Experts on Green Competitiveness. In contrast to the Workers' Party, the Government also aims to increase the contribution of private and non-profit actors to public welfare production. It improves services and increases opportunities for innovation cooperation. The Government has therefore reinforced the annual grant to the National Supply Development Programme by more than 9 million. kr. The grant has contributed to the possibility for several public enterprises to carry out innovative public acquisitions. The government is therefore pleased to record at the same time an increasing focus and understanding of the benefits of implementing innovative public acquisitions. The new law, which came into force from the New Year, has introduced innovation partnerships. This is a new procurement procedure that provides room for early dialogue with several suppliers. That procedure will make an important contribution to increasing the level of innovation in public acquisitions. The government wants a good implementation of the new procurement law and to see how it is implemented by the contracting entities. A first innovation partnership pilot project under the scheme Research and development contracts are under way under the auspices of Innovation Norway. We want to include experience from this pilot project in the assessment of any new risk-relief scheme. The Economic and Social Committee has supported the proposal of several consultation bodies in its bill on public procurement to draw up a new large-scale public procurement notice. The Ministry of Industry and Fisheries has started work on the notification, and the planned presentation is spring 2018. The Ministry will follow up on the request decision of the Storting concerning the investigation of a possible risk-absorption scheme for public acquisitions in the context of the submission of this call for proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1066	I must remind the Council of State that it is a majority in the Grand Duchy that has asked for this assessment in a separate proposal. In the debate, the representative Trellevik from the Right was mildly opposed to such a system, a vision I hope the Council of State does not have, although the Right and the Advance Party were opposed. I hear that the Council of State is considering different measures before he wants to decide on such a scheme, but as it looks then, it means that we do not get any assessment during this majorisation period, and that is very regrettable. For there is almost no job creation in the private sector, and the public is an important customer for both the new enterprises and the established ones. At a time of rapid technological change, there are also great opportunities for innovation in many parts of the public sector. Does the Government believe that the government is doing enough to trigger the innovation potential of public acquisitions, and what more will the government possibly do?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1071	The bill put on the table by the government has strengthened the possibility of innovation through public acquisitions. This applies not least within the green shift. A main recommendation from the Green Competitiveness Committee is that innovation through public acquisitions has an important role to play in Norway’s ability to create jobs and values in the green shift. We have strengthened the requirement of this in the law. We have reinstated the appeal procedure, as the Stoltenberg administration has otherwise removed. The experience we are now making with the implementation of the new law and how it is practised will be a good starting point for addressing further questions about stimulating innovation including a possible risk-relief scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1076	Buton points to four barriers to innovation through public acquisitions: limited competence, fear of making mistakes, lack of coordination and weak anchoring in management. In response to new procedures, the Council of State indicated, inter alia: Innovation Partnerships, but a recent Danish Industry study shows that these barriers are highly real. The Danish regulatory framework opened up more innovation-friendly procedures from 1 January 2016, but in 2016, innovation partnerships were only used once and competitive dialogues entered into force 15 times. I quote from Tenders365: ‘This means, according to Dansk Industrie, that the public sector has not yet been able to realise the potential of the new regulatory framework...’ It is unnecessary for Norway to throw away years to learn from the Danes. Risk relief may reduce several of these barriers. How will the State Council monitor the achievement of the objective of more innovative acquisitions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1086	The first Innovation Partnership has been launched. It is Innovation Norway that, together with Diffi — National Programme for Supplier Development — and Stavanger Municipality have started this. A new form of competition is under way that opens up close cooperation between the public and private sectors. Otherwise, there are many barriers to triggering innovation through public acquisitions. This is true in Norway, and in other places it has been tried. The points that Omland draws up are absolutely relevant. Competence is an important question. That is why, in the budgetary agreement, we have invested funds to set up a centre of excellence in Digi to strengthen the competence of public acquisitions. Management anchoring is another. That's one of the reasons why we now put more emphasis on not just crossing the box for thinking, for example. on climate and the environment, but that there should be a management requirement to adopt a strategic approach in public sector procurement practices rather than simply to cross the boxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1095	This question, from the representative of Tore Hagebakken to the Minister for Industry, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Industry, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1100	‘Leder for NCE Raufoss has stated that industrial policy is ‘indistinct and unclear’. The staging period is coming to an end, and the Stortinget has not yet received an industrial notification. When can we expect the Industry Communication and can the Council promise new and binding measures for new and secure jobs in the Communication?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1107	The government has an offensive and good business and industrial policy. It is a targeted policy to contribute to sustainable value creation, conversion and organisation of profitable jobs across the country. The government will take care of and develop the industry’s competitive advantage. To achieve that, we need an industry that is adaptable, innovative and competitive. The government has invested heavily in research and innovation, and we are facilitating green competitiveness. We have recently put forward a marine strategy to trigger the growth potential of marine industries, and it can provide new opportunities for Norwegian industry. We have implemented business-promoting tax incentives that stimulate investment and innovation. We reduce taxes in line with Storting's agreement on tax reform, and not least we continue to invest in transport, we build more road and track, and we focus on business simplification. We do this because there are many measures that are needed to secure Norway for the future in the transition we are undergoing. The government is in the final phase of the industrial message work. It will be presented to the Stortinget in the near future and in time for the Stortinget to address the announcement in spring 2017. In the context of the communication, we have had broad and ongoing contact with industry and business environments throughout the country, organisations, research and development environments and the instrumentation. Several recording conferences have been held, among others: climate and environmental challenges and green shifts, industrial skills challenges and opportunities for the future of marine industries. In August 2016, the Minister of Industry met the industry at Raufoss. Central themes such as digitisation, automation, new technologies and how strong industrial environments such as the Raufoss industry can be a driving force for change. We've already followed up. In the context of the 2017 state budget, there is a system for new testing centres for industry, so-called catapult centres, and we have strengthened the clustering effort to strengthen efforts for industrial conversion. The government looks forward to the Storting's handling of the industrial communication and to a good and constructive debate on how best to facilitate a future-oriented Norwegian industry that contributes to profitable jobs and sustainable value creation and the basis for our well-being across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1122	In any case, there must be something in the government's policy that does not work when, under the Stoltenberg II Government, six times as many jobs were created in the private sector as under the Right Party Government now. In 2016, employment in the private sector fell for the first time since the financial crisis. There is almost no job creation under this government. The government's repeated response has been, and is, tax cut, but yet we see that the investment level is low. Never before have a smaller proportion of our investments found the way out to the companies, we could read in the Class Battle on February 24. In order to remedy this, the Workers' Party has inter alia: called for a loan guarantee scheme for the mainland industry. Why has the government not followed up this proposal? And how does the government think it's going to speed up investment in industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1129	We are concerned that there is a need for more capital, and there is a need for stronger Norwegian ownership environments that have the opportunity to invest in Norwegian jobs, and the Workers' Party is welcome to change its view of the property tax in order to get it to. I cannot now address what concrete measures we want to promote in the Industry Communication, but I can say that the main device is just how we can create growth and jobs. It seems that the Workers' Party has forgotten that we have suffered a severe oil price drop and that we must adapt to the reality that we must also convert Norway into a low-carbon society. It means big changes, but we already see that our policy is working. Despite reduced investment in the petroleum sector, according to Nav, unemployment has decreased from January 2016 to January 2017. Yesterday, the news reported that Norway’s Bank’s regional networks of enterprises report that growth is now stronger than in three years, suggesting improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1134	Firstly, it is good that we are finally about to get an industry message, because it is really high time. But there'll be a lot of words from this government. The Stoltenberg government, on the other hand, presented a conversion message that pointed to clear bet areas in 2013, but it drew the Right-Fremskritsparte government. Industry has long called for better testing and piloting schemes, and the tool made a ready-to-use proposal early in 2015. The Storting asked for an industry message the same year, but yet we have seen very little from the government. It doesn't exactly shine out of action, to say it mildly. The councils mentioned the catapult bet. I don't know to what extent it's defined as a bet. There was only 50 million in the budget. kr, but I ask the Council of State: does the Council of State really believe that this represents a significant investment in industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1141	This government has vigorously strengthened research and innovation efforts. This concerns the efforts made by the Research Council, the efforts made by Innovation Norway, the efforts made by Enova, the establishment of Renewable, which we are working on, the schemes such as TAX FUNN, etc. It is not a single scheme and solution that will ensure Norway’s welfare for the future when the oil and gas are no longer the driving force in the Norwegian economy. There is a need for a broad commitment. We have many environments that benefit from our innovation and technology efforts and that provide us with a good basis for the future. The world's leading marine industries offer great opportunities for industry. We have a process and metal industry that has continuously streamlined production, and for which there is good reason for hope for the future, and the Industry Communication will demonstrate how we have an active policy to support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1150	This question, from the representative Lise Christoffersen to the Minister for Industry, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Industry, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1155	‘The Right Party government talks a lot about the need for conversion, but has few results to point to. Founding aid is good, but all experience shows that conversion must be driven primarily by heavier, established business environments, including oil-related activities. Of course, the Western world gets a lot of attention, but also my home country, Buskerud, has a very oil-related industry. The Kongsberg Group has taken the initiative to set up a top industrial centre. Will the Council of State contribute to the rapid realization of such a centre on Kongsberg?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1162	The top industry centre has put digital transformation on the agenda and has mobilised a high level of involvement in business. The Minister of Industry has followed closely the work of the top industrial centre, we have requested information, and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries has contributed 800 000 kroner to the financing of the project. Stakeholders behind the initiative have now presented an exciting prospectus and are working on concreteisation and funding. The government has been asked to return to the Stortinget in the revised national budget 2017 assessing the establishment of a top industrial centre. As a basis for the assessment, we are now looking at the needs of the planned centre, the services to be provided and the role of the country, if any. It is important to cooperate widely and draw on the existing resources and competences. It is true that much migration is driven by heavier, established business environments, including oil-related activities. I believe that the developments we see, with increasing automation, involve new opportunities for Norwegian industry, especially if there is good cooperation between the major locomotives, the good trade unions and the many small players, across traditional industries and industries. That is why I am pleased that so many of the large, leading companies with Norwegian anchoring have joined forces on this initiative to create a strategic arena where Norwegian industry gathers, where competence on the possibilities of increasing digitisation can be further developed and shared. I think a Norwegian top industrial centre, or Digital Norway, as it's now called, can help trigger exciting new industrial opportunities in the future. I would like to stress that this is a business-driven initiative, and business should be in the driver's seat. I'm determined that the state will also participate, and we now have a dialogue with Digital Norway about this. In what way, if any, the State will contribute further, we will come back to the revised national budget, as the Stortinget has asked the Minister of Industry to do. Digital Norway isn't even done with its preproject. For the sake of order, I would like to add, as it is addressed in the question, that the State has not been presented with a question of location, and that is why there is nothing that the State has taken a decision on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1177	I thank you for your answer. Then it might be Christmas Eve for Kongsberg in connection with RNB. But let me turn the question a little differently: the first Lindorff analysis in 2017 gives cause for concern. Few new jobs are created in business, and little indicates that 2017 will be different. The Kongsberg environment accounts for a significant share of the value creation in Buskerud, but many jobs have been lost. The Right-Fremskritsparte government rejected the status of the Global Centre of Expertise because the Kongsberg cluster is cross-sectoral. It has to be the record bomb of the time and it shows that the government is just talking about conversion, but it's not elementary understanding of what it's about. Sales in Kongsberg Group show the same thing. Now the Storting put it on hold, so the next question is: Has the Right-Fremskritspart-regierung after the ownership message, popularly called the sales message, made any new thoughts about how the state ownership of the Kongsberg Group can be actively used for conversion and new jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1184	The ownership message provided a good basis for the management of state ownership, and on the basis of the Storting's treatment of it, we follow up that message – a professional and tidy ownership. What is at the heart of the question here is how to use the digital transition to create skills development, jobs and growth in Norway, including in Kongsberg. We welcome the initiative on Digital Norway. We're also going to refer to digital transformation as part of the industry message. There we will also tell how we believe that business and innovation policy should be structured, precisely to meet the trends we see in the digital field, where Kongsberg is a very important environment for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1191	As the representative Tore Hagebakken was also in: The Right-Fremskritsparti-regieringen drew our offensive business message focusing on special needs in different industries, towards intimate advice from the business community itself. Instead, the choice was to highlight business neutrality as a mantra and so-called conversion-promoting tax haven. Now new figures from the Ministry of Finance show that the 1,600 people with 100 million. kr or more in fortune has received more than half a million kronor in reliefs per year. Then the Lindorff report – as I said – shows that there have been no results in investing in business, with more jobs. Nor does the Right-Fremskrit party government itself have clear evidence. Instead, it is claimed that the Labour Party underestimates the situation in the economy. I want to return that statement and say that it might be the government that does it. But at the end of the day, the Council of State might think of reflecting on whether one could get a better and faster counting for the 25 billion. the crowns of tax cuts by investing some of them in a top industrial centre related to the high tech environment at Kongsberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1198	We come back to the issue of top industrial centres in the revised national budget. That's what the Stortinget has asked for, and that's what the Minister of Industry is working on. We are working on general measures, which are important to create more investment in Norway. The Labour Party has also been involved in a tax reform that has it as a core objective, and that must mean that, for example, we see that. corporation tax has an impact on the possibility of investing in profitable jobs in Norway. Otherwise, it is probably also that business neutrality was last taken into use by a Norwegian government when Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen was Minister of Finance, so there is no guiding principle for this government. We have also presented strategies and actions aimed at certain sectors with opportunities for Norway, not least the maritime strategy, as the government recently presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1210	This question, from the representative of Ingrid Heggø to the Minister for Industry, will also be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Industry, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1215	‘Travel life is going well, but industry is calling for policy. In the newspaper we could read that the travel life director in Stryke reacted with “deep disappointment” to the news that the travel life message was again delayed. When the message arrives, and how will the Right-Forward Party government facilitate that the growth of travel also brings new jobs throughout the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1222	It is quite right, as the representative Heggø says, that Norwegian travel is going well. The fourth year was probably a record year in terms of the number of visitors, after strong growth in 2015 as well. Demand for Norwegian tourism products increases during both the winter and summer seasons. The tourism industry has focused on promoting product development, cooperation and industrial competence. It has produced good results. The government facilitates increased value creation in the tourism industry, primarily by establishing good framework conditions for business activities. The government will continue its efforts to reduce taxes in line with the Storting agreement on tax reform. It helps to ease the tax burden on many Norwegian companies and to free up capital for investment, innovation and product development. The removal of the inheritance fee includes, inter alia: helped to facilitate generational shifts in family-run enterprises, which is important for many travel-life actors. The fact that we have lowered the rate of property taxes, increased the base rate and introduced more even valuation also benefits travel businesses. The government continues its great commitment to commerce and builds more road and track. We are working to make the whole of Norway easily accessible to both Norwegian and foreign tourists. The increasing number of public communication with industry via digital channels makes everyday life easier for the many small and medium-sized enterprises in the tourism industry. At the same time, the tourism industry has some challenges that make it possible for us to have targeted measures for this industry. Through Innovation Norway, we contribute 231.5 million in 2017. kr for travel life purposes. We also provide our own resources for travel research. The government will present a major report on the government’s policy on the tourism industry in good time before Easter, so that the Storting can deal with the notification during the spring 2017 session. In the Communication, we will explain in more detail the government's overall policy on the tourism industry. The Communication will also describe recent developments in travel life and outline opportunities and challenges facing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1241	"Good framework conditions", said the Council of State. One of three hotels goes with loss, he forgot to bring it. The Council of State also did not take into account the fact that during the night, the tourism industry received a flight seat fee and increased VAT rates, so I do not think the industry itself would agree that there is a good and good framework conditions Right-wing party government has given them. There has been growth in industry in spite of government policy, not because of government policy. Think of a lifting the travel industry could actually get, with a government that will also create jobs within the private, a worker party government that makes words into action! Broadband bet is absent from the government's bet. I ask again: how will they take action, and what measures will they take to create year-round jobs in the tourism industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1246	Now I'm not going to prejudge the big message, it'll come soon as I said. It's taken some time to work it out, and it's because the travel industry is a complex industry. It is affected by the work and instruments of many departments across the responsibilities of many departments. It also means that a majority of departments have participated in the design of the communication, and that means that we have laid the basis for an offensive communication, which will really address the needs of the industry and build on the successes that are already there to make the tourism industry even bigger and stronger. However, what concrete action will be taken when the notification comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1251	Good framework conditions – I have already mentioned this with a seat charge, increased VAT rates overnight and also cut off the marketing funds and missing broadband bets from the government. Broadband is, in fact, crucial for the growth of hotel industry. The government of Stoltenberg increases our marketing resources from 100 million to 270 million. kr. Now I also see that there are proposals from the Right in particular. Sogn and Fjordane and Buskerud say that the Right should start to conduct labour party policies in the field of travel life, and proposals have been made for the country meeting in the Right to increase marketable media. Will the Council of State support this proposal at the Right's national meeting, so that we can get growth and jobs in the whole country also within this important industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1256	What the Minister of Economic Affairs will support as a delegate to the National Council of the Right, her deputy here today will not have any views on. But that the Minister of Industry – and her colleague, the Minister for Climate and Environment – is very concerned about travel and a sustainable tourism industry that will provide good framework conditions, there should be no doubt about that. I reserve the right to be presented as proposing party parties in the Right and promoting labour party policy. If the Labour Party wants to make our tax policy, which is favourable to business and travel, also to its own, it is welcome to do so, but our policy provides for both good framework conditions for those who run small, medium-sized and larger businesses in travel life, and concrete, targeted measures, to which we come back in the Travel Life Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1264	The question to the Minister for Climate and Environment is: ‘Rema 1000 refuses to sell the Easter eggs of Freia this year because Mondelez, the owner of Freia, does not remove the palm oil from the product. Int. [[2015-2016]] 294 S Nature of Life - Norwegian Action Plan for Natural Diversity, issued on 19 May 2016, states that the Energy and Environment Committee considers it important that the regulations ‘require public procurement not to contribute to the deforestation of rainforest’. A number of commodities can destroy the rain forest, such as palm oil, soya, paper and furniture. What has the government done to exclude public procurement of palm oil and other products that destroy rainforest?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1273	Most of the raw materials that can be associated with deforestation are imported from the EU and are made by a small number of enterprises in food, feed, cosmetics, detergents, etc. The Norwegian food industry has undertaken to ensure that all palm oil imported into Norway is environmentally certified and traceable by 2018. All soya imported into Norway for feed use is environmentally certified. The environmental aspects of cocoa and cocoa products imported into Norway have been addressed by certification schemes for more sustainable production. In the case of paper, wood and furniture, the EU Timber Regulation and EU cooperation with producer countries are covered for the legal production and export of timber to the EU. Palm oil, soya and cocoa in imported finished products are more difficult to understand, stressing the importance of cooperation with the main importing countries in the European market. The government has therefore joined Norway in the so-called Amsterdam Declarations on deforestation-free supply chains, just to achieve such cooperation. In addition, we cooperate with important producer countries through the government's climate and forest initiatives. The new public procurement legislation, which came into force from the New Year, places greater emphasis on the public procurement environment and emphasises that public purchasers should have a strategic approach, a green plan, to their public procurement. This means that it is now easier for public purchasers to avoid products linked to deforestation, for example: by requiring that products or services purchased comply with specific labelling or certification schemes. Such schemes do not necessarily provide adequate guarantees at present for deforestation-free production or supply chains. However, standards are under continuous development, not least because many companies have taken on commitments to remove deforestation from their supply chains by 2020. It reiterates the importance of broad international cooperation to raise environmental standards. In 2014, Norway took the initiative in the New York Declaration on Forests. A large number of indigenous peoples, private companies and authorities committed themselves there to halve deforestation in tropical countries by 2020 and to halt all deforestation by 2030. The UN Sustainable Development Goal includes equivalent formulations. It is in Norwegian interest that the EU in general and the individual European countries are more committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from forests and land use in developing countries. The Amsterdam declarations constitute a particularly important step in this respect. They focus on sustainable supply chains for palm oil to the European market by 2020 and on removing deforestation from the supply chains of other raw materials that can be linked to deforestation, such as soya and cocoa. The Agricultural Deforestation Fund, launched by the government in Davos earlier this year, can help to reduce the risk to companies and authorities in developing countries that want to convert into more sustainable production. It is thus the sum of private sector measures, public procurement policies and international cooperation to raise environmental standards to remove deforestation from products.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1293	Thanks for a thorough response with many measures, confirming that the Council of State takes this issue seriously. That's encouraging. State councils spent a little time on the problem of tracing raw materials. So there's a consensus that being able to trace raw materials back to their place of origin is a prerequisite for assessing sustainability. Now it is in practice that supply chains often do not facilitate it. For example, the so-called ‘book and claim’ system for palm oil, which is one of the subcategories of the certification system Roundable on Sustainable Palm Oil, RSPO, lacks such traceability. The same applies in part to beef and timber. Does the Council of State consider that ensuring the traceability of goods and products purchased is adequately ensured in the public procurement legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1302	It is absolutely right that work on developing traceability and systems for it is not in port. More efforts are needed, and more international cooperation is needed. Not least in the context of our international forestry effort, we are engaged in dialogue between national, regional and local authorities and business actors to strengthen efforts here. As far as public procurement legislation is concerned, it cannot in itself ensure that traceability is improved, but the important thing is that the law and regulations are designed in such a way that it is possible to opt out of deforestation products and to favour products certified under the labelling schemes, which are becoming increasingly stringent, even if they are not yet perfect.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1309	On June 9, 2016, a while after the decision to raise the issue, Dagbladet wrote that: ‘Norway, as the first country in the world, shall undertake zero consumption of goods linked to the destruction of rainforest’. The Huffington Post wrote: Breaking ground to save the rainforest, when the United Nations Climate Panel announced Norway’s obligations, and The Independent called this amendment ‘a game-changer’. The government’s Green Competitiveness Expert Committee recently recommended that public ‘buying power must be used to accelerate the green shift’. And according to the Purchases Act, «public procurement» shall contribute to reducing harmful environmental impacts and promoting green solutions. However, there is currently no overview of the extent to which environmental requirements are imposed for the 500 billion. kr for which public purchases are made annually. How will the government measure and report that public procurement contributes to reducing harmful environmental impacts and promoting climate-friendly solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1323	I believe that the amendment that just came into force on 1 January provides the basis for a much more active public policy to use public purchasing power to stimulate greener solutions. What we did there was not just to demand that the climate and the environment be considered in individual public procurement, but we assume that each public procurement should have a plan, to have a well-thought-out overall strategy on how to contribute to climate and environmental impacts. And then we did something else important, we reinstated the appeal in public acquisitions, which was removed by the previous government. It also strengthens procurement rules for climate and the environment. And I think there are many enough actors who are concerned about this that there will be visibility and will be debate if this fails, rather than that we should establish some new public measurement systems for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1337	‘The size has led to a rapid increase in the share of biofuels in the Norwegian fleet. Biofuel investment can provide many new jobs in this country. However, it requires long-term, predictable framework conditions and a clear commitment to biofuel production in Norway. In the class struggle on 1 March we can read that ‘the industry has no plans to escalate production’. Why does the government fail to facilitate new jobs in the production of biofuels in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1344	Biofuels are important to reduce emissions from the transport sector in the short term. In the longer term, electrification will be the solution for the passenger car segment. However, biofuels will be necessary in other transport segments, such as heavy transport, aviation and shipping, somewhat longer. Another background for promoting biofuels for road transport is obligations under EEA law, through the Renewable Directive and the Fuel Quality Directive. Norway is in a position to over-comply with the requirements of these Directives, in particular as a result of electrification, but also through the use of biofuels. I think there are two things that are particularly important through the effort we now have on biofuels. One is that we ensure that we use biofuels with real climate effects, both nationally and globally. The second is that the investment ensures Norwegian business development and green competitiveness. The placing on the market requirement for biofuels was introduced in 2009 and has been gradually stepped up since, but the escalation has so far been marked by unforeseeableness and short-termity. We conducted a consultation round last summer in connection with the increase of the sales requirement to 7 pst., which took effect on 1 January of this year. One of the most important inputs from the industry was that biofuel policy needs to become more predictable. I fully understand that business is refusing to invest billions of dollars in an industry where the framework conditions change from year to year. We have now taken the initiative to do something about this by aiming to establish the regulatory level of the turnover requirement by 2020 already today. This is how we ensure predictability for business, and we give room for investment – something that has not been the case before, according to the industry itself. Through the ambitious escalation plan, we give the industry a clear and clear signal that it is investing in biofuels in Norway. However, it has been a short time since the adoption of the plan, and the regulatory change has not yet taken place. It is therefore natural that there are currently no concrete plans for investment from the industry. The government's draft budget for 2017 includes a chapter on the biofuel supply situation. This shows that there are no concrete investment plans that will deliver significant quantities of Norwegian biofuel production by 2020. However, there are plans that can be expected to be realised only after 2020. The progress we are talking about towards 2020 is relatively significant, and I therefore believe it is important to establish a good decision-making basis for further policy-making. There are many different considerations that need to be taken in the case of biofuels, and therefore the Environment Directorate is now carrying out an impact assessment of the escalation and the regulation is to be consulted when it is ready. I believe that the commitment we are now making to biofuels in the transport sector provides better and more predictable conditions for the development of Norwegian business, green jobs and Norwegian green competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1365	Thanks for the answer. I share the opinion of the Council of State that it is difficult to enter into large, heavy investments in biofuel consumption and production in Norway, not least when a reader of today's Evening Post, where the Council of State itself states that it is not certain that the biofuel bet will be carried out. It is quite obvious that there is a big problem for those who are going to invest. It is not the first time that there has been uncertainty about the draft budget that has emerged in recent budgetary negotiations and that has been involved in perhaps resolving a group there and then, but that turns out to be more demanding in retrospect. But with today's signals from the Council of State in the Evening Post, where you can read it there that the biofuel bet is now being put on hold, it is time to ask the Council of State whether he is still standing by a 20 pst integration requirement. shall apply for 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1374	I thank you for the question, also because it gives me the opportunity to clarify, elsewhere than on Twitter, that the headline in today's newspapers was misleading, and if you read what I've actually said, it's not coverage for the headlines in several Norwegian newspapers. What is the case is that we have a decision in Stortinget on an escalation plan. The basis for that plan is now, as it should be, ensured in the Environment Directorate. We have decided that the plan of escalation should be laid down and that regulation should be consulted. In such a consultation process, it is right and proper that those heard, for example: whether the decision itself states whether market developments, availability of biofuels and price scenarios need to be taken into account. This does not preclude adjustments and adjustments from being made to the proposal for a speed-up plan. But there we are not yet, this should be consulted. But the ambition of 20 pst. by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1379	I don't think one gets safer at investing after hearing the answer from the government council now. But for the Workers' Party, we originally had a slightly slower blending and phase-in of biofuels. We had ambition of 10 pst. in 2020, but we had a little bit tougher demands for 2025, i.e. 25 pst. and a control station in 2022, just to support Norwegian investment and attract capital in order to extract biomass, such as: twigs, end-of-life waste, etc., which are useful and important in the context of sustainable biofuel production, while increasing volume will reduce price. I allow myself to ask again, to try to get the doubt away. I assume that one then meets the 20 pst requirement. blending in 2020. But what will the Council of State do now to facilitate Norwegian production of sustainable biofuels to become more attractive to capital that will invest in just sustainable biofuel production? And then all the unclear signals have to go away, if not every penny will disappear from this kind of investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1386	The first and most important thing I want to do as soon as we have received the quality assurance from the Environment Directorate and prepare the regulation for the escalation plan is to ask the actors themselves to come up with their views on what they think they should do, and what they think is realistic in terms of price, access and scenarios for Norwegian production. It is important, and I think it must be reassuring for the industry to know that they will be heard, that they know that their views will be listened to. It's part of creating predictability, it's part of helping everyone to come along, which some people like to formulate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1391	Then we go to question 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1400	This issue, from the representative Per Rune Henriksen to the Minister for Co-ordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1405	‘Important framework conditions for Norwegian industry are laid down in the EU. This year, a number of EU decisions will be taken to help determine the future of the Norwegian power-intensive industry. Thousands of industrial workplaces in Hordaland depend on good and predictable framework conditions. Can the Council of State explain how the government is working towards the EU in order to safeguard the interests of Norwegian industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1412	The representative of Henriksen is quite right in saying that EU legislation is important for the framework conditions for Norwegian industry. For power-intensive industries in particular, the European quota system is of great importance. The quota system is central to transforming Europe into a low-carbon society. I would like to draw attention to the importance of Norway being an integral part of this system. The quota system ensures a level playing field within Europe, taking into account the risk of European businesses moving to countries with weaker climate policies – so-called carbon leakage. The risk of carbon leakage is counteracted both by a significant free allocation of climate allowances and by opening up countries to compensate for increased power price activities resulting from the effectiveness of the allowance system. Work on revising the allowance system for the post-2020 period is now in its final stages. The government has followed this legislative development work closely. We are actively participating in relevant forums – this is the case in expert meetings at the work of the Commission, in bilateral meetings at political level with those at the heart of regulatory development on the EU side, both through written input to the European Commission and to the Council, and not least the Norwegian participation in the Green Growth Group, which is the association of the most ambitious countries in European climate policy. The fact that we have worked in Norway from the government has given us an additional opportunity to interact with the ambitious EU Member States. In mid-February, we also sent a letter to EU countries specifically on the CO2 compensation scheme, and the government has asked the European Commission to assess whether the nickel industry should be included in the list of eligible sectors during the current support period. I would also like to say that in the spring of 2015, the Ministry of Climate and Environment decided on complaints about CO2 compensation in the industry's favour. So this is an area that's occupying us, and that we're following closely. Our main concern is a well-functioning quota system. What we have done from Norway is to support measures to increase the effectiveness of the quota system, including: through a higher and more stable price signal. At the same time, we have emphasised that industry needs predictability. In the case of anti-carbon leakage measures, e.g.: allocation of free allowances and compensation for increased power prices, we have pointed out that instruments to reduce the risk of carbon leakage are important, but that the aid must be channelled to those businesses that need it the most. We believe that the power-intensive industry that sells export products is such a sector, and we have highlighted that sector separately. In the case of CO2 compensation, the government has indicated that after 2020 the scheme must provide a national margin for action as regards access to compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1423	Thanks for the answer. What makes the Workers' Party concerned about this is that it is an important matter for the Norwegian industry, when you think about the CO2 compensation scheme. It is also the case that the development of the process has now resulted in the EU Parliament adopting a mechanism to gradually reduce the possibility of providing CO2 compensation. What is my question is largely about what the Norwegian Government has signaled through its channels, both to Parliament and to other parts of the EU apparatus about the Norwegian position. Does the Norwegian Government support the Commission's starting point, which is that we are going to continue the current system, or is it supporting the European Parliament's system, which is aimed at gradually reducing the CO2 compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1430	The discussion held in Parliament has been partly about a gradual reduction in the permitted level of aid and partly about establishing a kind of European centralised system for CO2 compensation. The last thing we've been clear about is that we don't see as desirable, we think there must be a national space for action here. In this case, with a gradual reduction in the permitted level of aid, there is nothing new. It follows from the guidelines of the European Commission. It has been implemented in the Norwegian scheme adopted by the Workers’ Party, when the Workers’ Party was put into government in 2013, so the path with a gradual reduction in the permitted level of aid is in today’s system, and any continuation of it will be a continuation of today’s legislation. But this is not the main issue now, because this is something that will be clarified in legislation under the quota system decision. We have now been concerned about what is now on the agenda of Parliament and the Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1435	This is a matter of great concern both in industry and in the trade movement around Europe — IndustryALL — in which the European trade union movement has been involved. I interpret the response from the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment as saying that Norway has not taken a position on the difference between the Commission’s proposal and what is now available from the European Parliament into the further discussions in the EU system. But I would strongly urge the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment to take the position that the Commission has taken, and to argue that this is a good arrangement for the Norwegian industry based on the signals we have received from the industry. Can the Minister for the Environment and Climate Change agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1440	With regard to the question of dwindling, I am not aware that the Commission has yet expressed its opinion on this issue. It is not inconceivable that the Commission will be able to believe that there should be a further downturn, but Parliament has thus been involved in this. Furthermore, the Council has not yet explicitly stated on the continuation of the phasing-out after 2020. It is simply because this is not a topic you need to decide on now. We have now been most concerned with ensuring national action spaces for the continuation of national CO2 compensation schemes, and there we have good hope that we will achieve. There we stand with several countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1445	Then we go back to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1454	‘Name numbers indicating that the increase in cash support has led more women, and especially women with migrant backgrounds, to opt for cash support instead of working, have caused more people to reconsider the scheme. The government was actually going to deliver a gender equality assessment of the state budget in its entirety in the autumn, but did not do as the Stortinget had requested. If, in the light of the new Nav figures, the Council of State were to give an equality assessment of the cash support, what would it look like?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1461	Cash support gives families of children the freedom to choose the care they think is best for their children, and we know that children and families are different and have different needs and desires. Freedom of choice for families with young children is important to the government. The Children's Family Committee, led by Anne Lise Ellingsetter, presented its report on Monday. They have gone through the public service offer and the transfer arrangements to families with children under 18 years of age, and they propose to wind up the cash support scheme. The committee has provided a comprehensive investigation that we are now going to go through thoroughly, and I am taking those proposals further. In addition, we know that the Brochmann II Committee has looked at the impact of immigration and has proposed to phase out the cash support scheme. The government is concerned that both men and women should participate in the labour market and that women should have the same opportunities as men in the labour market. We know that the cash support has been shown to provide some challenges, especially for immigrant women's professional participation, and the cash support system makes it easier to be at home with children rather than having them in kindergarten and even going to work. This is a choice that parents should have, but kindergarten is a particularly important arena for Norwegian education and integration. The use of cash support varies between groups and families. Families with a migrant background have a higher proportion of recipients than the population as a whole. Figures from the SSB also show that on 1 September 2015 cash support was paid for 45 pst. of the children with a migrant background, while cash support for 16 p.m. was paid. of the other children. Social security benefits should facilitate the entry of immigrants into work and activity, and therefore the government has proposed the introduction of a five-year residence requirement for the right to cash support for immigrants from non-EEA countries. This proposal strikes a good balance between freedom of choice for young children’s parents and the integration of immigrants. As regards the issue of gender equality assessment of the State budget, we will follow up the request decision of the Stortinget in connection with the submission of the State budget for 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1477	I thank you for your answer. Governments are happy to talk about freedom of choice. At the same time, we know that the so-called freedom of choice of the Right Party government has led fathers to take shorter paperwork, and that more immigrant women choose cash instead of trying out jobs, as statistics have also shown us. Four out of ten immigrant women are out of work, and cash support helps to keep them out. Then I hear that the Council of State is unsure whether this is something we have to live with because the individual family has chosen it for themselves. or is the Council of State still very concerned that cash support will contribute to freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1486	Freedom of choice is important for this government. We know that families are different, and that they can have the opportunity to make different choices is important to the government. We see that from an integration perspective, cash support can be an obstacle, especially for immigrant women, because we know that it is important that they get income and get into work, and that cash support can be an obstacle to that. Nor is it automatic that removing cash support leads to more people getting into work, but we also need to recognise that the integration challenges are the main reason why the cash support debate is constantly coming up, and it will also be discussed at most national meetings this spring. I would also like to point out that if the cash support had been such an integration issue, I would remind the representative that the Workers' Party was in a majority government for eight years and managed well with a cash support that they also increased to NOK 5000 per child per month.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1495	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. A great many of those who receive cash support get it while they wait for the kid to fit in the nursery. After the Right and Advance Party took over the government offices, the pace of kindergarten expansion has greatly slowed down. Kindergarten queues have grown. Does the Council agree that prioritising more kindergartens would be a better way of giving children's families greater freedom of choice, while giving them more equality?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1502	I am glad that the government has invested heavily in kindergartens this period. The introduction of free core time for 3-, 4- and 5-year-olds across the country has led to more children needing it getting into kindergarten. The fact that we have lowered the limit on payment for those with lower incomes has led to more people being able to use kindergarten. We know that kindergarten is an important integration arena, and it is also an important purpose for parents to get into work. Therefore, I believe that the government has shown a very clear commitment to kindergartens during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1513	On International Women's Day, I would like to ask the Minister of Health about the metabolic diseases, which often affect women. ‘Musculoskeletal disorders are most common in women. Some 140,000 Nordics have been diagnosed, but the real figure is probably a lot higher. Many go around with diffuse plagues without investigating whether these plagues can be related to metabolism. Unfortunately, it is difficult to make a diagnosis early. Is the Council of State doing enough to strengthen research and increase the level and competence of this large disease group?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1522	First I have to be allowed to congratulate on the day. Low metabolism, hypothyroidism, is divided into innate and acquired type. All newborns are offered screening for congenital hypothyroidism, which is a rare disease. Acquired hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism, high metabolism, affects many people and especially women. It is important that women and men with diffuse disorders due to low or high metabolism receive the health care they need. Research is a prerequisite for knowledge-based practices and for research-based education and the enhancement of the competence of health professionals. Therefore, the Ministry earmarks funds for research through health regions, 628 million. SEK in 2017, and through the Research Council, SEK 333 million. kr in the current year. Calls are widely formulated and, if research projects compete on research funds, they will also be able to finance research on metabolic diseases. More measures have been put in place to strengthen research and empowerment in the field of diseases particularly affecting women. Through the Research Council, it is well worth 10.5 million. SEK for women’s health and gender perspective, an increase of 2.5 million. kr from 2013. In regional health enterprises, national services of competence for women’s health, which have knowledge dissemination, professional development and research as their core activities, are established. The service disseminates knowledge of diseases particularly affecting women through courses, websites, scientific publications, etc. I'm concerned that the research we're funding will benefit patients. This is why we have given leadership on user involvement in all research projects funded by the Ministry. Research projects shall be of high scientific quality and priority shall be given to projects of greatest benefit to the patient and health care. Health regions are the priority areas for research in the specialist health service, within available resources, and projects are designed to reflect the needs of patients and the service. Through the long-term commitment to health research and national services of competence for women’s health, I believe that we have good framework conditions for both research on metabolic diseases and to meet the need for skills development and dissemination. However, research into metabolic diseases requires Norwegian researchers to apply for research funding and reach competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1538	Thanks for the answer, which was a general review of what's done, and that's important. After it became known that I was going to ask this question in Stortinget, I have received a lot of enquiries from not least patients. It's true that there are a lot of people who are afflicted with low metabolism. Many of these again get good help when they are first diagnosed, through the drugs that exist today. But there is also a group that has more complicated conditions for which it is difficult to find the right treatment, and some of them need assistance in the specialist health service. For some strange reason – and this I was not aware of – it seems to be a glass ceiling for these patients in terms of reaching specialists in this field. It bothers me that it is, but I have no reason to doubt that it is true. What will the Council of State do to help them?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1545	I am aware that some patients in the group addressed by the representative feel that they are not getting sufficient and good enough health care help. Of course, we don't want it to be like that. It is therefore important that a healthcare professional works better to help patients with more complex disease images. These include: one of the reasons why a pilot has been established at St. Olav’s Hospital to be a reception centre for patients with a type of complex disorder and which shall also be a model to be used in the rest of the country as a form of diagnostic centre for patients with complex disorders. But this is a big and complicated question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1550	I thank you for your answer. I want to ask questions about drugs. For those with low metabolism, there is a type of synthetic drug that helps many and that is on blue prescription. There's a group of patients, and there's a lot of them because this applies to a lot of patients, who have better use of a type of extract medicine, and it's not on blue prescription. Now this is with a blue prescription or not a professional medical question, which the Minister of Health and I are not going to decide, and it is also a political question of access to drugs and medicines. I find it a little problematic that there are so many differences in the financial possibilities or assumptions of a large patient group of chroniclers. Someone gets medicine on blue prescription, and someone doesn't get it. What does the Minister of Health think can be done here to equalise these patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1557	In order for a medicinal product to be authorised under the blue prescription system, the manufacturer of the medicinal product must apply for it and must, of course, also comply with the requirements for this both professionally and financially. There are also a number of exceptions that specialists can apply for, for example. to import or use medicinal products if they consider that they have a good effect on the patient. So my closest recommendation to this would be to take it up with the treating physician and ask them to seek information from the Medical Products Agency about the possibilities that lie there, if this is a medicine that can be approved professionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1565	‘Studies have revealed gender differences in the investigation and treatment of myocardial infarction in Norwegian hospitals. This is done despite the fact that international guidelines recommend equal treatment for women and men. That women receive worse treatment when they are affected by severe ‘blue light’ diseases is totally unacceptable. The professional communities have expressed concern about the discrimination we are now seeing. How will the Council of State ensure that women are guaranteed equal health care to men?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1572	There shall be equivalent health services in Norway, regardless of gender. As the representative of Micaelsen points out, previous studies have shown that there are gender differences in the investigation and treatment of myocardial infarction despite the fact that international guidelines recommend equal treatment for women and men. As I have previously informed you in reply to written questions to Stortinget, there is a recent study on the same topic. The study, which includes patients admitted to Norwegian hospitals in the period 2013–2014, shows that fewer women than men were investigated with coronary angiography, and that women to a lesser extent than men were recommended to take medicinal products to prevent cardiovascular disease. The study also shows that the survival after myocardial infarction in Norway appears to be as good for women as for men. I believe the latter study is important in order to get up-to-date knowledge of gender differences in patients’ access to healthcare. The study shows that age and additional diseases are likely to be more important than gender in determining whether a patient should be studied with coronary angiography or not. Women have more additional diseases and an increased risk of complications, and this may be one of the reasons why women than men receive treatment with certain medicinal products. The Ministry of Health and Welfare is working to increase awareness of the differences in the provision of services between women and men. The gender dimension shall be addressed in research funded by the Ministry, both through the Research Council and the Health Regions. It is positive that there has been a study that highlights the gender differences in the investigation and treatment of myocardial infarction. This shows the importance of developing good quality records. I would also like to mention that national services of competence for women's health are concerned with the dissemination of knowledge about women's health in a life-cycle perspective. Gender differences in cardiovascular diseases are one of the areas in which competence services will strengthen their efforts in the period 2014-2018, in which we are now involved. More generally, I believe that we need to be interested in the unjustified variation in healthcare, because this may be a sign of poor quality. Wide variation challenges the principle of equal access to healthcare. In the 2017 mission paper, I have asked health regions to use knowledge of unjustified variation in their management follow-up of hospitals, including following up on examples of unjustified variation revealed by the health atlas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1588	I thank you for the answer, and I agree that neither do I believe that it is that some treating doctors sit with a woman and a man in front of them and think: Here we have to treat people quite differently. Here, there are much more complex reasons, which the Council of State also points to. Another place where we see structural things that are often at the root of — most likely — discrimination between women and men is in the private health market. I don't have clear figures for how women and men are separated in terms of, for example. The purchase of health insurance, but what we know, and what the insurance industry says, is that there are more people with high education and high incomes than people with, for example, low education and lower income buying this type of insurance. When we know that women are often more often represented in those groups that are less likely to buy these kinds of insurance, we have a similar situation. What does the Council of State think should be done to combat this type of structural background causes of gender differences in healthcare treatment in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1595	I also do not have any figures showing gender differences in having private health insurance. However, as the representative is involved, the vast majority of private health insurance is paid by the employer in the private sector, and there is reason to believe that fewer women than men have health insurance. My answer to that is that I believe that we must have a publicly funded healthcare service in Norway that has such good availability, so short waiting times and such a wide range that it is what the people experience as the basic security that they get proper health care at the right time. This is the most important thing we can do to prevent the spread of health insurance from being perceived as the safety of obtaining the necessary health care. Then I am sure that the insurance industry will adapt to any situation and thus offer health insurance that is not about the public priority. But that's another discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1601	I thank you again for the answer. I fully agree with the latter. It's strikingly more how the Council of State today puts itself around this particular phenomenon, in relation to how he talked about it four years ago. I also agree that it is the public health service that must be the main response to these gender differences and other differences in treatment provision given to patients in Norway. But the problem is that we now have some years behind us where the growth of this kind of insurance – which we can believe with great conviction is adjourned men – has continued with the Right and Advance Party in government. And the measures to remedy this, e.g.: The performance reform of the State Council, called the Free Choice of Treatment, has proved to be extremely small in addressing this problem. I will end by urging the Minister of Health to engage even more seriously in gender differences in the Norwegian healthcare system. On women's day it would have been nice to hear if there were any new initiatives going on from today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1612	Firstly, I believe that my views on private health insurance are the same now as they were four years ago. Secondly, the explosive growth in the sale of private health insurance that occurred when the Workers' Party was responsible for health policy has now slowed down – it sees a clear trend. As the health policy of the Right-wing Party government is allowed to work, we also see that the growth in the sale of private health insurance is severely slowed down. I think that's positive. With regard to the issue of a stronger commitment to women's health, I fully agree that we need to have a continuous focus on that issue. As I also explained in the previous question, we put clear leads to it, because I think that much of the answer to it is just having a gender perspective on medical research that is going on, so that we get knowledge of the differences. Then there is also a basis for doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1624	‘The thawed hospital was the only somatic hospital in the Inland Hospital that made a profit in 2016. A key success factor has been the local management of the Thinset Hospital in charge of economics, trades and personnel. On 10 February 2017, Østlandingen writes that the Hospital Inland will investigate the possibility of removing the management of the hospital at Tynset. Can the Council of State guarantee that the Thinset Hospital will retain the local manager responsible for the economy, professions and personnel, in line with the decision of the National Health and Hospital Plan?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1631	When the Stortinget examined the National Health and Hospital Plan, the following majority proposals were adopted: ‘The decision asks the government through the business meeting and/or management documents to ensure that local management becomes the general rule in Norwegian hospitals.’ The decision-to-manage decision-making process provides some flexibility for health care establishments to design management models tailored to local needs, but local management should be the general rule. In the business meeting on 4 May 2016, I requested that health regions should base their work on local plans and the operation of the specialist health service, in line with the request decision. Furthermore, I pointed out that the requirement of local management does not prevent the use of cross-sectional clinics. In a cross-sectional clinic structure, the clinic manager must ensure that there are managers at the different geographical locations authorised to exercise local management. An appropriate division of tasks and requirements for overall patient conduct requires close professional and organisational cooperation between hospitals. In the business meeting I also reminded that health care businesses must organise their activities in a way that ensures that the law’s requirements for uniform management are met. Regardless of organisation, good communication and closeness to the nearest manager shall be ensured. Conversion processes and changes in the organisational model shall take place in cooperation and in good dialogue with employees and their organisations. Health South-East has informed the Department that the board of the Hospital Inland on 15 December 2016 took decisions on several organisational and professional conversion measures. The health undertaking is now working on the implementation of the Management Board’s decision, including an assessment of whether the somatic divisions in Hedmark are to be merged into one joint division. The assessment of the reorganization of somatic hospitals in Hedmark is divided into two phases. In the first phase, an appropriate organisational solution for division Elverum-Hamar-Kongswinger shall be considered. The aim is to strengthen professional development and interaction with patient pathways. As of today, there are no concrete plans for a possible start-up of phase 2. Health South-East has informed the Ministry that the proposals and leads related to changes in the hospital structure in Hedmark mean that the Tynset Hospital retains the status of self-division with its own local management. I am confident that both Health South-East and Hospital Inland follow up the Stortingen's intention in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1651	Thanks for the answer. The Council of State refers to the National Health and Hospital Plan, where the majority decided that urban rental should be the main rule in Norwegian hospitals. The experience is somewhat similar to that of whether this decision has had an impact. In any case, I note that, on the contrary, it is arranged for cross-sectional clinics and cross-sectional rentals. When it applies to Tynset, I have been told that the company has gone away from phase 2 until further notice. There is a need for a prudent framework in hospitals even when it comes to renting. It has been stated that any changes to the organisation of Division Thinset will only be made at a later date and after any other changes have been evaluated. How long can Tynset have quiet guidance?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1662	Firstly, I have to remind the representative Toppe that it was not the Central Party's proposal on local management that was adopted at Stortinget. The proposal adopted was adopted by way of premises to which the Central Party did not belong, including: in the case of the representative, Toppe, says that a cross-sectional structure is opposed. The Stortingets then stated clearly that transversal structures should not prevent local management and that it was fully possible to have both of these solutions. So the representative top just has to take over that that's the way it is. I assume – as I always do – that both Health South-East and Hospital Inland relate to the assignment they received on 4 May 2016 in this field. And I record that there are no plans for anything else now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1669	The centre party takes over the decision of the Storting and wants it to be followed up. It's just the Center Party's model that's practiced on Tynset, with great success, and therefore we're concerned that he's going to continue. Governments did not comment on what has been said about Thinset being considered at a later date. He would like to answer that question. So when it comes to the decision in the Inland Hospital, they're going to consider a reorganization, where one makes Hamar, Elverum, and Kongswinger a division. Will Kongsvinger lose his quiet lead? Can the Councils answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1678	In the case of Kongswinger hospitals, there are assessments of different alternatives. One of the options to be considered there is that Kongsvinger Hospital and mission area become part of Akershu University Hospital. The direction of local management is completely independent of the form of association chosen. Health South-East is very clear and has informed the department that Thinset Hospital retains the status of autonomous division with its own local management. It's on the ground. If one is to discuss future changes, the changes will have to be made within the requirements of the National Health and Hospital Plan and the mission document given in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1689	‘Health services are facing major digitisation and technological development. What is the strategy of the Council of State to ensure that this builds business and creates new jobs in a Norwegian supplier industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1696	The government creates the patient's health service. Better ICT solutions are essential to achieve this. Health and the Ministry of Health are in progress with several major ICT initiatives, including: One citizen — one journal, welfare technology and health data. The need for technology development will provide great opportunities for the Norwegian supplier industry. It is mainly the business actors who need to develop the solutions. Administrations shall facilitate common technical standard, code works, terminology, etc. In this way, the healthcare sector and the business community have a clear and predictable framework for the development and acquisition of new solutions. The Directorate for eHealth shall contribute to this. The Directorate for e-Health is inter alia: developing a supplier strategy. Good cooperation between authorities, health and care services and market actors is the key to achieving good solutions. The government has therefore implemented a number of measures to facilitate this. I would like to highlight the Health Care2l process, which has given both actors themselves and the government a common target image and established important arenas across the sectors and policies for health, research and industrial development. I would also like to highlight efforts to increase the competence of innovative public acquisitions. National supply development programme shall enhance the ability of countries and local authorities to carry out innovative public acquisitions. New public acquisition law came into force on 1 January. I have clearly stated that I expect health regions to use the possibilities contained in the new law. Hospital HFs are established to improve the benefits of the procurement of specialist healthcare, and the company has a clear ambition to promote innovation and to facilitate new innovative solutions. I would like to highlight something that the representative Kjerkol is strongly involved in, namely access to health data for research, innovation and industrial development. The legislation has been simplified by a new Health Register Act and work is under way to revise the regulations for national health records. In addition, the government has appointed an expert committee to propose measures for more efficient access to health data. The committee shall evaluate how the representative of Kjerkol’s proposal for a lift for Norwegian biobanks can be followed up. I can also inform you that the Directorate for eHealth and the Norwegian Research Council signed a commitment last week to establish solutions to facilitate access to health data for research. The agreement shall strengthen research, innovation, industrial development and, in particular, healthcare to the benefit of the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1712	I am very excited to hear that health data is working well, and not least to improve access to our glittering biobanks. But I would like to draw your attention to something an overall health industry promoted as expectations to the government, prior to the government also working with an industry message. I know that this is not the Department of the Council of State, but Health Care21 defines this as both a nutritional effort and an opportunity for health care. Increased commercialisation of research, increased access to testing units, test laboratories and, above all, the possibility to roll out welfare technologies more quickly through the use of both innovative acquisitions and risk relief. What I miss is the total effort to build a health industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1717	That was the total effort I made in my answer. What is important in order to achieve results in this area is to contribute to the establishment of concrete solutions where industry has experienced a threshold in order to contribute. That is exactly what I have prioritised to establish an opportunity for the Norwegian supplier industry to enter the domestic market, which is important. Then it's about taking hold of the things that hinder. The former law relating to acquisitions was an obstacle and has now been amended. I have commissioned health companies to use the law, and I expect the municipalities to do the same. We have doubled the support for the care technology programme against the municipalities. The challenge here, which we are now addressing, is how pilots should not just remain pilots, but actually become the new normal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1724	The business community applauds what gives them better market access and what helps to relieve risks to them when exploring new markets. That is probably where we quite agree. However, this coordination is requested from an overall health industry in Norway. The Swedish government has organised itself through Life Science coordinators who work across departments and, as such, ensure that the coordination they want to achieve with Health Care21 is also part of political management. Is there a way that the Minister of Health sees fit for food use to organise work and efforts, including in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1729	I can assure the representative that the government is already coordinating the work in this area, and one can see that, among other things. when the industrial message is provided. It is important that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has the primary responsibility for the food policy instruments, but that does not mean that we, as government councils for the various disciplines, do not engage in them and coordinate important industries. I believe that the health industry is an important future industry for Norway. The industry's own Menon report shows very clearly that this is not just an industry that is coming to Norway, but that it is actually quite big already. What we also see is that the food policy instruments that this government has prioritised under the Ministry of Economic Affairs meet this industry very well. Health is now on the rise and becoming the industry following the large, traditional Norwegian industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1740	‘The acute surgery of local hospitals in Odda, Narvik, Volda, Flekkefjord and Lofoten is at risk of being stopped. In a hard country, ambulance helicopters can sometimes be impossible. In such cases 'the patient may die because the 'golden hour' is spent on transport and not knife time', as an emergency nurse writes in a chronicle of the NRK opinion. Does not the Council of State fear that the closure of emergency surgery will lead to the death of patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1747	The treatment of the population at national health and hospital level determined that we should have both large and small hospitals with emergency facilities in Norway. We're not going to lay down the small emergency hospitals, we're going to keep them and develop them further. All emergency hospitals shall be able to treat patients with common diseases, such as difficulty breathing, stroke, heart disease and infections. All emergency hospitals shall be prepared for surgical assessment, stabilisation and management of acute events, but these systems will differ between hospitals. Several emergency hospitals still need to have full emergency surgery because of long distances. It is essential that the hospital has staff with skills that are tailored to the needs of patients and that are predictable 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Health businesses are also responsible for allocating their competences and specialists so that they can spend as much of their time as possible on treating patients. This consideration must weigh heavily when planning the division of tasks between hospitals. In order to provide the best possible range of services to the population, hospitals need to cooperate more closely than they do today. Large hospitals, for example, need to be leave tasks to smaller hospitals to exploit common capacities and competences. The acute functions must be distributed in such a way that they offer a safe and high-quality range of services as a whole. The government’s objective is a coherent system of emergency medical services within and outside hospitals, providing adequate safety and quality throughout the country. Today we have a well-developed offer with car, boat and air ambulance. The ambulance service makes a great deal of effort, both by treating patients outside the hospital and by transporting them, often under demanding conditions. However, with Norway’s geography and housing patterns, we will never be able to completely avoid that distance, communication and weather conditions in some situations can become so demanding that they pose a risk. Therefore, it is important that healthcare businesses have clarified the patient’s course of emergency situations and how cooperation should be between prehospital services and hospitals and between individual hospitals. If emergency services are to be changed in hospitals, the capacity and competence of the prehospital services need to be strengthened. These assessments must also include the provision of medical services. Health enterprises and municipalities must therefore ensure that the statutory cooperation agreements become an operational planning tool to provide the public with safety and emergency assistance when they need it. All health establishments are now making development plans in line with the leadership of the Storting. Clearances of emergency functions shall take place before 1 April. Proposals for changes will be dealt with in business meetings, under the Health Business Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1764	I see the answer as a description of what the Minister of Health has previously referred to as the emergency hospital of the future – and that's exactly what we're talking about here. The medical unit has said this quite clearly: Forget about local hospitals without emergency surgery! There is no emergency hospital without a 24-hour surgeon, they say. It's not from anybody. It is for the first time the League that organizes the Legacies in this country. Secondly, it is they who are responsible for all medical specialization and approval of it. So when the Medical Association says this about the specialist services, that one can only forget local hospitals without emergency surgery, and the opposite is the plan of the government: What does the Minister of Health think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1773	I think I disagree, because I don't intend to forget either Nordfjord Hospital or Lärdal Hospital. If you take into account the claims of the Medical Association, that's the consequence. The type of requirements that the Medical Association here addresses will result in a strong centralisation of hospitals in Norway. That is what I warned against in my hospital speech in advance of the preparation of the National Health and Hospital Plan. This is why this government has presented an alternative approach to this, such as: Based on the good experience of two of our less acute hospitals in a district like Sogn and Fjordane, which provide a significant security for the population living there and who are also very positively referred to by those who use the hospitals. It's a model that I'm not going to forget, but which, on the contrary, I'm going to fence around, because that's what's important to take care of a decentralised hospital structure in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1780	That's the opposite of what's happening right now. Torfinn Andersen from Tyssedal, near Odda, was last November. He was taken to the hospital in Odda, and because of rapid decisions in emergency preparedness, taken by surgeon Trond Dyngeland, the ongoing internal bleeding stopped. This was a patient's death that was avoided. Had the surgeon not been at work, the patient would most likely have died, so it would have been an unnecessary death. While Andersen got his life scared at Odda Hospital, working on a report that assesses the emergency surgery at the hospital, directed by Health Fonna. And yesterday, the board decided to close the emergency surgery. Similar processes also occur elsewhere in the cold water of the ill skin plan of the government. My question to the Minister is this: If emergency surgery is stopped at hospitals like Odda, how can the Minister of Health guarantee that this does not lead to unnecessary deaths?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1789	It's not right, as the representative says, that's the opposite of what I said, that's going on – on the contrary. This is now a discussion taking place within the framework of maintaining the smaller hospitals as emergency hospitals in Norway. I would like to remind you that in the 20 or so years before – perhaps 30 years ago – these and many more hospitals have lived under uncertainty if they are going to exist as hospitals at all. That discussion is now closed, as long as we have the current national health and health plan and this government – in cooperation with the Left – is allowed to govern Norway. We're going to have a decentralised hospital structure, including less emergency hospitals, and the larger hospitals are going to experience a responsibility to rebuild these hospitals. The model in Lærdal and in Nordfjord is a good model, which provides security for the population, and I'm not going to put that model in the drawer in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1806	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1815	‘Can the Council of State admit the positive aspects of the Norwegian colorful and multicultural society and explain how the Norwegian society has succeeded with its immigrant population and their descendants, and how has the Council of State intended to contribute to raising the positive aspects of the Norwegian colorful community and multicultural society in the public vocabulary, and to help facilitate the success of immigrants and their children in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1820	Let me first take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate all women on the day. This is a day where we have a great opportunity to focus on the gender equality fight. For too many in Norway, this fight is not over, and there is no doubt that too many immigrant women in Norway experience forced marriage and negative social control. There are many positive aspects of Norway being a country with immigrants, and fortunately it is that the vast majority of immigrants in Norway are employed, integrated and contribute to the Norwegian community. But when we're talking about immigrants and immigration and the situation in Norway today, it's important to be clear about what's going on, while at the same time being just as important to be clear about what's not going well, and with which we should definitely do something together. If we're not clear on what demands and expectations the Norwegian society places on its citizens, including immigrants, we simply don't take people seriously. I think people appreciate being taken seriously and met with respect. To make demands is just that. Not talking about the problems is not that. All residents of Norway shall participate in the community and shall have equal opportunity to participate. The government therefore wants to avoid larger groups of citizens being on the outside of society, a society in which most people participate in the world of work, and where the large community contributes to the maintenance of a society of high trust. This benefits us all. Immigrants living and living in Norway shall work, they shall become taxpayers, they shall learn Norwegian, and otherwise they shall also become participating citizens. A strict and fair immigration policy and an integration policy that will enable those who are allowed to stay in Norway to make a rapid contribution by getting out of work, studying and so on, is the best solution. By demanding self-employment, investing in the rapid settlement of those who come as refugees, and targeting the qualification of new immigrant workers, the government is just helping to improve the success of immigrants and their children in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1836	We talk a lot about all of these ‘shall’ things that immigrants are going to do – all this about making demands, which are initially agreed upon by everyone. In public vocabulary, problems are being liberalized, so I had actually thought through this issue to help us hear exactly the immigration and integration councils say something about the positive of multicultural society – how we actually succeed, and how we can succeed even better. The little thing I noticed here, as the Council of State said, is that there are positive aspects to it – they were working and contributing. In addition to that, we were back on the old track that we always hear about, that we have to make demands, and that there are problems – and he repeated this time and time again. I'm not going to repeat the question, because it's been heard by the Council of State, but can't we admit the positive sides? I would have liked the Council of State to take more than 3 minutes to get the positive aspects of the Norwegian colorful community, which the question was about, not what requirements we are going to make. I guess that also has to be positive sides that are going to take 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1843	This government has made a lot of proposals for integration measures. I tried to open it with that there's a lot of positive in this. I believe that both sides should receive attention. I note that the representative Raja himself in 2015 pointed out major challenges. The representative Raja said in an interview in 2015 that we had 100,000 poor children in Norway. He feared that very ‘many of them are going to end up as criminals, social losers and become a burden to themselves and society’, and therefore we had to put something there. In fact, the representative Raja also said that he was startled that he thought today's youth uprisings were not about freedom, but almost the opposite. We have major challenges, and I note that the representative Raja is also very concerned about – and has been very concerned about – the major challenges we have for us to succeed in integrating as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1852	I'm going to have to put this question back into the next week, so we're going to get answers to just the positive sides, because I haven't yet got answers to the positive sides, and I'm not going to give up. We have enough problems, and that there are poor children, I've known the body myself. I was a poor child, but I don't want to say that you can't succeed if you organize the policy for it. I see that the Vice-Chair of the Progress Party Per Sandberg in a play in the class struggle the year that the Council of State itself mentioned, believes that the multicultural society has played down. There may be a jargon you can use as a giant representative, but I'm going to assume that the Council of State now as he stands here and will answer for the government's official policy, won't mean that the multicultural society has failed. So to ask the question directly, does the Council of State mean that the multicultural society has failed, or are we succeeding in the multicultural society in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1865	This is very interesting, because by the last week there has been the following look-up in the Norwegian press: Multiculturalism as the guiding principle for Norwegian integration policy has been buried too well – then with reference to the last investigation by the Brochmann Committee. The representative, Bård Vegar Solhjell, from SV, clearly states that «multiculturalism is stone dead». Now he wants to challenge the rest of the left-hand side to realize the same thing, that "Ap and SV and the rest of the left-hand side are going to assume that the idea of multiculturalism is stone dead". And then, "It's a false idea that there's luck with several cultures that are side by side," says Solhjell. In fact, he also refers to the Agenda Committee on Integration, which highlights the importance of a set of common values and a common culture. In this sample also left. I also record that in 2005, the representative Abid Q. Raja said that culture should not lead in any way the decisions of politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1880	My question to the Minister of Knowledge is somewhat in line with the question asked here earlier: ‘Persons over 16 years of age who have been granted a residence permit are entitled to primary education for adults if necessary. According to the Education Directorate, the counties do not have an overview of the training status of 40 pst. of these persons. These young people are now at risk of leaving without training for up to six and a half years from arrival to training. There is a danger that long waiting in passivity can lead to knowledge and skills being played. What would the State Council like to do to change this?'
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1889	I would like to start with a clarification on the rights to training. It is true that applicants for asylum between the ages of 16 and 18 who are legally resident in the country pending a decision on an application for a residence permit are also entitled to secondary or primary education for adults. This right applies when they are under 18 years of age and they are likely to be in Norway for more than three months. So it's not like these kids are going to wait to start training. It is very important that students get into training quickly and that they get a good and adapted offer. This is the responsibility of municipalities and counties, and many take good care of it. On the part of the state, we contribute to support measures, such as: online learning materials in the most relevant languages — and empowerment. We will continue to do so, and we will continuously assess the alignment and the need for such measures. Then it is that we do not have a state reporting system that continuously provides us with an overview of the training offered to asylum seekers of school age at all times. The questions that were started in December 2015 have given us some information, but there are some uncertainties about the answers. Municipalities and municipalities are responsible for secondary and primary education for adults in this group, respectively. Therefore, the replies of the county councils do not give a complete picture. We also know that the county councils in their systems do not have the opportunity to distinguish who are asylum seekers, and who lives or has been given residence. That's why it's important for me to stress that 40 pst. is the proportion for which the municipalities did not have an overview on the last query. This does not necessarily mean that there is such a large proportion that there is no training provision, either by the municipality or by the county. Young people over 16 years of age also have no obligation to go to school. In order to provide a better state overview, I, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and Defence, would like to see if we can get a better system of information. This could be done, for example, by: be more appropriate to use the receivers as the source of information. School is an arena for both professional learning and social inclusion. Together, we must make sure that the school contributes to the best possible everyday life for these young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1904	Thanks for the answer. This is a question that the minister of knowledge himself asked more in writing, following a previous oral question. Our challenge is, as the minister himself pointed out: how are we going to keep both the registration and the follow-up of all that debt? I am also thinking of a more flexible system, where one can enter the school in the course of time, instead of getting into an application queue with an application deadline in March. A little later, when you enter the system, you may have to wait until the following year before entering an educational course. This is perhaps the biggest challenge – on which I will challenge the Minister: Does he have any thoughts about meeting it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1911	Thank you very much for your follow-up question. If I understand correctly, it is not a question of who is right, so we focus on those who are entitled to training in Norway. It is also a problem if, for example: have received a refusal to apply for a stay, etc., but those who are entitled. If we compare with primary school, the legislation as of today is such that if you are likely to be in Norway for more than three months, you have a right to primary education. It is important to stress that this does not mean that one has the right to start school from the coming autumn — one in practice has the right to primary education from the first day. It'll be similar in high school: it's not like you're coming in November, then you'll have to wait for school start until next fall. The starting point is that one should be trained as quickly as possible — where it is practical to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1920	I record that the practice should be like this – I'm afraid he isn't. So I hope the minister might be able to follow up. I think KS may also be a partner here – towards the municipalities and municipalities – to follow up on this. KS is looking for a quick track into working life for those who are entitled to training. As has previously been said from the Chair of the Minister for Integration: Getting our new immigrants into work and into society is the most important thing that can be done to make them positive contributors to society. The challenge is still perhaps a follow-up from the Minister when it concerns that very question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1927	I fully agree that we should have better numbers on this, and also get them more regularly. Unfortunately, in many areas, one thing is what the legislation is, of course, how the legislation is enforced in practice – in this case out in the counties. In terms of municipalities, we have a better overview of students from 6 to 16 years of age. But this applies to county councils and secondary education. That's why I say that together with the Ministry of Justice and Defence, I will look at how we can get better and more regular information about these students. It will be the first step on the way to just being able to check whether the practice in the counties is good enough over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1938	‘We are in a situation where technological progress is very rapid. So to say the whole community is affected, and work tasks change quickly. That is why we need more ICT workers, at all levels of education. Why is this not reflected in the government’s education policy by the creation of more places of study and vocational training?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1945	I agree with the representative that we need skills in ICT and that this need is increasing. I do not agree with the Aasen representative in the actual description, that this has not resulted in the policy of the four cooperation parties. The government and the cooperation parties at Stortinget have in several budgets earmarked study places for just ICT. In 2015, we allocated 250 study places to the MNT subjects, such as the institutions. can be used for ICT. In 2016, 100 study places were allocated to ICT and 380 strategic study sites, which could also be included in ICT. In the revised 2016 national budget, 65 places of study were designated for ICT security and 135 for ICT or health. And for 2017, the result was that a total of 500 places of study were prioritised for ICT. This shows that there is a commitment — and there are more places to study in ICT. It is also a response to the needs identified in the report from, among others, the Member States. DAMVAD. However, the Ministry of Knowledge does not direct the study of ICT, and as I have repeated several times in this Chamber, some of the autonomy of Norwegian universities and colleges also involves a responsibility to assess the recording in the light of, among other things. national and regional needs and student search. It's one of the core tasks we've put in universities and colleges, and it's a responsibility they also have to take. In recent years, there have also been a gradual increase in applicants for ICT education through the Coordinated Recording, and 500 more students were admitted to such offers in 2016 compared to 2012. This shows that students are increasingly seeing that ICT education will provide good opportunities in the workplace. I think it's still important that businesses, universities and colleges work to motivate competent people to apply for ICT studies. It's a demanding study. Increased competition for study places allows for better quality and increased flow. In the Single European Act, Culture for Quality in Higher Education, which we have just presented, several measures are proposed which together can strengthen ICT education and training. In the big news about the digital agenda, the government presents its main priorities in ICT policy, and we refer here to the importance of ICT training and that in the annual budgets we will assess the need for just more places of study. DAMVAD’s report shows that we have a wide range of ICT services in all parts of the country at national level. The institutions are therefore well equipped to increase the admission of students. In conclusion, I would like to add that through the notification we have also arranged to strengthen this education offer, among other things. in the case of a new grant scheme for specialised schools. Vocational schools will also be important for the future's working life. And we'll evaluate multiple places of study into the technical school sector, which may also be relevant to society's overall ICT competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1958	The Council of State itself refers to the DAMVAD report that came in 2014. It really had a rather discouraging analysis, and it was quite clear that there is a significant increase in the need for ICT personnel in the future. Today's ICT education offer for students will mean that there will be a greater gap between supply and demand than there already is. If we don't do anything, we're going to miss out on a huge value creation potential, and we're going to risk a lot of disastrously poorly managed ICT projects. Of the study places now mentioned, the vast majority — a few hundred were mentioned — have been included in the budget agreement at Stortinget. It has not been the government's plan to create any more places to study. The Council of State has argued against it from this pulpit earlier. The question is, why is that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1965	Just as the representative of Aasen puts me in charge of 10 million. kr, which was in the NOKUT budget, was not allocated to them – i.e. not a cut, but money they did not receive, and something I have to answer for as a government council – it is also natural that I highlight the positive aspects of the budget agreement. It is a very artificial distinction if you say that the budgetary agreement, which both government parties voted in favour and which was negotiated on the Stortinget, is irrelevant to the government's efforts. I would also like to say that that government has put forward in its original budgets, also building up under the very focus of ICT. For example, the focus on research, funds from the SPS, recruitment positions and priorities, in particular by the MNT disciplines, is also important for ICT competence. In addition, there are not just hundreds of places of study. This year alone – in 2017 – there are 500 study places, as I mentioned in my article.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1972	ICT training was not specific, but specific to real-life subjects. Prime Minister Erna Solberg has pointed this out quite often that we are faced with demanding tasks. Society is going to change rapidly, digital change is going to affect almost all occupational groups, and we have to think completely differently in the workplace. Does the Council of State think that it is up to the universities and colleges to prepare for that reality, perhaps that a great majority of them are going to change government policy, when both Prime Minister and Mr Røe Isaksen are fully aware that what we really need to do in our education policy is to give about the whole system so that we are prepared for the digital development that comes? Or does the Council of State think that here we see who takes it seriously, and then what happens – that the government won't take any leadership?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1981	I totally disagree with the premise for the question, because the premise for the question is that the only way to govern universities and colleges is to govern them in detail. And here there might be an ideological difference between the government parties and the Workers' Party. I believe that Norwegian universities and colleges should have great autonomy, great freedom, but that also means a responsibility. It is difficult to blame this government and this vast majority of people for not also investing in both clear and clear tools, more recruitment positions, heavy investment in research, heavy investment in quality in higher education. We're going to do that. But if the representative Marianne Aasen suggests that Norwegian universities and colleges have no responsibility themselves to distribute their money in a way that also takes into account the needs of society, I fundamentally disagree with that. It would have to mean a policy in which the only way to meet society's needs was through detailed administration of universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1988	Question 21 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e1997	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs: ‘Employment among young people was the lowest in 2016 at the age of 20. The proportion of young people in miscarriage has increased strongly in recent years. Are the Councils of State satisfied with their own efforts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2006	I share the representative's concern about the development of youth employment and the increase in the number of young people. Employment among young people is more cyclically sensitive than among older people. After 2008, the employment rate for young people has fallen more than average. In order to strengthen young people's opportunities and to provide a basis for a lasting relationship with the labour market, a broad approach and commitment in several areas, including education and health, are necessary. Too many start out-of-school. Several measures have been taken to address the non-response. The government has introduced the absence limit in secondary school. Several departments participate in the 0–24 cooperation for the success of others in school and the completion of secondary education. The apprenticeship grant has been increased in several rounds. The requirement for the use of apprentices to win public tenders has been strengthened. The Government will propose the introduction of a direct transition from youth to adult education. The training provision of the labour and welfare centre has been reinforced by a new two-year training course for people with a lack of basic qualifications. From the new year we introduced a new youth effort in the management of labour and welfare. Young people under the age of 30 who, after eight weeks, are unsolicited for work, schooling or any other activity, are required to be individually adapted to follow-up from the Nav office. From the New Year onwards, an obligation has also been imposed on municipalities to impose conditions on the activity of granting financial benefits to beneficiaries under 30 years of age. The aim is to strengthen the individual’s ability to get into work and become self-sufficient. It is especially important to help young people out of a passive life. In addition, measures have been taken to make it easier for employers to open their doors to young people. Access to temporary employment, increased use of wage subsidies and new and better organisation schemes strengthen the chance of transition to work. Before Easter, the government will present proposals for amendments to the rules on redundancy payments. The proposals will raise the threshold for entering the scheme and lower the threshold for losing rights in the scheme. More appropriate follow-up of the recipients of redundancy benefits, together with other efforts for young people, will strengthen youth opportunities and in the long term reduce inflows into poverty. The task of a Council of State is to meet the challenges that social development requires. The government has ambitious goals. The oil industry has given rise to additional challenges. We address the challenges and propose changes that are needed on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2021	There was a long list of different measures, but the fact remains. I got my tribute yesterday to Nav's document Work and well-being No. 1st of 2017. It says: ‘For the 15- to 24-year-olds, employment fell by 9 000 persons, while unemployment increased by 2 000.’ Then we remember that when the party of the Council of State, Right, was in opposition, there was no limit to how much lye you were going to use, and how important it was to remove outsiders. Being unemployed is being outside the closet. With all that listing, the numbers are the way they are. What does the Council of State say that her government has the weakest figures for this in decades?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2031	There was a reason why the exclusion of young people was one of the main priorities of the government when we joined. We saw that in the period 2008–2013, exclusion among young people increased from 47 000 to 70 000. From 2013 to 2017, it increased from 70 000 to 73 000. Still, too many young people fall outside. But if you believe in the statistics, there's a lot of evidence that we've at least begun to flatten out the explosive increase we saw under the previous government. There are many measures that are important. The representative of Lauvås goes in for an uproar. There are a number of measures to strengthen cooperation between health, school and work to ensure that fewer young people fall outside, that more young people are able to complete the school, that more young people get the help they need so that they get the skills they need to get a job later in life. That is why we are now proposing several changes to the system of redundancy payments to be debated by the Storting in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2036	Now this government has been on for 3.5 years, and the numbers have gone wrong all along in what we're discussing. In Eastfold, the numbers say we have over 1,300 between 19 and 30 years of total unemployment. In Rogaland the number over 3,300 according to the numbers I have from Nav, i.e. a total of about 4,600 are completely unemployed between 19 years and 30 years. Then you can wonder – in terms of the bet you are now making, this would have been done from day one, you would still have the bet that the red-green ones had. But what's done is to bet everybody, most of all on tax cuts for those who have all, most of all from before. Will the Council of State and the Right continue with tax cuts for those who already have the most, or does the Council of State and the Right understand that they now have to do something that actually works to raise the employment rate among young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2041	It's the default phrase from the Workers' Party to talk about tax breaks to those who have the most father before. The truth is that the main effort of this government is infrastructure, i.e. commitment to culture, knowledge and education, industrial research and innovation. Those bets are bigger than the taxes, so the representative is wrong. The reason we have the investment in infrastructure in knowledge and education is that we are in a major transition period because we were too oil-dependent in the past. We need to transform our working life and our business into finding more industries, more businesses, that can carry the well-being we have. It's not like we're going in the wrong direction. We now see that unemployment is going out and down, we see a lot of evidence that disability statistics, especially among young people, are out. But there are still too many outsiders, and that is why we have from day one started a lot of action on both the education page, the work page and the health page to capture more and get them included in school and work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2052	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU: ‘In the European Committee meeting of 30 November 2016, the Aspaker State Council briefed on the preliminary analyses of the consequences for Norway of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU and the EEA Agreements, stating that it is important to avoid a situation where Norway is without transitional arrangements or permanent agreements, while the EU and the United Kingdom have such. It is therefore in Norway’s interest to be included in discussions on common solutions between the EU and the United Kingdom on issues related to the internal market. What has the government done to ensure that Norway is included in the negotiations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2061	When the United Kingdom leaves the EU, it will also leave EEA cooperation and a new basis of agreement will need to be established for cooperation between Norway and the United Kingdom. First, the United Kingdom and the EU will negotiate the UK’s exit from the EU. Norway is not a party to the forthcoming negotiations, which, pursuant to Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, will be between the EU and the United Kingdom. However, Norway is directly affected by the call-out negotiations because, through the EEA Agreement, we are part of the single European internal market. The future bilateral relationship between Norway and the United Kingdom will therefore result from negotiations between us. We are in close contact with the United Kingdom, the EU institutions and central EU countries on the processes associated with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU — both to listen to their assessments and to underline Norway’s special position and needs. The Prime Minister and a number of other members of the Government have already had important talks with their respective colleagues, and further meetings are scheduled in the near future. I would like to assure the representative that we take up the brexit and the importance for Norway in all our conversations. The continuing functioning of EEA cooperation after British withdrawal is also considered important for the EU side. We therefore agree to have close dialogue during the negotiations, as underlined by the EU leader, Michel Barnier, at the invitation of the government in Oslo on 25 January. I do not think any other country has had such close contact with the United Kingdom, nor with the EU side, which Norway has had in the past since the referendum on Brexit. We will continue this contact in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2072	Thanks for the answer. The next question is: What issues, or what Norwegian views, are being promoted in these contacts, and what will be done when the negotiations begin? We were briefed at the meeting on 30 November on the views of Norway on trade relations with the United Kingdom. I feel that I have received the support of the European Committee. The government has set up a working group that goes through all departments to look at different issues. This is not just about trade, but about research, about trade, about financial services, about judicial cooperation, and not least about Norwegian citizens' rights. When will the government consult the Storting on the positions we have in these areas, for example. what is going on in the debate in the United Kingdom now: What rights should EU citizens have in the United Kingdom and Britain in EU countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2081	It's a very good and precise question from the representative Hansen. When Michel Barnier was here, he presented three main priorities of the EU side in the forthcoming negotiations. The first is about the discharge, the process itself, priority number two is citizens' rights, just as the representative Hansen describes. From the Norwegian point of view, it is just as important to raise that question: what rights and what agreements should apply after the United Kingdom has left the Union – acquired rights, pensions, social security benefits – how should we safeguard the interests of the Norwegian citizens who are in the United Kingdom? That's a twenty-thousand. It'll be priority number one for us. We have an intention to be so close to the arrangements between the EU and the United Kingdom that there should be a flexible and seamless system for Norwegian citizens too.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2086	But the question is, What does the government mean? Are the British who are now living and working or studying — or what they are doing — in Norway to stay, or are they to be treated as third-country nationals and assessed on this basis? If they are to be, what conditions are they to be subject to? Should they keep their rights? The government has to make an opinion on this, at my discretion in consultation with the Stortinget. The question is, has the government made any sense? When will the government consult the Storting on this and all the other questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2091	The Brexit process, both from the EU, from the United Kingdom and from us as a third country, is a process that each day reveals the complexity of this process. Every day we get a better understanding of how close and integrated cooperation in Europe has been. Every day we get new examples of what kind of challenges we face when the United Kingdom is going to leave the Union. From the Norwegian side, we have said that it will be a very positive input for us to be as close to the negotiations as possible, so that we can be part of any transitional arrangements, but also part of the arrangements that can be negotiated between the EU and the United Kingdom. We see the same ambition in the EU and in the United Kingdom to safeguard citizens' rights. That is why we have said so far that we will be as close to the processes as possible to safeguard the interests of Norwegian citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2096	Question 24 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2105	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Defects in the implementation of the police reform, which has been identified by Diffi, the Police Forum and the VG, are serious. Poor administration by the Minister of Justice and lack of trust both by those who work in the police and by people most cause concern. The government adopted a reform to ensure good local processes and to give us a police force that is close to people, that comes when people need them, better police services and more police force. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the police reform is implemented after the intention?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2114	I do not agree with the representative, Mr Tajik, that the picture of the implementation of the near-police reform is so serious. Police officers agree that we need to change the police, and many agree with both the objectives and important measures of the near-police reform. Some people may feel that there are ambitious targets, and that there are great expectations of what to achieve, and not least how fast the results are coming. The police reform has not been implemented, and 2016 has been largely a planning year. The reform shall be implemented by 2020. It is true that in mid-February, the Directorate for Administration and ICT delivered its first situation report to the Ministry, assessing the reform work carried out in 2016. The mission to Divi will be over four years. The report concludes that work on the near-police reform is on track to date. The police have mainly implemented the actions planned in 2016. It has been a challenging year for the police, and many have made a great effort. Police reform involves a significant shift of police with a view to strengthening the establishment's objectives and contributing to the security of society. Implementation of the reform has the highest priority in police development over the next few years, while improving the quality of service in the key areas or continuing at the same level. The Police Directorate, together with competent professionals from all over the department, has been working on concreteising Storting's order. There are employees who know the police every day well. The change in the local structure is based on proposals from local working groups, the involvement of the municipalities concerned and close cooperation with local organisations. Divi concludes that cooperation with organisations locally is mainly constructive and good. The police directorate informs us that cooperation is central to construction, although there are many demanding issues and many demanding discussions. Divi concludes that the relationship between the management of the Police Directorate and the organisations is closer, perhaps closer than in many other organisations. Divi makes some recommendations for further work, including: that the management of the reform by the Ministry should be coordinated with the ordinary management dialogue. This has already been done by the Ministry of Police, prior to each session of the Management Board, to provide an overall status report on the overall progress of the near-police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2128	The Minister of Justice said that the police are also in agreement with the objectives of the reform, and he is quite right in that, but that is not the case. Criticism is linked to the implementation of the reform, and there is a criticism that has been documented repeatedly, now the last time at Divi's report. The Minister of Justice says that he believes the criticism that has emerged is not serious. I don't agree with that. It is serious and must be taken seriously. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice quite specifically about some of the findings in the diffi report. They write, among other things, that red tape and efficiency cut are ‘especially unlucky to the police during a demanding reform period’. They also write that the districts use ‘resources for the reform work taken out of the line without compensation’. My question to the Minister of Justice is, Is he going to take the consequences of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2137	I think it's a good idea to listen, and I'm listening. I met with the organizations in the department last night, and I hear a lot about the recordings that are coming, and the assessments that are being made, and how things are perceived out there among all the employees of the police. So I think that yes, it's probably extra challenging to face two reforms at the same time, as is actually done with the efficiency measures that result from the ABE reform, while at the same time in the near police reform initially. But at the same time, I find that the police are delivering. The police supply all the indicators that can be followed from last year. In most areas, there are good police services and loyal follow-up by police officers. I think it's also important to boast of them and boast of the results you actually achieve, instead of trying to paint the situation blacker than it really is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2144	I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is listening, but I should in a way also want him to act. The diffi report goes a long way towards establishing that the police are on the margins financially. Yes, they deliver, as the Minister of Justice says, but are on the margins financially, and that is what I should like the Minister of Justice to also be able to take the consequences of. I would like to introduce another aspect of the diff report. It says explicitly: ‘employees in the POD indicate that they warn against using the term ‘near police reform’, because, as they pointed out, this is a change in which they add to the service, those who are to carry out the reform, do not recognize themselves. My question is, in fact, only why the government has insisted on using this name despite what is clearly strong warnings from the Police Directorate itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2151	The logic is that when you put together a number of offices and get some community services, for example: on salaries and accounts, we do it to free resources just to get more police force out there where people live, where people travel. Thus, the concept of close police reform in itself is quite descriptive of what is actually being done. So, of course, I see that someone's trying to have some fun with it. I don't think it's so important what the child's name is, the important thing is that this is a reform for the police. If we call it near-police reform, it's called police reform – I'm using both other parts – or police reform, you get to choose for yourself. My point is that both the undersigned and the representative Tajik through their parties have supported this reform. I think it's important that we all work together to make it work, and that we don't help to present it as if it's a different situation than it really is out there. Because, as I said, the reform is on track, and it is delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2162	‘The Court of Justice has rejected the co-location of Hallingdal District and Upper Busherud Land Change Rights, despite the local consensus on such co-location. Such co-location will meet the government's desire to build larger trade unions. On this basis, will the Council of State ask the Court of Justice to initiate work on the co-location of Hallingdal District Court and Upper Buskerud Right of Change?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2169	Let me first refer to the division of responsibilities and work between the administration of the Court of Justice and the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The Courts are budgeted in the framework, so the necessary priorities of the budget are determined by the budget procedure of the Grand Duchy. The DA is responsible for contributing to the efficiency of the whole legal chain and prioritizing the best possible use of society’s resources. Disposal within the framework, such as: co-location, is at the very heart of what DA is responsible for assessing, and are relationships that I as the Council of State do not see that I should go into. As regards the detailed reasons for the case, I have been informed by DA that a co-location of Hallingdal District and Upper Busherud Land Change Rights on Gol will result in increased costs. The offer from the municipality of Ne will involve additional annual rental costs of more than 1 million. kr. The offer itself is not necessarily unreasonable, but this has to be seen against what the courts pay in rent in current premises, which because of the standard is very reasonable. This is a doubling in relation to the current rental costs of the two courts, and the courts have calculated a need for a minimum of 1.5 million. kr in non-recurring investments when moving to new premises. Then, the increased costs have to be assessed against the gains that any co-location would bring, as DA has done, and has then come to the conclusion that the action should not be implemented. The increased costs of co-location, conversion and increased rental costs correspond to about four case handlers’ annual works. This is one of several difficult priorities for DA to do in order to balance operations in the other areas of the courts, including: secure manning. Finally, I would like to say that I share DA's view that co-location in many places is desirable to build a larger trade union environment, and therefore to the best of society. However, a number of factors need to be considered in the context of such an assessment, including the economy, in order to find out what is the most sensible solution. I have had a good dialogue with the administration of the Court of Justice on this matter and have confidence that the administration of the Court of Justice prioritises the resources of the courts in a good way, as well as in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2188	We are aware that the administration of the Court of Justice is responsible and that they must be made available within the framework. But at the 2016 state budget, the majority from Høje, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party said: ‘If changes to the structure are desired locally, a process must be carried out in which there are good discussions and processes locally linked to aggregations. In this work, it is important to ensure that both municipalities and employees in the courts are properly involved. If, after such a process, local agreement is reached, the majority has no objections to a merger.» Hallingdal has done this and done it in an exemplary way. The central party agrees with the establishment of a legal centre in Hallingdal. It's done a very good job. My question is, isn't the Court administration financially able to carry out the Storting's will, because this is where you went after the book?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2198	As I just said in my previous post, the administration of the Court of Justice, DA, must make its assessment and disposal within its limits. I also have great confidence, as I stressed in my previous post, that DA manages the resources in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2203	I understand here that it is the economy that is at the heart of the question, according to what the Council of State says. The court administration has a lease agreement with the municipality of Nes for 10 years until 1 April 2025, a favourable agreement. Further, the letter from the Court of Justice states not only about finance, but it also states that in December 2016, DA’s Board of Directors addressed in addition the need for restrictions on financial dispositions as a result of the work of the forthcoming Court of Justice Commission. This investigative work shall include, inter alia: examine future judicial structures in Norway and have also been part of the decision-making basis in this case. My first question is, is it also a leadership from the Council of State? Other questions: Does this guide prevent you from doing the job in Hallingdal when you have gone after the book? - Yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2212	I do not understand that this is a correct description. As I have said, it is DA that must make its disposals within its current framework. However, the fact that the forthcoming investigation gives certain leads to what the DA chooses to do in terms of renewing the lease of the court building is not unnatural either. At the same time, I would like to say that we work further from the government in terms of major projects in the case of the courts, and I would like to make it clear that it is not right to say that the investigation leads to a full stop in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2221	‘Since 2014, there has been a doubling of violence and threats against staff in Norwegian prisons. A short time ago, an inmate was killed. The trade unions have been providing long-term reports of concern. In the evening post we could read that the Minister of Justice stressed that he has no indication of a decrease in staff in recent years. He went on to say: 'There are requirements for efficiency improvement here as in all other areas. Those requirements will never compromise with the safety of Norwegian prisons’. Is the Council of State still in favour of these opinions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2228	The killing in the Ring Kingdom prison is a very serious matter. We need 35 years back to see something similar happen in Norwegian prison. The killing is a police matter, and the police are conducting investigations and investigations. With regard to the Ministry of Justice and Security, we are awaiting a report from the Directorate of Criminal Affairs after the police have conducted investigations and interrogations. We will receive a thorough report when the directorate and Ringerike prison have been through routines and regulations. The representative links this to an increase in the number of violence and threats events, and I would like to stress that we need to get to grips with what has actually happened before we can discuss the reason. It is true that there has been a strong increase in registered violence and threats in the criminal justice system from 2014 to 2016. I share the concern for an increased number of violent and threatening episodes. At the same time, it is positive that there is work to raise the registration awareness, so that several events are actually recorded. The Ministry closely monitors developments in violence and threats, including: in the governance dialogue with the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. There was also a topic in the meeting between me and the professional organisations in the criminal service in mid-February. It is important that the Directorate cooperates with the trust and protection services on measures to reduce the number of violence and threat incidents. A group of parties, including the Directorate, the Protection Service and the Trade Unions, has also been set up to coordinate the work on action. I have a great deal of understanding that the red tape and efficiency reform is perceived as a challenge to criminal justice, but the reform is not specific to criminal justice; it applies to all state agencies. I insist that requirements for efficiency improvement should not compromise with the security of prison, and despite the reform, figures from the Directorate show that there is no decline in prison service in 2016, compared to 2013. However, the Ministry will follow up and analyse the follow-up to the reform in criminal matters and its consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2244	I also expect them to take those reports seriously and act in line with what they say. The Labour Party has pointed out the concerns several times, while the government did not even mention violence and threats in the 2016 budget – i.e. 1,048 in 2016. ‘To say that it is too early to say that increases in violence and threats are related to resource access is naive and blue-eyed. Now we need politicians, KDIs and leaders to open their eyes and act so that we can all go to work and feel safe that we come home as a whole and that prisoners are well cared for!" This was written by a prison officer at the crime scene Frode G. Hermansen in Aftenposten, March 4. Does the state council think the jailer doesn't know what he's talking about? And what will the government do to ensure that employees in Norwegian prisons do not feel unsafe at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2256	I think we should be a little careful to connect these two things as quickly as I see parts of the opposition do. The representative clearly links this very serious incident, killed, in a Norwegian prison with conditions that are not necessarily related. It is important for me to stress that the staffing of Norwegian prisons per detainee is about the same today as it was in 2013. In the case of Ringreichen incarceration, crews have remained unchanged since 2009. The crew at the prison is 155.5 years old, and the crew on the day this incident happened was the same thing as on a regular Saturday at the department where the killing happened. I'm asking for restraint to connect these things together. But it does not change that this is a very serious matter, which has to be followed up appropriately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2265	I record that the Council of State is not willing to listen to what employees say. There were employees in the prison service I referred to. We are also aware that there have been several complaints from employees to the criminal services department. We in the Labour Party have asked questions about the last few years' budgets relating to the increase in violence, and we have heard the same answer every single time: we follow closely. Then we feel that there is no reporting of the consequences of the cuts that the government has done in criminal matters, and that is what the Labour Party is asking for. What are the consequences of the coup d'états, and can he guarantee that they are not linked to violent and threatening events that have increased in number?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2272	I perceive that I was very clear on the seriousness of this case and the seriousness of the recorded increases in the number of violent and threatening events. I have also been in contact with the trade unions about that, as I said. We take this very seriously, but to say that a reform of efficiency implemented in the public sector creates a more dangerous situation and in any way implies that more incidents of this kind will happen, I will take a great deal away from it. But this is followed up with the seriousness you have to follow up with. We will also do that in the further work, and I'm assuming, as I've done all along, that the savings made are not going to be at the expense of security. And it's good that we now actually have an overview of violence and threats in Norwegian prison, because there was no one of course just a few years back in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2285	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice and Defence the following questions: ‘It came as a great surprise to the police and the Police College when it was included in the government’s list of further work on the relocation of state jobs. The school has built up a district policy profile with departments in Bodø, Stavern and Kongsvinger, as well as the main base in Oslo. Now that the government will investigate the outsourcing of the school, there is considerable uncertainty about the school's future and strategies. What is the government's reason for starting a work to investigate the relocalisation of the Police College?»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2294	The government will facilitate growth and development throughout the country. Dissemination of competences is one contribution to strengthening the knowledge environments regionally. It is important to create a more balanced location of state jobs across the country while ensuring good quality in all government services. State jobs can contribute to a more dynamic, well-functioning labour market with better recruitment opportunities for businesses and better career opportunities for workers. The location plan for State workplaces was presented on 17 February, as reported in the Notice. St. 18 for 2016-2017 Resilient cities and strong districts. The plan mentions, inter alia: the types of tasks, functions and units planned or assessed to be relocated. One of these concerns the activities of the Police College in Oslo. The Ministry of Justice and Defence launches an investigation into relocating the activities of the Police College in Oslo. The future capacity needs of the Police College as a whole are under assessment and need to be seen in the context of the very issue of location. In 2019 or 2020, we will achieve the target of two police officers or women per 1,000 inhabitants. It would therefore be natural to assess the size of the student inclusion in the 2018 budget. If there is a reduction in the admission, this could also have an impact on the places where you can take bachelor’s training. This is an investigation that starts now, where this is also included. The assessment of relocation shall be made in line with the investigative instructions and in line with guidelines for State employment and service production.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2303	I thank you for your answer. There is just a spread of competences that the Police College is good at. They've built satellites in Stavern, Kongsvinger and Bodø, which have become big units gradually, and they have the school in Oslo. Some of the advantages of this model are the high level of competence available in Oslo, with lecturers/teachers from large police agencies such as Oslo Police District, Ecokrim, Kripos, PST, etc. It has access to it and has experience from the most complex crime scene in the country, which you have in the Oslo area, and in which the police high school students get to participate. So the competence built up in the Oslo police high school environment is spread through satellites and through the fact that students are gradually going into practice across the country – it is spreading across the country. So there's a lot of good reasons, when it comes to building skills and disseminating skills, for having Police College in Oslo. So I miss a more precise reason for this case, and not just in general about jobs in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2310	This is precisely what the representative, Mr Bøhler, points to. That's why I'm concerned that we have a thorough, proper investigation here, which we have in all such cases, just to identify the needs and consequences of the investigation. This is not a left-hand job. We're not doing this type of operation, relocation of jobs, without being sure it's for the best. So I think we should be careful to pre-conclude what the outcome of the investigation is, because this is an investigation that should be based on knowledge, which should be based on goals that are about the police's ability. And I think that these relationships that the representative addresses will also be reflected in the investigation, as part of the decision-making basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2317	Thanks also for the additional response. I'm glad the Council of State says that he takes the points seriously, and that it will come out in the investigation. What's my concern is that you start such a big process, because this creates a lot of uncertainty and instability in an environment that's very important to us, the high school police community. It's over 400 with part-time employees working there, and about 2,000 students, who are at school in Oslo. So it creates a lot of uncertainty. You can't just take something out of the air and put it into a context like this, which will be dramatic to them for a long time, and so I think that behind the decision to put them on the list there should be a clear way of thinking. I start to fool myself when I see that Elvestuen, a representative from the Left, who is working with the government on this plan, was out in a local in Groruddalen and said that the Police College should be in Groruddalen. So are such options also included in the assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2326	In no way has the location been pre-defined here, and that is the whole reason why we carry out an investigation. I have a great deal of understanding of the uncertainty that employees may feel when they experience that they need to investigate future location – which may have an impact on individual employees. I have a great deal of understanding for that. But I also think it is preferable to do the work done on the relocation of public jobs, that we carry out these proper, thorough, good investigations. And then, at the end of the day, it's the professional arguments that have to be taken into account, balanced against the need for job relocation. Then I believe that we should all see ourselves served with open processes that provide a good knowledge base.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2333	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-08.ana.ud40e2346	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
