ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e67	The called alternate of the Nordland County, Tor Arne Bell Ljunggren, now takes the seat. The representative of Arild Grande shall apply for parental leave from 1 March to 26 March. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Jorid Holstad Nordmelan, is proposed to meet in Stortinget from 7 March to 23 March. – It is also considered to be adopted. The representative of Ola Elvestuen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e87	I have the pleasure of presenting a proposal for a representative on behalf of myself, Trine Skei Grande, Iselin Nybø and André N. Skkelstad on the publicity of the land-use study.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e92	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e97	On behalf of the representatives of Kirsti Bergstø, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on a seismic-free area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e102	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e107	On behalf of Mr Kirsti Bergstø and myself, I would like to put forward proposals for the winding-up of the au pair system and for stronger reactions to host families exploiting au pairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e112	The representative, Anders Tyvand, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e117	On behalf of the representatives of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Olug V. Bollestad, Hans Fredrik Gruvan and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to introduce county or regional bullying agents.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e123	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e143	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e152	I would first like to thank the Committee on good cooperation and a good process. It has been tried to reach agreement, and although we have not succeeded in everything, we have managed to agree on some simplifications, partly on other simplifications, at the same time as a majority has also rejected other government proposals. The proposals agreed by the entire Committee, which will also streamline the planning process, are intended to enable municipalities to stop planning initiatives prior to alerting and announcing level launch and a clearer and more formalised framework for the start-up of the planning process, more committed dialogue and early clarifications. These two simplifications will allow plans to be stopped at an early stage, which, in the first place, is unlikely to occur, and a good deal of procedure will be omitted around it. There is also agreement on the establishment of a voluntary authorisation scheme for enterprises that draw up private planning proposals, the repeal of a central recognition scheme for regional planning strategies and simpler rules for the roll-out of regional action programmes. Also, these simplifications make the plans, after they have been adopted, come into the process earlier and can start to work, so that you get a faster procedure in these fields. In addition, a large majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, are for amendments proposed to simplify the rules on amendment and repeal of regulatory plans. This too is an important simplification, especially to be able to cancel old plans. We know that there are many old plans around the municipalities, at least those of us who have been rapporteurs before. The reason why they like to lie down is that according to the previous law you had to do it the same way you did when you set up plans, and then you would like to not take that job. Now you simplify it, which makes you clean up some old plans that are probably in the drawer, and that's good. In addition, there should also be some simplifications in the plans themselves. It's also a good thing. On the other hand, with regard to the amendments to the proposal that, as a general rule, private proposals complying with local and regional planning should be sent out to the public, the Right and the Advance Party should remain on their own. We believe that it would make sense to have such a simplification if you see this in the context of the first simplifications we're doing, namely that the municipalities can stop plans at a much earlier stage that would not otherwise lead to. It would make sense for existing legislation to be consulted. It must be said that the municipalities, if they want, can change the plans along the way and make them their own. It's just a right to get them out. Furthermore, we do not get a majority for simplifications in the exemption provisions either. Here too, the Right Party and the Advance Party stand alone. Simplifications in the legal dispensation provisions will help reduce resource use and increase the local authority's capacity to act in such cases. In addition, amendments have been proposed because the current provisions are unnecessarily complicated to apply and, I would add, that important societal considerations can be emphasised in the dispensation assessment. But, as I said, unfortunately, we do not have a majority here. We think it would make sense to clear up these exemptions. It would have given the municipality more room for action, and we could have avoided far more dispensation requests than we have today. The same applies to the proposal to clarify the transitional provision for plans in the coastal zone without a construction boundary. After the amendment of the law that came in 2008, there has been a divergence in the understanding of the law in force. The Ministry’s view is that construction limit requirements do not apply to plans drawn up in accordance with previous planning and building laws. In a 2015 opinion, the Civil Ombudsman has taken the opposite view, and it is important to prepare the jigsaw around it. Whether you have to think of it as something or not, it's important that this is made clear. It's now being done. We think it would have been right to have the way the ministry interpreted this provision, that the older plans should be valid, so that these provisions are not given retroactive effect. It is reasonable that the plans already adopted apply and that, as regards amendments and new plans, the new provisions which entered into force in 2008 will apply. With these words, I am promoting the proposals that the minority have raised in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e171	The representative Odd Henriksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e176	As the case rapporteur for the 2008 Law on the Law on Planning and Buildings, a person might express a certain love for the law, because it is an important foundation that regulates some clearly important issues. It is important to stick to it, and I also feel that today's government has actually done through the bill it has presented. For this reason, the Labour Party also supports many of the proposals that have been put forward, which are intended to simplify in the first place. We are for that. Promises and rules should be simplified, to the extent that it makes sense, and to the extent that it does not affect any other party or third party. That's where the discussion has actually been and is in this case. I would like to add some important premises and principles in relation to the Planning and Building Act: Point 1: In my opinion, the municipality is primarily responsible for land management and how the land is disposed of, used or built. It is an important principle, but of course it must be done within a set of national legislation. Point 2: All land management, use and construction must be done mainly by plan, and not by individual decisions or derogations. And point 3 – the third principle: we have to take responsibility for tomorrow through a sustainable land management where the universal right, the availability and care of natural diversity and the individual are the leaders. It is often the case that if you go into discussions about what might be one of the cores of the dispute in the matter that is now under way, the freedom of dispensation, it may seem very easy to make decorations in this, because it will benefit someone. At the same time, however, there may be restrictions on others, and one derogation could lead to the destruction of the basis of a spatial plan. We've seen that in practice in many places -- some cases are very small, others a little bit larger, a little more controversial. Discussions, e.g. on the height of buildings, is it relevant? Can it be exempted, does it have any meaning? I want to say yes, that it is quite essential, especially if it affects others, which is not part of an exemption application. Another example we had in one of the great places along the Telemarks coast, Brevik, Øya in Brevik, great southern settlement with old red brick on the roofs, where it was more and more interesting for those who would change the roof, to put this as glazed red roofstone. Does this matter? It was made on dispensation. So immediately you can say that this obviously doesn't matter. But of course it has a meaning, because it changes the nature and origin of the whole island of Brevik. This could be an example of where, after dispensation, land management and management violate the principles of the plans and would be unfortunate for the totality and destructive of those who follow up on what is the basis of the plans. So that's a pretty substantial principle. Therefore, we are opposed to the adjustments that relate specifically to extending access to use a derogation. But then there have been some discussions that are interesting in connection with this, for example. marine organisation, minor adjustments in the aquaculture sector. We have received a report from Seafood Norway that one should perhaps take into account the dispensation of food production on sea and land. I would say that within the exemption regulation already in force in the existing law, it must also be up to the government to have very good and close contact with the statesmen that they handle this in a good way for the aquaculture industry, and that one does not come into situations where one feels that the countymen have one, we say, different and irresponsible approach to exemption in relation to this issue. So, in our opinion, there is full access to do within the current legislation, as it exists. Then there has been a considerable public commitment to the committee's treatment around § 21-7, deadlines with special effects, where the commitment is primarily directed towards the fear that some conservation buildings will be demolished before the municipality can impose a ban on it. There we have come to the conclusion that we support what is the Government's amendment and addition, and we stand by what is the committee's position. So we are behind the overall position of the committee, which we think is a good attitude, where we say yes to a lot, but also no to the unfairness that might arise in the form of the legislative amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e195	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good job in a slightly demanding process in the committee. It can be illustrated that the last proposal came and was put on the table today. So I want to give credit to the government for presenting this proposition, because the legislative proposals have a background in government's work on a simpler everyday life for most people, like, among other things. aims at eradicating time thieves and simplifying current legislation. The proposition made by the government will simplify and streamline planning processes in order to better facilitate housing and economic and social development. The government also wants to ensure a good framework for business with a view to making building faster, cheaper and easier, and the aim is rapid, efficient and predictable public good-quality procedures. It is adopted annually approx. 2 000 municipal regulatory plans, in which case it is important that there should be a significant reduction in the time taken by the municipal authorities. In addition, the aim must be to streamline planning processes until final planning proposals are available, so that the overall planning time is significantly reduced. What is now seen is that there is no consensus in the Committee on all the proposals that the government has made. Clearly, it matters. What's been our goal is to make things easier and more reasonable in these construction processes. There are a lot of considerations to take. Some municipalities would have reduced the processing time by between 30 and 50 p.m., and that would have been of great importance for young people entering the housing market. Young people entering the housing market are a theme that I think all parties are interested in rhetorical, but when there are concrete proposals in Stortinget, it stops a little bit in that way. For business, it is important to have predictable and simple planning processes so that businesses can spend the least resources on bureaucracy and more time on value creation, in other words more on the job. I think I should be allowed to refer to the statement that is in the Financial Newspaper today, where Ove Trellevik shows specifically what this will mean for Hordaland with three examples in terms of the farming industry. It illustrates in a good way the problems you face, the challenges that the government wants to solve, what this can mean for value creation, and what this can mean for jobs along the coast. Again: Many parties are strong on exactly that rhetorical, but when it comes to following this up in concrete proposals in the Storting in order to make these processes more effective and speed up, one jumps off the load. I'm pretty sure when we get to the election campaign, the government will of course get to criticise that you haven't done more to make it more efficient and simpler, but when you're in this room, you vote against it. That's too bad. We think it is important to delegate power and authority to the lowest possible popular level. We believe that political reason is evenly distributed across the country, and that the elected level locally is able to discharge their responsibilities and duties. Local self-government must also be given greater importance through the local reform and more trust through the governance signal to the State. It's been important for this government, and that's also what this proposition has made. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for all the good proposals in the matter, but that responsibility is given to the majority who do not support them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e212	Let me first say that working with the Planning and Building Act is demanding for both politicians and government. This law directly intervenes in people's everyday lives, for example. when a house dream is to be realized or the family business needs more space for increased production and marketing. Balancing different considerations with each other, both in the design of the legal text itself and in the application of the law by the administration, will necessarily lead to groups and individuals feeling that their interests are not sufficiently safeguarded. Then it is also natural that the recordings are many and the opinions are strong when the Planning and Building Act is up to revision. I think that's what all party groups have noticed in the last few weeks. Our approach has been to be open to simplification, but that we do not fall into the trap that simplification can create problems – a slightly challenging balance, I have to say. Good land management is incredibly important both to ensure the development of commercial and residential areas and to ensure that the necessary considerations of nature, soil protection and cultural heritage are taken into account. We are pleased that the government has initiated a review of the law, with the aim of streamlining processes and eliminating unnecessary time thieves. But there's a little disagreement about where the limit of time theft goes. So we're going to go against some of the proposed changes. One of them is that we want to maintain the system that it is the municipalities that decide whether private regulatory changes should be sent to the hearing. This is obviously a task for local political authorities, and we will not be involved in weakening the role of local authorities as planning authorities. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party is pleased that a Joint Committee has made provision for changes to existing plans to take account of important natural and outdoor areas. A central issue in the work on the proposed amendments to the Planning and Building Act has been the extent to which state and regional authorities will be able to express themselves before granting exemptions from plans and planning requirements. The provisions on dispensation and right of expression to state and regional authorities are set out in Section 19 of the Act, and here in the Christian People's Party we have stated that we cannot support the proposed amendments to Section 19-1 and Section 19-2. Like the other parties that make up the majority, we consider it unfortunate that the exemption legislation should be amended so that it becomes up to each municipality and its own discretion to decide whether a case is of national or regional interest and thus gives state and regional authorities the right to express their views. The application for a derogation must take account of the essential State and regional interests. We in the Christian People's Party are particularly pleased with the impact we have received on the fact that the consideration of soil protection is now included in the legal text through the majority's legislative proposal for a new third paragraph of Section 19-2, and is clarified in line with health, environment, safety and availability. Soil protection has long been important to the Christian People's Party. The size has also taken several decisions on this earlier, the most important of which is the decision in the autumn of 2015 on an ambitious soil protection strategy with a target of a maximum of 4000 decicars of cultivated land per year. It is therefore a natural consequence and absolute time that the consideration of soil protection is now included in the Law on Planning and Building. There are many examples of sudden degradation of food soils in many municipalities. This is irreversible interference on one of the most vital resources we leave behind for future generations. We in the Christian People's Party are very pleased that the Storting doesn't relax, but rather tightens up, opportunities for dispensation for the degradation of food soil. We are also pleased that the Storting is now lifting the law’s requirements for the central recognition of regional planning strategies. This is a strengthening of local self-government and implies that the planned strategy adopted is final through the decision of the county council. This is clearly the removal of an unnecessary time thief. Construction bans in the beach zone are also essential, especially in areas with strong pressure. That is why the Christian People's Party is part of the majority who oppose the government's proposal to actually facilitate access to building in the beach zone. We therefore also support the interpretation of the Civil Ombudsman's law, not the government's. Many requests have been made for changes to Section 21-7, which means that the municipality cannot provide a different plan basis for the processing of an application than the one in force at the end of the 12-week period for processing. We see that there may be arguments for the opposite, but in fact, we believe that the propriety of the person planning measures in accordance with the applicable spatial plan, law and regulation can expect that the application for building permits will be dealt with according to the legal situation at the end of the deadline for the treatment of the municipality. When, at the same time, the municipality as the administrative body is ensured that the right to take a decision on a temporary ban under Section 13-1 of the Act is maintained – provided that the decision is taken before the end of the 12-week period – we support the government's proposal to amend § 21-7 of the Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e231	There is no doubt that the Law on Planning and Building is a very important law in Norway — a law with which most of us, sooner or later, come into existence, either as builders, via business or otherwise. This is therefore the most important tool we have, both for local planning, for land management and for the development of settlements in Norway. It is also a law that needs to embrace a diversity of municipalities and places around our long-range country. It also makes the administration of the law not always easy. The centre party would like to stress that land management and planning are primarily municipal responsibility, and we believe that it is the diversity and the variation that you see in Norway that underlines the need for municipalities to have the primary responsibility for that type of management, and that the law is a framework in this way. The proposal put forward by the Government on simplifications in the Law on Planning and Building has been thoroughly discussed in the Committee. A thorough consultation has also been carried out in my opinion. A number of the proposals agree. A number of proposals consider most of them to be unproblematic and sensible, including: to clarify the ability of the municipality to stop proceedings and to plan early when the municipality considers that an initiative should not take place and that it will be both time-saving and simplifying. The possibility of providing a clearer and more formalized framework around the start-up of a planning process has also been a proposal that an aggregate accumulation finds reasonable. There are also some other rules, linked to planning companies, central approval and roll-out of regional plans and strategies, which have a unanimous committee behind them. There are some provisions in which the government has not obtained a majority, and perhaps in particular the question of the freedom of exemption and the dispute that has existed between the Ministry and the Civil Ombudsman on the interpretation of the legislation relating to the coastal zone. The majority have opted for a solution other than that proposed by the government, in which case they actually took a position on the small conflict that has occurred between the ministry and the Civil Ombudsman at one point and chose a different framework around the rules of exemption. I must also say that we in the Centre Party are pleased that it is now included directly in the third paragraph of Section 19-2 that one of the exemptions should pay particular attention to soil protection considerations. We hope that the fact that soil protection is now directly incorporated into the text will be important and hopefully have an impact on the question of caring for cultivated land. Some things have come up in the final phase of treatment. First of all, I think that the proposal that is on the table today, by the representative of Elvestuen on behalf of a majority, is a technical proposal. It was an input that came from the government parties sea, as a natural consequence of the solution chosen by a majority in this area. So it's probably not like the representative of Korsberg may have suggested, that it's kind of put on the table an urgent proposal at the end. There is more of a technical proposal that contributes to the orderly treatment of the other paragraphs for which there is a majority today. In the very last round, there has also been a significant action to change the view of the majority on the changes in sections 21 to 7. It is not quite fortunate when a complete person at the end of a treatment, after all the hearings and after the setting is written, gets that type of change. The centre party has also carefully considered the question now at the end and concluded that we do not choose to change our position on that point. We can see some of the moments that are being performed. We're a little bit uncertain about the whole country. There are probably some places — perhaps especially in Oslo — that there may be a problem. However, the responses that have been made make it particularly necessary to monitor the progress of the practice under this provision in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e254	First of all, I would like to raise a point of order. 5, which was described by the representative Arnstad. There is a technical adjustment in view of the fact that the number of committees does not support the government's proposal to Sections 12-11, which states that municipalities will continue to decide for themselves when private regulatory proposals are to be sent out to the hearing. Therefore, this adjustment is also needed in Section 33-1. The Planning and Building Act is a complicated law, and it's a lot to get into, but it has concrete consequences. On the left, we are pleased that the majority do not agree with the changes in the exemption provisions, we are pleased that we are getting a strengthening of soil protection, and that natural protection is also taken into account as in the past, and we support the Civil Ombudsman's interpretation of the law in relation to the beach zone. I want to use most of my article on § 21-7 and the changes that have been proposed there, namely changes that will allow municipalities even less time to ban measures and thus change a regulatory plan. I believe that this proposal is a significant weakening of local self-government, a weakening that started in 2002, when the Supreme Court passed a judgment deciding that a framework permit was the point of intersection of when a person could come with a ban on action and that a framework permit was made impractical. It was then contrary to the Justice Department's law department, which considered that the law in force should still be in place, namely that the municipalities had the right to prohibit until an action was taken. This decision in the Supreme Court has been a dispute since then, and it has made it harder to get in time, both from local stakeholders and from local governments, if they want to change an old plan. It was now assumed that the law was the framework permit, it was a simple decision, but the government and the majority now make time even worse to change. This means that in many more cases old regulatory plans will underpin what is to be done and the measures to be implemented. In larger municipalities, there are always hundreds of old plans adopted in the municipality, and their content will often not manifest until there is a demolition permit or a construction case. Then it must be possible for a local government to enter – also because you have a different view of what the regulatory plan should contain, because someone has a different composition of a local government – and change that plan. Now, with this change, one depends on having case handlers who in each case follow, take into account and make the right decisions by extending the length of the procedure, in order to make it possible at all to take a new political decision. For now it will be that if one does not do so, one in retrospect can set aside a unanimous city council, which cannot put an end to what in the old days was under a ban on construction and parts. The local government is being suspended from playing. One thing is the democratic discussion of construction matters and regulations. I believe it is important to have actors such as the Early Memory Association, well-being and citizens involved in urban development. When they disagree with proposals or measures to be implemented, they shall have the right to go and address them with their representatives on the Municipal Council, not necessarily in order to have an impact, but in order to have a debate and a vote. The system that the Stortinget has put in place in the past, that it is possible to have a citizens' initiative, where the same number of people can stand behind them, whether it is a city, a large municipality or a small municipality, will make it much more difficult to make use of it to enter and get a real discussion about whether construction is to be carried out or not, or whether we are going to change regulation plans. I think it is sad that we do not have a majority to stop also § 21-7. We should do that for the sake of local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e271	The representative of Ola Elvestuen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e276	Like some others, I would like to thank the rapporteur for letting us through in a good way. I think that the setting, as it has become, is much better than the government's proposal, although on our part we do not get an impact on everything we think. I notice that the slogan "an easier everyday life for most people" is being harassed, but I would say that letting that slogan trump what will be a good, knowledge-based administration is not a good idea. It is not in line with good knowledge-based management to change a law again without having completed the evaluation of how the previous legislative changes turned out. But here it is not knowledge that is at the heart of the government – I understand that this is rather a proposal to satisfy the wishes of large builders rather than to give room for good, democratic processes. I think that will also be the judgment of this government's planning and building law policy. I think the intention of simplification is a good idea – both to make it easier for the individual to have an overview and to deal with things and to reduce the work of the municipality and the administration with unnecessary plans. I think some of the proposals, which have also received a majority in the committee, are good, as the possibility for municipalities to stop plans. There is a system that our committee knows, among other things. from power deployments – and then we talk in particular about wind power – where we have given the government support and support to stop bad plans that we know will not be of. That's the exact same thing. It simplifies the burden on administration and makes it possible to use more force on what should be used, thus providing better service to good projects. Having voluntary, central recognition schemes, the possibility of making it easier to cancel old regulatory plans, and also to drop the impositions on the central planning strategies, are all things that I think will facilitate the work of the administration and make it possible to use resources on other things. But then there's this two-eyed sword in that it's going to be easier for the builder. I don't know if everyone here has been in a building council, but I do. That's where I started as a politician, the first time I was elected to a local government. The first discussion in the building council in Bergen took 45 minutes – I took the time – and it was about whether a builder would have the opportunity to build a roof terrace contrary to what was the agreed roof plan for Bergen. "Let the man build" was like the slogan to the Right. We spent 45 minutes on it and ended up with a situation where one had a plan that was thoroughly processed and well discussed, but where one builder had the opportunity to expand. Thus, we created an unsustainable legal situation when it came to non-discrimination, because if one had a friend in the building council, spent time and was a quarrelster, a clear one would trump the work that had been done on a broader scale, and without having a proper hearing on whether this was tricked or stupid. I don't think dispensing from general plans in that way is a good way to control. I think it is better that we have good democratic processes around plans – that we make plans, and then they are firm. It ensures equal treatment for people, it ensures that people know that OK, that's the way you have a plan and you get no, there's no point in taking a fight about this, then you better wait until the next time the plan is rolled. It is an advantage for the municipality and for everyone that it is not those who can afford to pay the most expensive lawyers, who get the opportunity to take the games. So let me just move on quickly to what's going on about the beach zone. There I am very pleased that a broad majority, the same majority as in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, is setting foot down for what is bad proposals and which certainly does not contribute to simplification. If the Council of State of Jan Tore Sanner had supported the interpretation of the law that he and the department have chosen by saying that building bans in the beach zone do not apply to old plans, this would have led to a significant reduction in the beach zone. It had not simplified the work for the municipalities, it had created an unwieldy legal situation, and it had potentially had adverse effects. There is reason to ask questions about what has done that Jan Tore Sanner has got this idea of going out with the whole of legal Norway and with the Civil Ombudsman to open up a change to the Beach Zone Act. Fortunately, we're going to put our foot down for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e292	This debate is basically about the slogan ‘Simplifying the everyday lives of most people’ against the basic purpose of the Law on Planning and Building: to safeguard the long-term interests of most people. It is easy enough to agree – including for the Greens – that, where it is possible to speed up the handling of construction materials and other measures, it is absolutely necessary to do so. The government has some suggestions here that we fully agree with. The proposal to allow municipalities to stop the treatment of private initiatives early in the planning process – as Eidsvoll Holmås described a moment ago – is sensible policies, sensible environmental policies and resource-saving simplification. The proposal to strengthen the launch meeting as the venue for providing feedback to the builder and to make it mandatory to report from this meeting is a good measure to provide better processes and early clarifications. The proposal to establish a central voluntary recognition system for enterprises that prepare private planning proposals is also such a tidy measure, which we support. Overall, however, the government’s proposal is part of a long-term development in order to facilitate both the threat of individual interests and, overall, the undermining of Norwegian nature. Fortunately, we have been halted – using an alternative majority here on Stortinget – some of the proposals that would lead to a poorer development for nature. Previous speakers have mentioned the proposal to focus unilaterally on previous decisions regarding the construction of the coastal zone. If so, we have had a comprehensive process in the Control and Constitutional Committee, where the Civil Ombudsman and a number of professionals have made it quite clear that this is a bad idea. Luckily, we're getting rid of it in this round. Nor will it be given a majority of proposals that would weaken the protection of nature, outdoor life and – initially – food soil. In addition to agreeing with the majority in these cases, the Environmental Party of the Greens – together with SV and Left – opposes the proposed amendments to § 21-7 because we believe that this will weaken local autonomy and give the municipality, i.e. people most, less time to take care of long-term interests. This is not good, democratic development. It may seem to be effective, but it is effective for the few, not for society as a whole. I would also like to draw attention to the proposal to lower the threshold for granting exemptions. With this proposal, the Government wishes to depart from the requirement to balance interests in individual cases and to leave it to the discretion of the municipality. In this case, I believe that the consultation input from the Norwegian Association of Tourists, the Norwegian Confederation of Hunters and Fishermen and several others gives a very good description. They say, among other things:\t\t You ‘We believe that proposals for a new derogation will contribute to a bit by bit to the reduction of natural and open-air areas and food soils. [[...]] The proposal undermines a predictable planning system to provide a basis for strategic policy leadership in land policy. Dispensation is an exceptional provision, and it shall be ‘heavy arguments to ‘to deviate from a plan. An opening for a much wider use of exemptions will shift political attention from overall to long-term to individual cases.’ It weakens the legal certainty of the general interest and the ability to use the Planning and Building Act as an instrument for, for example: climate and environmental policy. The point here is that we get an increasing focus on exemptions as normal and increasing time use in the case of exemptions, when we have actually adopted an overall policy that was supposed to be followed. This is in itself a bit-by-bit policy that has moved in that direction for a while, and it is a very poor policy for long-term overall planning and value conservation in Norway. Finally, I would like to congratulate the majority of the people who have grown up because, through the committee procedure, we have made sure that we are now putting a stop to that part of these proposals which will result in poorer preservation of long-term values in Norwegian areas. It is very nice that the decision to include soil protection as regards exemptions is now coming into place. It's a continuation of a soil protection discussion we've had here, which is now getting a concrete result. I think everyone should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e314	Let me first thank the Energy and Environment Committee for the vote. The Government is now implementing major simplifications in the Planning and Building Act and the Technical Regulations. The case of Stortinget today, which the government presented to Stortinget before the summer of 2016, is part of this simplification work. I am pleased that it is a majority that subscribes to important legislative changes to help streamline planning processes. The changes that are now being adopted are of great importance. They will meet much of the criticism from all those who believe the law is too complicated, and that this contributes to unnecessarily long planning times. Simplification proposals will help to make housing faster, cheaper and easier to build. For business, predictable and efficient planning processes are important so that businesses can spend the least resources on bureaucracy and more time on value creation. Let me also underline the importance that the municipalities themselves are now following up on the simplification work that magnification and government is accomplishing. The changes in the laws are important for all those to build, they are important for business, and they are not least important for all young people entering the housing market for the first time. Price developments in housing have been very high in several places, and it is therefore necessary to build more dwellings quickly in order to meet demand and reduce the price pressure, especially in the large urban areas. There is now a significant increase in granted building permits and a record high start-up of new dwellings. The statements and documentation we have received show that the government's housing strategy is working. It is equally crucial that municipalities continue to have pressure to regulate to more dwellings and economic areas in order to maintain the rate of expansion in the coming years. Many builders miss that the municipality shows ownership of the planning process and appears to be a real player. They also miss that the municipality takes a more active coordinating role, including: premature clarification of conflicting interests. Not least, developers lack a more solution-oriented planning process, where the parties agree early on on on the goal, how to get there, and that all actors involved actively contribute in the same direction. I am therefore particularly pleased that the Storting will now adopt legislative changes to make the start-up phase more predictable in the planning process. In the start-up phase, greater emphasis shall be placed on a binding dialogue between the municipality and the proposer in order to clarify the framework for further planning. This will reduce the possibilities for unforeseen events later in the planning process. Many municipalities are struggling today with old out-of-date control plans. Changes to the laws will make it easier to change plans in line with the need and to cancel up-to-date plans. This is important in order to be able to plan quickly for new dwellings and commercial buildings, and it is important for the population and for the competitiveness of industry. It is important for legal certainty and not least for local democracy. Municipalities should have greater local space for action in regulatory cases that do not conflict with important national and regional considerations. This question also applies in cases of derogation. There are many local politicians who express frustration over the state review of what is obviously smaller issues. I note the signals from the Workers' Party's representative, Terje Aasland, about exemptions in connection with farming matters, but it is quite clear that the proposal that the government has put on the table would give greater room for finding good solutions locally. I also welcome the opening-up of the proposal for a voluntary central approval system for planning companies. The proposal to repeal today’s requirements for the central approval of regional planning strategies and to remove the requirement for mandatory roll-out of regional action programmes will also contribute to significant simplifications. It is also in line with the proposal that municipalities should deal with construction matters on the basis of the plan in force at the end of the 12-week period during the construction proceedings. This means that the municipality cannot use a new planning basis or prohibit construction after the time limit for the proceedings has expired. I notice that there is no support for the government's proposal regarding the transitional provision in the law on old plans in the beach zone. Let me then just show that I, as the Council of State and the Government, have followed the practice of the Red-Green Government and the Board of Vegar Solhell, when he was Minister of the Environment, established. But I take note of Storting's decision today and will of course follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e346	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e351	One might have a dream that what we're doing now is to change the price picture of the homes and especially in the press areas. I don't think maybe there's any of these rule changes there. But that's not what I'm going to ask questions about. I'm glad the council had noticed what I said in my article on aquaculture, because we've discussed that quite thoroughly. There is no doubt that the adjustments, for example: referred to in the Financial Newspaper today by the representative Trellevik, full access to the exemption legislation should be provided for in current legislation. In the light of what the Council of State said, I also understood him there that it is possible, but that the government's proposal would of course grant a further exemption. So that doesn't agree with the population. But is the Council of State comfortable with the fact that what are issues raised especially from Hordaland can be resolved within today's legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e358	Let me first say that the proposals we are now making for simplification of planning processes will make a positive contribution so that we can build more quickly. This is part of a larger picture in which, over the last three years, the government has carried out extensive simplifications in the plan section, in the building section and in the technical regulations. It helps to raise the housing structure, and it also helps to reduce the costs. As far as the exemption legislation is concerned, I am convinced that it would be easier and better with the government's proposals. It would have given greater room for the municipalities, except where there is conflict with important regional and national considerations. That's where we agree. If there is room within today's rules, the ministry will follow up and look if possible. Of course, the ministry has to deal with the laws as they are laid down, but we'll see if it's possible to take advantage of the space for action there, in line with the signals given in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e365	My line comes in the extension of what the representative of Terje Aasland raised. It has become clear from the committee reading that the government will not have a majority for its proposals on amendments to Sections 19-1 and 19-2 of the Act. The Council of State and the government have to deal with that. We have also had the same kind of reactions as the Workers' Party to the exemption application for the farming industry, and that is especially the case with Hordaland. What is later to be a problem is that the practice of county authorities to deal with that type of dispensation request differs from state to state. Does the Council of State consider that the problem is so large and tactful that it should be followed a little more closely the practices of the different county offices in the case of dispensation applications from the farming industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e372	I now have a little experience that the bulk of the population is trying to push the problem over to the counties. Now the population has an opportunity to raise the threshold slightly for when the state is going to intervene. You could give the municipalities a bigger space for action. It could help to ensure that both the farming industry and local politicians could use their professional and democratic judgement. So I want to say that it's okay that the bulk of the population asks the Department and the Council of State to take advantage of the space for action, but it's also a little too simple when you have a legal basis that could give this opportunity. I meet frustrated local politicians from all parties who feel that it is unreasonable that the state intervenes in small cases – whether the roof should be inclined or right, whether it should be one roofstone or the other. It had now been possible to give local politicians some room for action, but of course we should also see if there is room within today's legislation to make better use of the space for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e379	I thank you for the article. It was really a contribution to the benefit of the largest developers in the country – not one word about participation, not one word about participation, not one word about planning and building law, which is the main legal basis for local, popular governance. The law requires both regulatory and construction matters to be dealt with politically. There is an impossibility of building things and not desirable and an impossibility in larger municipalities. It is therefore important that elected representatives also have the opportunity to intervene where there is disagreement in old regulatory plans. Then my question becomes: why does the Council of State think it is important that old regulatory plans, which may be out of date, be implemented, and that it is made more difficult to ban construction and parts if you want a change?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e386	First of all, my contribution is primarily about strengthening local democracy. It is about giving citizens greater opportunities to enter the housing market. There are too many municipalities that have spent too much time preparing construction premises, and this has helped to drive up the price pressure on new dwellings. Then there is a question of the 12-week time limit in the construction proceedings, and whether to deal with the law that applies at the end of the time limit. I agree with the representative of Elvesuen that it is important that the municipalities have the opportunity to think about it, but the question is, how long should you think? Here you have a 12-week period – three months the municipality can use this. And then you can ban construction and parts and get another eight weeks, i.e. a total of five months on this case. Here, it is simply a matter of whether the municipalities have to be dealt with more quickly, so that both action holders and others have clear rules to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e393	It is precisely the case handler that you will depend on to see this possibility. In this case, there may be a conflict with the extension of the duration of proceedings. It will be the case that municipalities will react to this change, and will have to make assumptions that require a desire to impose more prohibitions on construction and parts – and preventative prohibitions on construction and parts – and to put in place arrangements to ensure that several cases have a longer period of time to deal with this. Does the Council not see that it would have been better to have a clearer regulation, where one had a greater chance of getting in, than that one now gets a tightening that can actually make one get a more complicated procedure, and that more matters have to be put on hold than with previous legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e400	My answer to that question is no. I believe it is high time that local politicians also made tougher demands on their case handlers and that matters were dealt with more quickly. The three-month period for dealing with these cases is three months, in which case the respondent, the builder, must be able to deal with the legislation in force at the end of the time limit. It is also the case that the changes we are now implementing are implemented in the light of criticism from the Civil Ombudsman, because the municipalities suddenly change the legislation after the deadline. The representative of Elvesuen has on several occasions been concerned that the government and department should follow the Civil Ombudsman's criticism of matters. We do that when we follow up on this matter. I also agree with the importance that the municipalities have up-to-date plans. This will be the best basis for avoiding the type of issues raised by the representative Elvesuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e408	Just for the post to Jan Tore Sanner – and then I have a specific question about something slightly different in the end: it's that if you see the housing price increase in the country, it's all because of things other than the fact that the construction costs have gone up. The construction costs – according to the last table that I saw – represent about one third of the building price growth and cannot explain at all the growth that has occurred in the housing price in Oslo, at 25 p.m., during the last year. What the Council of State does will weaken the quality and give builders the opportunity to cut the turn much more than they do today, and does not help to weaken housing prices and reduce housing price growth, but it does above all mean that more of the money is going to end up in the pockets of the builders. This may be a desired policy, but I don't think it's a good policy, and many of the serious players in the industry say the same thing. My question is: does the Council of State see that the downside, with some of the changes proposed – some of them he does not get through, and some of them he gets through – is a weakening of the ability of people to use their right to local democratic agitation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e417	On the contrary, the proposals we are promoting strengthen local democracy. The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås stands for are state interests. What I want is to give greater influence, greater space for action, for the municipalities. We are concerned with quality, we are concerned with good practice, we are concerned with involvement. But the question is where this threshold is going to go, and at what level state interests are going to intervene. Of course, with regard to important regional and national considerations, which relate to the coastal zone, which concerns cultivated and arable land, which is about outdoor interests and cultural memories, there should be the possibility for state authorities to intervene, but at the same time we want to give greater room for local democracy and to have good quality on the buildings being built.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e424	I think that was a slightly helpful answer, and I'll explain why. It's not just the state's ability to raise objections or the kind of things that we've heard here, that I'm concerned about, but I'm also concerned about the ability of the population to engage in these kinds of plans. It's about being heard, it's about being listened to. Wide-ranging plans, concrete plans, and regulatory plans have often made it clear that very many interests have been given the opportunity to comment. This is cut to a much greater extent with some of the changes proposed — some of them will not be adopted. But one of the things we've heard is crossed against § 21-7. I can't remember from my time in the committee having experienced that so many good associations and others have written in and said that this is a change that they feel will weaken their ability to have influence. What I want to ask the Council of State is whether he will, as Marit Arnstad recommended, have a special view of how these changes in § 21-7 will turn out, and whether it will weaken the ability of local democracy to act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e431	It is always the case that the Ministry and Government follow up on the consequences of the changes that are being made, and it will always be the case that the Storting can re-examine the questions if you want to. We are concerned that different interests should be heard, but there are also questions about how much space there should be for rematches when things are resolved. What we are now implementing is changes that allow municipalities to use their planning judgement on the scope of consultations. If you, for example, want to re-regulate a parking space into a kindergarten, or if you want to build a floor or two higher to facilitate young people entering the housing market, you will of course have to be consulted, but it is also in the interests of society that we get the map down on the processes and during the planning period, so that we can facilitate more young people entering the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e438	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e445	There are many here who are pleased with the legislative amendment that we are discussing today, and many of us would like to welcome it warmly. What is a little sad and unfortunate is, of course, that we don't get multiple numbers to change the rules of the Planning and Building Act on exemptions. There are others here who have suggested that it has had adverse effects on, among other things. the aquaculture industry. So it was shown here, both from the SV and from the Workers' Party, how bad it could have been if one had extended the option of granting a dispensation. It focused on some things in Hordaland. I would like to tell you a little about these copies. In Hardanger there is a breeder who drives inside a fjord. Just where he has his locality, it's a bit of a bad stream, and it could be a little deeper – as it's a little further out in the spring. He does not receive a derogation to move this plant a little, so that it could be better both for the environment and for fish health. Another breeder wants to use a new ring around the site he has – and must have a slightly larger area to get it to – in order to use mechanical leaching. He's not allowed to do that either, so he has to keep using chemicals, with the disadvantages this has for the environment. So he does not get a derogation from using modern methods to operate his farm, which provide the environment in a much better way. A third breeder got his plant in North Hordland wrecked in a storm. It was a steel plant. He wanted to go over to the patching, which requires a little bit more space on the sea surface. Nor will he be allowed to do so, so he has to build a new steel plant, with the costs it costs. One cannot wait for a new municipal plan or regulation plan, so he must build a new steel plant and put it out, obviously at the risk of the old technology falling into the next storm. So there's a danger of new escape, instead of using new, modern technology and reducing the danger of both escape and escape. A fourth breeder has its locality defined. It's a request from the Defense that he terminates his activity, or moves, because of his defence needs. I fully respect their defence needs, that's not what's going on. The problem is that when the municipalities around them want to offer land, they need a derogation from the State, and they simply don't. It is also very regrettable. And it's not that these have been processes that haven't been democratic. It has our good processes, it has our hearings. That's actually what makes the County Council sit on its back here as well, because of course it can also have some negative consequences, but the sum of these is that it's a positive effect for society as a whole. I think it's very strange that the majority here might say that it's possible to do this within the current legislation, when the County Council both in Sogn and Fjordane and in Hordaland claim that it's actually not possible. Then I think it is sad that the majority today do not take advantage of the possibilities and vote for the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e460	With regard to the prohibition of action, the Council of State states quite simply that it must be possible for a municipality to decide and make amendments within three months. It may seem reasonable, but I would like to illustrate a little bit what problems you are facing. Norway's largest regulatory plan is the small-hue plan in Oslo. It has 18,000 properties – 18,000 properties are within it. It is completely impossible to have a detailed up-to-date control plan for 18 000 properties that addresses all issues. It is clear that in that area there are many protective buildings and many things that need to be looked at, and that both the inhabitants around have an interest in, and of which elected people, whether in urban areas, in the urban development committee or in the city council, have an interest. And when it comes to following up on these issues, it's only when the construction case comes, and the request for a demolition permit, that the issue comes up. And to get time here – one thing is to know about the matter. Then you have to ask a question, and maybe you have to put it in a local district committee, and you have to have it up in the urban development committee, and then you have to have a procedure – before you decide on a building and sharing ban, if any, or a ban on action, to start a new planning process. It is clear that there is a terrible lack of time here if this is to be dependent on a 12-week deadline. Very often, the discussion will be about being late instead of having a discussion about the content of the various proposals. It is difficult enough as it is today that there is a framework permit that applies, but it will be even more difficult when this goes through. I think it's a little strange about the Center Party and the Workers' Party, as back in 2007, when you looked at the new Law on Planning and Building, just took up this question, and then went in to see if you should go back to old law practice – that it was when the action was started, which was to be a border area for when you could put down a construction and part ban. So today you're voting for the opposite. At the end of the day, I also think it should be borne in mind that in construction matters there are great values that are decided – in every decision. It's big values it's all about. Whenever decisions are taken at the procedural level, there is a case handler, who does not even have to make a decision here – compared to spending too much time – I believe that planning and building laws are made even more vulnerable to the possibility of defaults. Then a decision can be made, it will bring great economic benefits, and even a unanimous city council can not succeed in overseeing and stopping the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e471	I think the representative Trellevik's posts were a very good example of why it is important to hold on to the opportunities for municipalities and counties to take the time needed to deal with measures in a thorough manner, and to say stop when it is necessary to say stop. Trellevik uses three to four examples of measures where authorisation will have a positive environmental impact. I cannot determine how comprehensive Trellevik's description of these matters is, given that the County obviously has a different opinion, perhaps also of the environmental impact. However, the point is that this applies to cases in Hardanger, which is the area in Norway where farming has obviously been poorly managed, where too many permits have been granted to over-site sites — i.e. for unloaded practices, too few objections, too little consideration for long-term environmental requirements and for interests other than farming interests. I think that we are now seeing just how the government's proposal is being used to promote interests which, on a broader scale, do not serve the public, and which may be measures that should be stopped in concrete terms as well, as has been done by the authorities, for example. in this case in Hardanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e476	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e496	It is a short and unanimous setting. The matter we are going to deal with has not created the major headlines in the media, but I believe that Minamata deserves a post, and that is why, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I would still like to have an article on the matter today. It is true that there are some issues that are not characterised by a lot of mention, but they may have important content anyway. And then there are no party political tensions in this matter, it is a completely unanimous Committee on Energy and the Environment that gives the vote, even then with the agreement of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I want to pay tribute to all parties here in the Chamber and to all those who have worked on this matter in different governments, so that together we contribute to drawing the international work against mercury pollution an important step forward. Norway has played an important role in the implementation of the Convention, and everyone shall have his or her share of the credit for it. Minamata, who has given the name of the convention we are dealing with today, is a small town south of Japan. It is just a few miles from the more famous city of Nagasaki. Minamata has borrowed her name for a disease, a neurological disorder that comes from mercury poisoning. The disease was discovered in 1956, after a local petrochemical plant had for several years sent untreated waste water containing mercury into the Bay of Minamata. We're talking about a fishing town, and the main food source for those who lived there was marine fish and shellfish, and as we all know, mercury accumulates in the food chain. What happened in Minamata was one of the first and most serious cases of pollution, which in turn led to serious illness and death. This matter attracted considerable international attention and led to new and stricter rules on industrial emissions. The main objective of this Convention is to reduce the extraction, placing on the market, use and release of mercury. The Minamata Convention covers the entire life cycle of mercury – from extraction, use and emissions to temporary sustainable waste management. I would like to mention that Norway's ambitious national regulation of mercury on a number of occasions has been highlighted as a good example during the Convention negotiations. From Norway’s point of view, the Convention has been negotiated with a view to establishing minimum requirements, but at the same time it opens up the possibility for all countries to have stricter regulation of mercury nationally than that envisaged by the Convention, and Norway has. I am pleased that Norway can now ratify the Minamata Convention, and that we are thus putting ourselves in the line of countries that can contribute to a new international regime in this field. The Convention will enter into force 90 days after it has been ratified by 50 countries, and hopefully we will be there during the harvest coming, because on 1 February Lichtenstein ratified the agreement, as No. 37 in the sequence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e509	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e525	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e534	The representative proposal we are examining today is a proposal to have a biofuel escalation plan that does not lead to consumption of biofuels with low climate benefits, to take into account the carbon debt issue when calculating the climate impact of biofuels, to develop a plan that includes a hierarchy of needs that ensures that available bio-resources are used in such a way that the climate benefits are maximised and to ensure that biofuels traded in Norway are subject to EU sustainability criteria from 1 July 2017. There is an overall committee that points to the need to invest in sustainable fuels. We know that there will be fossil cars again on Norwegian roads for many years to come, even if it is focused on facilitating zero-emission cars, and we have previous decisions in this room that are ambitious for the sale of zero-emission cars and the phasing out of fossil cars. The aim of the increase in biofuels is to cut greenhouse gas emissions. In all the scenarios on which the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is based, they require the highest and increased use of biomass globally. The harvest is intended to increase by 51-200 pst. in the scenarios developed by the climate panel in its latest report and the use of modern bioenergy must be at least fivefold in order to achieve the two-degree target. There is currently considerable knowledge, and there is nothing wrong with identifying and gaining knowledge, but it is important to start investing in the production of biofuels in Norway now. There are estimates of supply and demand for bioenergy and biofuels in Norway, among others. by the Directorate-General for the Environment in their low-emission report of 2015. The resource potential for biomass in Norway has also been identified by NVE in 2014. The estimated potential for biomass for energy purposes in 2020 has a realistic potential of around 23 TWh and in 2023 the resource potential is estimated to be around 30 TWh. The forest has the highest potential for producing biofuels. It is important that the applicable environmental requirements are taken into account and assessed against 10 pst. forest protection and a sustainable forestry plan in the long term. It is an overall committee that underlines the assumption that biofuels are sustainable and meet the EU sustainability criteria. This has also been promoted in this Chamber in the past, without the deadline in proposal No. 1, which we're going to vote for today. In dealing with this representative proposal from Rasmus Hansson, I have met with several, with the environmental movement, distributors and bioenergy producers. The people I meet are making a clear call: we have enough investigations, we have enough facts, now we need to get it right, and we need to start producing biofuels in Norway. Finally, I would like to stress that it is important that the public debate on biofuels should not be so one-sidedly marked by scepticism and resistance that the facts and nuances of this debate disappear, and that it in turn leads to uncertainty among market players about choosing to produce or choosing to use biofuels at all have political support from the majority, or from everyone in this Chamber. So the Labour Party does not support the proposals that we are going to vote on today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e551	Increased use of biofuels is an important part of the solution for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector – provided that the biofuel has been produced in a sustainable way. The State budget for 2017 has decided to increase the turnover requirement for biofuels from 5.5 pst. to 7 pst. and with the aim of increasing the requirement to 20 pst. by 2020. In order to achieve these objectives, it is important to facilitate the growth of biofuel production in the country as well. We must create predictability for market players, so that they dare to bet. We need to come up with facts that build on the positive actions, so that the impression doesn't become scepticism and resistance. Norway has great opportunities to increase the production of sustainable biofuels and bioenergy. The Environment Directorate has estimated a long-term potential in 2030 of 56,5–64,5 TWh of primary energy from forest raw materials, agricultural waste, other waste and used vegetable oil and fat residues. In other words, in an annual logging of 13 to 15 million cubic metres, there is an unused biomass potential of around 30 TWh that will be available in 2030. Almost 80 pst. Of this volume, forest raw materials, half of which are branches and peaks, so-called GROT, which are usually left behind after peaks, as well as grubbing-up. In this way, a horticultural field will also become more accessible as open air areas, and one may be replanted in the past, which also contributes to greater forest production. Both the forest notification and the bioeconomy strategy present government policies for sustainable, efficient and profitable use of renewable biological resources. The proposer also requests the development of methodology to take account of the carbon debt issue when calculating the climate impact of biofuels. Norway does not have the possibility, through the EEA Agreement, to make use of its own classification rules for biofuels, including any methodology to take account of carbon liabilities in the sustainability criteria, other than those already recognised by the Member States in the internal market. Therefore, the Right will not support the minority’s proposal to require all biofuels traded in Norway to meet sustainability criteria, as we believe that this would be contrary to the overall harmonisation clause of the Fuel Quality Directive. Norway is a forerunner of stricter sustainability criteria for biofuels and has on several occasions been a spokesman for tightening up the criteria. This applies in particular to biodiesel produced from oil crops such as rapeseed, soya and palm. The Minister for Climate and Environment addressed the sustainability criteria with the climate and energy commissioner on 4 March last year, and Norway has also made representations in the EU consultation on revised renewable directives. Furthermore, Norway has taken a strict line in classifying raw materials for the production of biofuels through the classification of PFAD as a by-product of the production process. Through the biofuel escalation plan up to 2020, we are proposing to increase the share of advanced biofuels, which provides the most secure climate impact. Through our climate and forest efforts, we also work for more sustainable production of palm oil, which can make biofuels more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly. The need for sustainable biofuels will grow in the years ahead. The Government assesses turnover requirements for sustainable biofuels in aviation traffic and shipping. It requires greater production and action, which is well-informed by the government. Now it is important to create predictability and optimism for manufacturers, so that we can deliver on what we demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e566	Biofuels are a complex field, with many considerations to be taken into account. On the one hand, we need more climate friendly fuels, on the other hand, not all biofuels are climate friendly. Furthermore, we have EEA rules that regulate this. The contingency plan adopted in the context of the budgetary agreement is ambitious. It is demanding and not straightforward to implement. It will require significant innovation in sustainable fuels and significant investments. It is important to stress that ambitious targets, and not least predictability, are a prerequisite for success. Norway has a high potential in biofuels, for both green and blue carbon. But we have not had predictability in the framework conditions for biofuels. Now we can read about several private actors who invest large sums in the production of sustainable biofuels, precisely because we have an ambitious escalation plan. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we have predictability in the framework conditions that facilitate investment and innovation. This is a necessity to cope with a green shift. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not want to create uncertainty about the long-term framework conditions two months after their adoption, and therefore does not support the proposals. I shall not, however, turn down the representative proposal from the representative of Mr Hansson. I agree with the representative that sustainable management means that biomass will be a limited resource in the future. It is also possible that sooner or later we will have to do some priorities regarding how we use this resource best. The development of green technology is so fast today that it is impossible to know what will be the solutions in the long term. However, we are per today at the opposite end of the scale. We're wasting resources that could have been used, we need predictability for investment and innovation, and we need a market. The priority number one today must be to raise the volume of sustainable biofuels and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I will end by saying that non-sustainable fuel is a udder. Here we meet challenges with EU legislation, and I assume that in its dialogue with the EU, the government is working further with opportunities to demand that all biofuels be sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e587	We had a very comprehensive and really quite promising debate on the use of biofuels in the state budget last autumn. Both the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party all had their own comments and their own ambitions linked to the alternative budget. That was very good. Unfortunately, we were unable to write together for a common objective and a common level of ambition in relation to the state budget, but we chose to have our own comments. It's a bit of a shame, but I think we have to spend the time ahead to work more on a common position of the broad majority who are in the Biggest on biofuel. And then we wait for the regulation on biofuels that is promised by the government parties, the Left and Christian People's Party. I think that is also a little behind the discussion of Document 8 here today – that we now do not want to focus on the obstacles or problems, but that instead we have a greater need to think about long-term and framework conditions and to create stability for those who want to invest in biofuels in Norway in the years to come. For some sectors, marine biofuels could be a transition fuel. For passenger car traffic, that is probably the case, but for heavy transport and for air traffic, I think biofuels will play a long-term role in a completely different way from that of, for example. passenger car traffic. Therefore, it is not appropriate for the Centre Party to support the proposals that have been promoted here today. We believe that the public debate should not be monotonous with scepticism and resistance. It is not the case that the actors who are now sitting and waiting and who are afraid of what framework conditions exist should be met with a political debate marked by scepticism and resistance, so that the nuance disappears. It's just going to lead to more uncertainty. It's just going to help us get less investment in the use of biofuels. Because there is no doubt, as the rapporteur also pointed out, that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has said that biofuels are one of the things that have to be done in order to achieve climate goals. Last summer, the Environment Directorate and NIBIO launched a joint investigation, showing quite clearly that the role of forests in climate change is more important than the protection of forests. They simply made an assessment and found that the role of the forest is more important for the climate than the protection of forests. It is important to stress from the centre that the forest is a fantastic resource even in the climate context. It may be important in climate contexts in several different contexts, both as building material and as biofuel. Norway is a country that today has great potential for increased cropping and production, and we do not exploit it very close to the forest resource in the way we could have done. For the Central Party, it is therefore important that we now concentrate on a long-term commitment and stability for the actors, and that the ambitions of many of us were united in last autumn can be reflected in a more overall ambition on the part of the Storting. This document 8 does not go in that direction, which is why the Centre Party will not support the proposals that have been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e598	We have spent a lot of time on biofuels in this ageing period, after a break in the introduction of the user tax on biofuels in 2008. Now, fortunately, it's a much wider majority of the bet that we have. We've done a lot. We removed the user fee as the first measure. This committee has decided that we should have fossil-free public transport by 2025. In the budgets, we have provided additional support to the large cities for the transition to biogas, such as: Trondheim, who has moved from natural gas to biogas in its public transport. We have also increased the turnover charge in the period, from 3.5 pst. when we started, to 7 pst. this year. In the budget for this year, we have also adopted a speeding-up plan, with a turnover requirement of up to 20 pst. by 2020, which is a very ambitious objective, and also goes beyond what we agreed in the Energy Communication Committee, where it was put at 11 pst. So there's no doubt that this will be put into use a lot of new biofuels. It'll be a challenge how to get this done, but there's no doubt that it can be done. Finland currently has a share above 20 pst. and Sweden is probably about 15 pst. This change also offers a great opportunity for Norwegian business. We see today that, in the forest industry, there are many initiatives to start producing biofuels, a production that will largely be an opportunity to exploit a resource that is not currently being used in the same way, that residues can be used for biofuels, while it is still important that the stock itself be used as construction material. At the same time, we look after replacing other fossil materials with green carbon from the forest in the years to come. There's no doubt that we're going to have to give priority to where we're going to use biofuels in the future. As a transitional regime, biofuels are important for passenger transport, but as volume increases, it is even more important to accelerate the change to zero-emission solutions in passenger car transport. It is clear that the objective Stortinget has stated that we should only sell a zero-emission vehicle from 2025 is even more important when it comes to having such a high turnover requirement in biofuels. In the future, biofuels will need to focus more on heavy transport, shipping and air transport. There we have taken the first steps to get biofuels – Gardermoen is probably still the only airport offering biofuels for aviation – but this needs to be reinforced in the years to come. Then to the suggestions. The left will not be in favour of any of them, but I would like to say that the first proposal, that all biofuels should be subject to the EU sustainability criteria, of course we agree. It has also been adopted by the Stortinge in the past. What makes us unable to go in for this is the requirement that it should be done by 1 July 2017. We believe that it is difficult to achieve, because there are complications in terms of legislation and the EU that make it difficult, but that is something that needs to be worked on further in order to get in place. And then it's important, when we're now betting on Norwegian forestry and creating a bigger market of biofuels, to work even more actively to preserve biodiversity and values in the Norwegian forest. It is even more important to follow up the 10 pst. forest protection objective that we have set ourselves, and that the committee is behind – that we ensure that we follow up the protection of ants, that we follow up all the quality objectives that lie within the forest. Biofuels are absolutely necessary to achieve the climate goals of reducing our emissions by 40 pst. by 2030. We have to make sure that there are high-quality biofuels and that at the same time we are able to deliver the natural values in the Norwegian forest and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e615	Let me start with criticism and end with a constructive call and invitation to a political workshop to the Minister for the Environment. Let me start by saying it like this: the government has drawn its feet in the policy on biofuels. Time and again, we have seen how the majority of the population, with the Left and the Christian People's Party, have forced a biofuel effort – with a rematch in the revised national budget of the government parties. We had a bet that was adopted in connection with the Energy Communication and got a rematch in the last state budget from the Environment Minister. Now we have set an ambitious target for 2020 for further escalation in the future, which I hope it is possible to end the series in Stortinget, so that at least we agree on the course and can ensure that the biofuels to be used are as sustainable as possible, and that we will get the most nutritional development in Norway from that very point of view. Several previous speakers have been about it. We have also seen a change of course that has made this possible through the fact that the working party from being brake blocks to introduce biofuels in the previous ageing period is now the most ambitious on targets up to 2030 about how much is to be taken through biofuel reduction. I believe that this is also where there is a broad majority in Stortinget to be able to do this. Okay, that was most of the salty criticism. So I think there's every reason to be skeptical and critical of the biofuels that are being used, but it's best to say that we give a clear signal to food operators, to the gas station industry, to all those who are going to sell, that we and you can be sure that we are going to have a high level and an escalation of this in the time to come, and now you have to deliver on the quality. That's what I think we're trying to do now from Stortinget's side. In particular, the only place we discuss theoretical values that ‘indirect land use change’ and in a way the possible climate effects of this is related to biofuels. We never do it on meat, we never do it on coffee, we never do it on chocolate. We'll never do it on anything other than biofuels. And I mean this very seriously: we should try to look at everything that could distort agricultural production, and cut everyone over one comb. What's the overall goal is to get rid of fossil energy. I believe that the premises for a commitment to biofuels from the Left, SV and the Greens should be an inspiration to the Council of State. I would ask him to look at it against the further escalation to be included in the revised national budget, for there are premises: Firstly, all fossil energy has to be phased out as quickly as possible. Secondly, biofuels shall be a transitional fuel in the transport industry while alternative technologies are phased in. And it's just to say the following to those who are critical to biofuels in the transport industry: you have to fold up your sleeves and use all the forces to ensure that we achieve the goals we have set for the fastest possible phase-in of zero-emission technology. There is also no plan from the government, only airy goals for 2025. It won't last. The third premise is that since bio-resources are limited resources, they shall, as a general rule, be given priority over long-term carbon capture, such as building materials, and replacement for fossil energy use, where there is no alternative technology, and secondary, where bioenergy provides the largest amount of carbon emissions per amount of bioenergy. – I believe this is a good premise, which I hope there will be more in the next round. So to the specific point where it's not a majority, but where it should be a majority. The government says, and the government's representatives have said earlier in the debate, that we are unable to provide sustainability criteria for all the biofuels sold in Norway – only what is part of the sales order, because – and listen to the wording used by the Council of State: it may be contrary to EU law. It may be in conflict! And here comes the constructive invitation: this should not be the case with a former European Minister of Government. He should say, well, what is the EU really saying here? And what the EU says in its renewable directive point 65 is the following: ‘Biofuel production should be sustainable.’ – ‘should be sustainable’. – This is the starting point for the EU. «Biofuels used for compliance with the targets laid down in this Directive, and above that benefit from national support schemes, should therefore be required to fully file sustainability criteria.» Okay, what kind of openings are there? There are two different: one is that if they make use of national support forms, such as sales directives and other things, it shall be possible to impose requirements on them, then sustainability requirements shall be required, and the other is if they are in line with the objective of reaching the renewable directive. Why in the world shouldn't we make sure that one of the two things is possible to achieve?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e650	And then the president, even if it's time, assumes that the representative will put forward a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e655	President - that's a very good idea!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e661	Then the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås brought up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e666	The Green Party is in favour of a commitment to biofuels in the transport industry, and we are in favour of a Norwegian industrial development based on Norwegian resources to produce biofuels. That's why we think it's so important that this bet is based on good knowledge and good quality criteria, so that we don't even feel that an important bet is parked because you haven't done homework when you find that there are problems that you hadn't prepared yourself, business or opinion on. That is the basis for our proposal. The starting point is that, at the overall level, large-scale production of biomass for energy purposes encounters significant problems — potentially — both in terms of food production, in terms of area, and in terms of last resort — of diversity of species. Land changes in agriculture are very important factors for the development of biodiversity and – ethically speaking – most important in food production. On that basis, therefore, the Green, Left and SV Environment Party has adhered to the main principles just read by the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, for Norwegian biofuels, which should have been fully endorsed by the entire Stortinget. I think it is surprising that we do not get it, that is, fossil energy should be phased out as quickly as possible. That's the whole prerequisite for the biofuels bet. Biofuels shall be a transitional fuel in the transport industry, of course, because full zero-emission energy is an even better solution and the long-term objective that everyone agrees on. Because bio-resources are limited resources, they need to be prioritised, and long-term carbon capture is more important for the use of those resources than short-term use for transport. It is very important for environmental policy, such as the credibility of environmental policy, to avoid becoming a new example of climate policy in the transport sector that does not function properly. It is very important to remember what will be the time evolution of Norwegian biofuels use and Norwegian biofuels deployment. The largest biofuel production effort we know so far, Norwegian Forest and Statekraft, aims to make its investment decision for a full scale installation in 2020. In that case, they will not produce on far near what is the estimated demand for Norwegian biofuels at that time, i.e. that very much of the Norwegian biofuel bet will be based on imported biofuels and, to a large extent, on first-generation biofuels. It is a development that we should be very aware of, when we hear at the same time from the Ministry of Climate and Environment that 85 pst. of the biofuels in Norway in 2013 were based on rapeseeds, and the EU operates with figures – referred to by the Directorate for Climate Change – that the indirect land use changes in rapeseed production lead to very high greenhouse gas emissions. I agree with the representative Eidsvoll Holmås that the calculation models for indirect use of land are at best challenging, but we cannot ignore them as long as they are on the table, and as long as they are part of the total accounts, as it is operated with international and vis-à-vis opinion and the market, in the use of biofuels. We should keep a high level of attention around that. The biofuels policy underpinned by the Green Party, which wants to promote through this proposal, is good for the environment and also good for the long-term biofuel effort in Norwegian business, because it will provide the predictability and long-term market security that this industry needs in Norway, in order not to become a flop that scares Norwegian business even further away from environmental efforts. In this context, I would like to refer to the proposals made by the Green Party in the debate on the forest notification, all of which are proposals that are based on a commitment to industrial development based on Norwegian forest resources for biofuel production, with the framework conditions needed to ensure that such production will be sustainable in the long term, and not face unforeseen problems resulting from an excessive increase that do not want to waste time on home play. I refer to the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e679	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e684	Climate challenges are a major issue of our time. The climate target we have set for 2030 is very ambitious, and the transport sector is an important part of the solution, perhaps the sector that needs to take the biggest cut in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Biofuels may contribute to the reduction of transport emissions provided they are sustainably produced. Most of the biofuels traded in Norway today are conventional biofuels produced from food crops. It has an uncertain impact on global emissions and global biodiversity, although it naturally reduces emissions in Norway from the transport sector. Because of the global dimensions, it is very important that we work to ensure the production of sustainable biofuels. Here we see important initiatives on the road in Norway. The type of initiative has been made possible through clear signals that sustainable biofuels are the way to go, and it is important to predictability in policy that these projects, which are not fully mature, will actually be. Supply and demand calculations for bioenergy have been carried out in Norway. The Environment Directorate estimated in 2015 that there is a long-term Norwegian potential in primary energy from forest raw material, agricultural waste, other waste and used vegetable oil and fat residues of around 60 TWh. About half of this is used today for, for example: sawmills, cardboard and paper production and power. Therefore, there could be an unused potential of 30 TWh in 2030. More use of forest waste, such as branches and peaks, known as GROT, reduces CO2 recovery than if the primary raw material were used and has negligible negative effects on natural diversity. We increased the appropriations for forest fertilisation in the 2017 budget, which could lead to increased production and carbon uptake in the forest. In the Forestry Communication, the government has said that increased use of forest resources and products from the forest could play an important role in a low-carbon society. Furthermore, increased forestry activity shall be combined with the strengthening of environmental considerations in forestry. It shall be followed up by examining measures to increase the conservation of key biotopes and the monitoring of old forests in order to ensure their good management. Norway is covered by the general European internal market legislation by the EEA Agreement. It also applies to biofuels. Therefore, Norway is not allowed to make use of its own classification rules for biofuels. I believe that the best way we can achieve the use of sustainable biofuels today is by being a driver of stricter sustainability criteria in European legislation in this area. The ILUC Directive seeks to ensure better climate integrity of the European biofuel legislation by taking greater account of indirect land-use changes from biofuel production. On behalf of the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Directorate-General for the Environment, Agriculture and the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomics prepares the Vern report or the use of forests as climate action. In the report, the agencies consider that it is difficult to find a basis for saying that the protection of forests in Norway is better than sustainable forestry, as a response to climate change in a long-term perspective. However, forest protection is important for many other reasons, including: for the conservation of biodiversity, outdoor life, cultural landscapes and other environmental aspects. In order to ensure the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector, a transition to vehicles with zero and low emission technologies is necessary. Biofuels in road transport are most likely to be a transitional technology, which we need for a period, especially for heavy transport. For other segments of the transport sector it may be different as electrification can be demanding, e.g. in long-distance shipping and aviation, although technological developments are also interesting there. Let me conclude by saying that the main priority of the government in terms of biofuels is to ensure sustainability and real climate impact. As of 1 January of this year, we have therefore introduced a sub-requirement for advanced biofuels within the turnover requirement for biofuels in road traffic. Furthermore, by means of the budgetary agreement, we have given the industry predictability of putting in place a phasing-in plan for the turnover requirement up to 2020. In this way, we are facilitating increased Norwegian production of sustainable biofuels and for green Norwegian competitiveness. We will continue to follow the market for advanced biofuels closely and propose raising the marketing requirement for this type of biofuels, if production is sustainable and market access and costs warrant it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e705	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e710	My question is in the extension of what the Council of State said at the very end of its article, about the change in the classification of sustainable fuels that was made on 1 January of this year. The fact that PFAD is no longer classified as a sustainable fuel has led to some challenges for the situation of petrol/energy stations in order to get sustainable fuel into the Norwegian market. The majority of the biofuels are imported from Finland. They import a part again, and the products may be from the palm oil industry. It is difficult to track where the biofuels used in Norwegian cars on Norwegian roads are actually from. How will the Council of States ensure that sustainability criteria are followed up by the pace of the stepping up of the transposition requirement set up by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e717	In the calculations we have made in connection with the escalation plan, both the one we had at the hearing last year, and in the work on the budgetary conciliation, we have had good dialogue with the industry and have identified what they think will be a realistic approach to sustainable biofuels in the years to come. We believe that we are in the coming years, and we believe that the clear signals we give through increased ambitions will stimulate increased production both in Norway and elsewhere. We are also in good dialogue with our Nordic neighbours on these issues to see if we can contribute to stronger Nordic signals to develop the Nordic market, precisely in order to ensure access to sustainable biofuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e722	There was no response to the invitation I had to comment on EU legislation. I think it's very stony with a government council that has so much confidence that he thinks the easiest thing he can do is change the EU legislation. I would like to say that first of all, changing the regulatory framework he himself has control of, perhaps should be an easier job to do. But he knows himself best. I therefore have a very specific question. It is clear that the EU objective is to subject all biofuels used to sustainability criteria. It's like the main wording and the main purpose. However, the Council of State states that EU legislation may be a brake on its use in what is not covered by the ban on placing on the market. Then I ask: What has the Council of State done to the European Union, to ESA, to the Commission, in order to understand that sustainability criteria are to be applied to all Norwegian biofuels?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e729	Let me first say that this government, together with the cooperation parties, has provided a predictable framework for stepping up the production and use of sustainable biofuels in Norway. The government of which Eidsvoll Holmås was part, was not exactly a model of predictability in that way. We believe that requiring all biofuels traded in Norway to comply with the EU sustainability criteria may, yes, I would say, be contrary to the total harmonisation clause contained in the Fuel Quality Directive, which specifically states that there is no possibility of imposing stricter fuel requirements than the one set out in the Directive. That is why we believe that the best thing we can do is to contribute to stricter rules on the European market. It's a harder job than the one we do at home. We do a lot at home, but we also have to work at European level.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e736	The response from Vidar Helgesen is quite alarming, because despite the fact that the Storting has decided that all biofuels should be involved, it is obvious that the Council of State has not made any enquiries with the EU to ask either the Commission or ESA, as it is quite natural to do, and say: I see it here in paragraph 65 that all biofuels should be sustainable, but we believe that this may be contrary to the Total Harmonisation Directive. Can we understand that we base this sustainability criterion on all biofuels sold in Norway? What, if any, do we have to do in national legislation to ensure that we achieve the possibility of ensuring that the sustainability criterion applies to all legislation? I can see that the former European Minister is very clear: we have not done anything to Europe to get an understanding of what the Great Britain has decided, namely that the sustainability criterion must be met for all biofuels used in Norway. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e743	We have a lot of contact with the EU on biofuels and have, among other things, last year had several rounds around the transport sector and climate objectives, where biofuels have been central. We know what a total harmonisation clause means in the EU. This means that as long as it is EEA-relevant, we have very little leeway to go beyond what is EU legislation. Therefore, we have not seen that there is any basis for further contact with ESA on this issue. But we are a champion for the sustainability criteria to become more stringent. This has been addressed to the EU both directly in the meeting with the climate commissioner and in the context of the consultation on the revised renewable directive. In addition, we have also put ourselves on a strict line with regard to the classification of raw materials for the production of biofuels, through the classification of PFAD in the product.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e749	I'm one of them who when I drive a car, runs on biofuels, 100 pst. In this connection, I have experienced quite a lot of baluba around the question of what it is that I am actually rather down to the thought. The Green Party's proposals today on knowledge acquisition have been broadly rejected by both government parties and other parties on two grounds. One, we know enough. The second: Do not pour malturt into the beggar. At the same time, we know in practice that a lot of the biofuels we're going to run on in the future by 2025 will be imported, and we've now heard from the Council that he can't guarantee in any way that what we're importing will be sustainable. The prospects for the Norwegian sustainable contribution will then be interesting. Given that we know enough, what does the Minister for the Environment know about how much Norwegian produced sustainable biofuels we will actually get available in the period up to 2025?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e756	I haven't said that we know enough, and I don't see in the committee's attitude that the majority says you know enough. But we know enough to know that biofuels will play a role, and that it is sustainable biofuels that we need to prioritise. It's a very clear signal to the actors who want to bet on this. It is not least an important signal to those actors who, due to a lot of back and forth in this policy through the former government, have failed to bet and have been waiting for clear political signals. There must be no doubt among the actors that biofuels have a role to play, but that sustainable biofuels are what we really need, and that we need an increase. There are therefore good and interesting initiatives in Norway. But how much it will be from Norwegian sources, we cannot answer precisely today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e761	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e768	Can I not just start by saying that I think it is profoundly problematic that we have a Council of States that has not lifted a finger to check whether what the Stortinget has adopted is possible to fulfil in a dialogue with the EU, but only refers to general dialogues with the EU – instead of following up the very concrete decision that sustainability criteria will apply to all biofuels traded in Norway? There are two possibilities for doing so, either by being covered by financial support schemes, such as: tax exemptions, or by counting against the objective of the directive we are talking about, namely the renewable directive. I cannot understand anything other than the fact that it must be possible to say that biofuels, in addition to what is covered by the marketing directive, we as a nation must be interested in being counted against the renewable directive. I believe that it must be possible legally, within the legislation we have, to ensure that sustainability criteria count against it. I do not understand that the Council of State, which is so concerned about highlighting the potentially troubling aspects of the use of biofuels, is not concerned that the sustainability criteria that we have – which are not good enough, in my opinion, but which are actually there – should be met and applied to all biofuels sold in Norway. I expect the Council of State to follow up the already taken decision to check with the EU what it needs to do to ensure that sustainability criteria can cover all biofuels. It is, after all, the main purpose of the paragraph that says something about sustainability criteria at all. Let's add it. I have to go into the policy of the previous government and this government. He says that this government has created a predictable escalation plan. With all due respect – this government has not done so. What this government has done is that every time the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have had some success in government budgets, there has been a rematch in the next government budgets. The majority – the committee that is now discussing this – decided that we should have escalating to 11 pst. By 2020, and so the Council of State itself will come back to the Storting with a lower ambition than a unanimous enlargement had foreseen. So he challenges the whole Big thing and calls himself predictable. Then the Council of State should look itself in the mirror. I have five other suggestions for what the Council of State could do to get 'driving' on national bio investment. Firstly, if he is busy with biogas, he could demand the collection and separation of all wet organic waste. It's under the law of the Council of States. There would be more biogas in the Norwegian market. He could demand the use of energy and the shedding of the carbon in all that is available from sewage. It would have led to more biogas. He could, as I said, demand that all fuel should be sustainable. He could demand that all public tenders should have stricter sustainability criteria. The Council of State and the government have not done that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e781	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e797	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e806	We are now going to discuss the research ethics law, or, as it says, the law on the organisation of research ethical work, and I would like to start by pointing out that there has been a slight error in the text of the vote, in the committee's recommendation for a decision. On page 5 it is stated under § 14: «In Act 1 April 2005 No. 1 on universities and higher education’ — the correct one is: in Law 1 April 2005 no. 15th The correctness shall be correct. So you can ask yourself, how can the Academy, which aims to seek truth, probing and verification, avoid taking accusations of cheating seriously? This question was asked by journalist Bosse Lindquist, the man who revealed the Italian stem cell researcher Paolo Macchiarini in juxtaposition and unethical behaviour at the Swedish prestige institution Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm. The journalist rolled up a formidable scandal of the rarest when he put searchlights on what turned out to be the age of research disease in an international format. One year ago, Karolinska's management had to go off after they for a long time denied a number of warnings and other strong indications of gross and harmful research disease by the charismatic surgeon. This is a gruesome example of how wrong it can be, but that's not the only example. There are several, small and big things. Therefore, it is important that we do what we can to set a good framework for each individual researcher and institution to take responsibility for honesty and high ethical standards. In the proposition we are discussing today, we are therefore strengthening the research ethical work in Norwegian research by legislating this responsibility. We do not legislate the ethics itself, but we legislate the very organisation of the research ethical work. I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation in this matter; it is an advantage that we are united on the broad lines of such a case. The entire Committee stresses the importance of research and higher education to develop a well-functioning society and to contribute to meeting the major societal challenges. It demands that those carrying out the research make high demands on themselves and others, and demands that institutions have good practices and systems to ensure that the research carried out is ethically sound. This means that both researchers and institutions have a responsibility to engage in and comply with recognised research ethical standards and to contribute to the implementation of research. The national research ethics committees, together with their professional committees and committees, are the main national actors in the field of research ethics. In order to promote good research practices, both prevention and the treatment of dishonesty are important. The Committee as a whole assumes that academic freedom is respected and that scientific criteria underpin all research. The trust in the research environment depends on their conscious relationship with what is good research ethics in different disciplines, and the entire committee believes that the legislative proposal promoted by the government strengthens research ethics in Norwegian research. We welcome the fact that the government is proposing to continue the system of professionally independent ethics committees and a national review committee. I initially set an example – the Macchiarini scandal at Karolinska – of how bad things can happen when neither researcher nor institution is conscious of their responsibility and makes strict demands on themselves and their own organisation. It reminds us that we must be in the forefront and facilitate that the research environments, which are the ones that primarily have to take responsibility for what is good research ethics, and how this should be, are precisely organizing this work themselves in a good way. Research ethics and honesty in research are much more than what is regulated by a law, and research ethics is primarily the responsibility of the research community. We can never be sure that some scientists, as well as other actors in society, are trying to cheat and dishonesty, unfortunately. But with this law, we strengthen our efforts to ensure high ethical standards in Norwegian research. We make it harder for individual researchers and institutions to get away with cheating and fantasy. And finally, this law helps us to feel more confident that we can actually trust that the research results reflect reality. The law that we are to adopt today builds on and replaces what was enshrined in the 2006 Law on Ethics and Honesty in Research. We are strengthening the work on research ethics. We continue the system of professionally independent ethics committees and the national sample for the examination of honesty in research. The new thing is that we legislate both the individual researcher's responsibility and the individual's institution's own responsibility, and overall, this work goes into a larger context in order to enhance the quality of Norwegian higher education and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e827	Thank you to the President-in-Office, who has struck the Committee through an important matter in a reassuring and solid way. A high ethical standard requires a good culture. It is necessary to ensure trust. In our time, trust may seem to be a scarce asset. I choose to spend some time on the back porch for this, because we're living in a time when what we thought was unbreakable facts, it's no longer. ‘Fake news’ and ‘alternative facts’ are terms that have set the agenda and are on everyone’s lips. Before, it was about doing for a politician to avoid getting involved in mistakes. After the United States got a new president, it's possible to completely ignore this, as he chooses to do. Of course, it has its price. 55 pst. believes President Trump is not honest, according to a recent poll conducted by Quinnipiac University. But the media also have major problems. Trust in the media is low in the United States, so when President Trump is confronted with the fact that previous statements are wrong, he accuses the media of having a political agenda, that they are against him, that they have their own agenda. Surprisingly, many people believe this. Nevertheless, 52 pst. media tell facts about important things. The corresponding numbers for Trump are much lower – 37 pst. Discussions about what are facts, also reaches the research world. The most obvious example is the debate on climate change – are they man-made or not? A massive majority of the world's scientists in natural science are clear that human activity affects the climate of the globe to make it warmer. Nevertheless, there are still some who are battalioning with the climate scientists. So why trust these scientists is not all to the seventh and last only claims, including from these environments? No, no, no. Scientists are scientists and scientists who have come up with their claims through systematic, methodological and critical research, study or research. If something is to be called science, there is a requirement for adequate evidence or justification of the claims being made, and then this will be a theme for other researchers who will try to prove or disprove this. This activity, carried out at an international level, provides quality assurance which makes research findings factual, contrary to a claim. But, for it's a but here: this means that researchers don't cheat, that they have a good ethical standard, and that they work in research environments that ensure, maintain and value a high ethical standard on the activity they do. These attitudes must be put in place early in a research career and must form a central part of the culture of each research environment. Juks are unfortunately also present in the world of research, and the temptation can be great in environments where power, money and a lot of prestige accompany groundbreaking research. It is therefore important to have a good law, which is clear from the responsibility of the researchers and research institutions. In this setting, the centre party and SV go a little far in claiming that performance indicators – as they are called – that we have in the funding system can lead to more research disease. The system we have today is such that the institution can get more money by graduating more students or publishing more articles in journals. However, the basic appropriations are so large that the danger of this should not be exaggerated, in the view of the Workers' Party. The Labour Party agrees that it is very unfortunate that many researchers are in temporary positions. Safe and secure working conditions help to ensure independent research, so we expect the government to work hard on this every day. However, the fact that temporary posts themselves should lead to lower ethical standards among researchers is not necessarily certain. At the same time, there could probably be a danger that more people were tempted to commit ethical violations if most of the funding was linked to results, and most of them were temporary employees. However, this is not the case in Norway. We donate a lot of money to research, and we have great expectations for researchers. We take it as a matter of course that everyone strives on a high ethical standard, and these are virtues that are probably as important as all the other qualities you have to have in order to be a good scientist or a scientist. In the time we live in now, researchers will just have to take an even greater responsibility to participate in the public debate on what is facts, and what kind of knowledge will be at the root of the political change of words. A high level of credibility will then be crucial, based on the ethical awareness of individuals and in all research environments. Finally, I would like to make an explanation of vote. I would like to state that the Labour Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox We shall vote against proposal No. 2, because of the wording relating to the justification, and against proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e855	It is a particularly important legislative proposal that is now to be dealt with. The government wants to strengthen research ethics in Norwegian research by legislating the responsibilities of researchers and research institutions. The care of researchers is proposed by law. Each researcher shall act with care to ensure that all research takes place in accordance with recognised research ethical standards. The individual researcher has to familiarize himself with these norms. Furthermore, an important legislative framework is proposed for the ethical responsibility of research institutions. In dealing with dishonesty, the Ministry proposes an obligation for the research institutions to deal with all cases of possible breaches of recognised research ethics standards. These are important and strong signals, to which the Progress Party subscribes. In Norway, it is our general impression that research and researchers have great confidence in both the Stortinget, the media and the rest of the population. Research plays an important role in its societal implications, such as: in the case of the provision of premises for political decisions. Research depends on the trust of society. The authority and status of the researchers depends on our considering them independent. In this context, governance or attempts at government, employer or contracting entity governance vis-à-vis researchers, in the form of pressure and manipulation, are very serious. This is precisely why clear ethical rules are important for both researchers and research institutions. The Progress Party will also highlight the importance of the institution's taking unfair practices seriously. This means a great deal both for the confidence of researchers on the outside and not least for the confidence and cooperation climate within the research communities. We must never forget the importance of ‘honoring the one to be honored’, and in research, I think this is of great importance. We in the Progress Party are pleased that an overall committee believes that the legislative proposal promoted by the government reinforces the research ethic of Norwegian research, and welcomes the Government's desire to continue the system of professionally independent ethics committees and a national investigation committee. It is important to bear in mind that many of the researchers' general ethical obligations concern standards that regulate the relationship with other researchers and students and the research's quest for truth and freedom. The scientists have to trust each other. In addition, the researcher has ethical obligations towards those involved in the research and other persons and groups directly affected by the research. These are the demands of society on researchers. However, we in the Progress Party will also point out that researchers have some very timely demands on society. In particular, we will stress that for many years the large proportion of temporary staff in the university and higher education sectors has been mentioned, and that this has continued for many years. The entire committee has noticed that the Research Association is clear that academic freedom and the inadequacy of research can be affected when the researchers’ job situation is insecure. We in the Progress Party share the concern for the high proportion of temporary employment at universities and colleges. We believe that in the current situation in Norway, with an increasing need for change, innovation and future value creation, it is particularly important to give researchers and academics both freedom and security to research and work independently. Building good and efficient research teams where members are team players with confidence in each other, assuming the Progress Party will be simpler with greater security and steady employment. The Progress Party will therefore stress that there is a target of reduced temporaryity. We are therefore meeting the forthcoming legislative proposal from the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation on the revised Civil Service Act, which is presented during the spring of 2017, where temporaryity in the state is a central theme of the new law for state employees. The Progress Party, together with a majority in the Committee, believes that job security – in the sense of permanent jobs – will be an important tool for getting more and better research, and expects the government to intensify its efforts to reduce the proportion of temporary jobs for scientific staff in the university and higher education sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e876	For the Left, academic freedom is fundamental. He is the foundation for the development of new knowledge and innovative innovations. He is the foundation for the free dissemination of knowledge, and he is the foundation of a free society. For the Left, academic freedom is actually so important that he remains as the only thing where the Left changed Norway liberally over eight red-green years. This happened when in February 2010, the Stortinget joined our proposal to clarify the academic freedom of researchers who are not covered by university and university spheres. The point here is that academic freedom and science-ethical consciousness are closely linked. As the committee writes in the setting: «Trust in the research environment depends on a conscious relationship between the different research environments and good research ethics within different disciplines.» And trust in free research is an assurance that she will continue to be free. The laws that we debate and are likely to adopt today will, in the Left's view, help to strengthen research-ethical work and thus free research. We are pleased that a law-enforcement of researchers' responsibility for research in line with acknowledged research ethical standards, and with the institutional measures taken to establish and ensure the follow-up of the responsibility of researchers and research institutions. One might have wanted a wide-ranging debate on the content of research-ethical work in different disciplines, in context. There are many research-esthetic issues that are politically relevant and that are often raised into this room in different contexts. Part of biotechnology research is an example of this. And... the relationship between life and technology, which is challenged and changed in synthetic biology; Animal welfare and how the intrinsic value of animals is preserved privacy, ‘big data’ and the management of vulnerable information, which is easier to access and abuse than ever. publication of results and public access to research for which eelmenta has paid But all of this is regulated in different laws on each of its fields. The scientific ethics of itself is and shall be the responsibility of the scientific community to define, within the framework provided by these laws. The left is therefore pleased that a non-legislative measure of good research ethics is not included. It's also about academic freedom. With all of this in mind, it is a little surprising to note that there are temporary options that have been the major issue in the committee – not least because two years ago the Stortinget dealt with another law where this might have been more relevant. There, at the initiative of the Left, we asked the government to take action to reduce the number of temporary posts in the university and higher education sectors, in the work of the revised Services Act and the University and Higher Education Act. There are suggestions sent on the phone and returned, and the Stortinget is waiting for a bill from the government. Today, about four years have passed since the then Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen stood on this pulpit and rejected changes in the law, so that temporary additions could last a maximum of two years before a right to permanent addition was granted. That responsibility had to be borne by the institutions themselves, she meant. The SV and the Central Party proposals in the setting may indicate that the main responsibility for this is still the institutions – according to the two parties. I think it's best if we let research ethics law be research ethics law, and that we use the state's tools more specifically to get more into permanent work – it requires regulatory changes. The changes have been ordered, the Left eagerly awaits the proposals to the Stortinget – and they should definitely come during this session.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e918	SV supports the proposal for a new law to take care of and strengthen the work on good research ethics, and I do not know anything but to join the good reasons that have come from different parties for it. It is important that the research institutions have high-level prevention on the agenda and that they work specifically to ensure a high-level culture of research ethics. In the same way, it is also a political responsibility for corruption and government that we provide a framework for independent and unhindered research, and where academic freedom is high and respected. It is, I think, natural to involve a few situations that this government has created itself, which give reason to stress the importance of the fact that politicians also take such a discussion. We don't have to go to the United States to see those powers that have had, we can say, unfortunate dealing with research and facts. Minister for Fisheries Per Sandberg has, for example: received a lot of criticism after he went out against the Marine Research Institute and demanded that it be a business-friendly institute to share the ambitions of the government for the farming industry. It also gave the Secretariat and the Head of the National Research Ethics Committee to move out of a post in the Official Journal of Bergen and to clarify that the choice of methods, data collection and interpretation of results must be the domain of the researchers. It is a little special that it should be necessary in the Norwegian public. It is also such that what kind of framework conditions we as elected representatives provide for the academic institutions can help to determine how large or small the room for cheating and unethical behavior becomes. We believe, without drawing it too far, for which we were accused by the Workers' Party's speakers, that the discussion on temporary additions and funding systems is relevant to this debate. Therefore, we believe that the reduction in the use of temporary additions and caution in performance-based indicators, as it is called, is an important part of this discussion – not because such things necessarily lead to cheating, but because fixed additions and good basic funding will be part of a bollard against what we do not want here. In addition, when funded mainly through temporary project funding, grant mission research creates uncertainty related to future funding and makes research positions mainly temporary. We have taken note of the very clear advice from the Swedish Research Association that the work to overcome the large amount of temporary jobs needs to be intensified, and the warnings that more competition in combination with temporaryity creates a system that does not adequately address the concerns of research ethics. There is a clear and important input into this debate. We also believe that it is important to stress the importance of strengthening the professional autonomy of universities, colleges and research institutes, as well as reducing the use of temporary additions and caution in performance-based funding, important actions. We, together with the Center Party, have tabled three proposals in the vote. It is about clarifying the importance of building and maintaining a strong research ethical culture. It is about asking the government to intensify its efforts to reduce the proportion of temporary posts for scientific staff, and then it is about what also came as a clear input into the consultation round, about the need to clarify the responsibility of the Ministry of Knowledge to ensure good conditions for research ethics practices. On behalf of the SV and the Central Party, I would like to raise the three proposals that have been referred to in the vote, and in addition to them, SV will vote in favour of the proposals for legislative amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e935	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e940	Today, the Storting deals with new law on the organisation of research ethical work. The law has been proposed to replace the current law on the treatment of ethics and honesty in research in 2006. At the time, it was important to put in place a system for dealing with dishonesty at national level, as well as to legislate the existing ethics committee system and the committee's professional independence. Now there is a need to look at the local level, i.e. the responsibilities of each researcher and research institution. The main thrust of the proposal is to legislate the responsibility of each researcher and research institution for good research ethics. Respect for the principle of research independence and academic freedom is essential to maintain confidence in the results of research. With academic freedom it also follows a responsibility. The responsibility for research ethics is part of this. Research ethics are about much more and more than legal regulation. The research ethic is primarily the responsibility of the research community. The Ministry therefore does not propose the legalisation of what is good research ethics, but continues and expands the legalisation of the organisation of research ethical work, hence the new name of the law. Furthermore, it has been important for us to ensure the legal certainty of each individual researcher. An accusation of serious research fraud may have major consequences for the researcher in question. That is why we are now setting up a system with the right to re-test at national level on the most serious issues, i.e.: when a researcher has received an opinion on scientific dishonesty against him. The proposal for a new law is the result of a long and open process. The main practice of legislating the responsibilities of researchers and research institutions was strongly supported in the consultation round. It also promises good for the follow-up, because it's the one that's important. It is also reassuring to know that this proposal does not come now because we have major research ethical challenges, but because we have to be in the forefront – because it is an eternal issue. We've seen serious things in our neighboring countries in the last few years. I believe that this new law, with the responsibility of research itself, could help to avoid such issues in Norway. I can also mention that in these days the Danish Parliament is discussing a bill on research ethics, the aim of which is the same: to strengthen the credibility of Danish research, among others. by taking responsibility for the research institutions. In my opinion, this proposal is an important part of our overall high-quality investment in Norwegian research. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e957	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e973	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e982	The reason for today's debate is two representative proposals which are almost identical. The Committee has therefore chosen to deal with them together. As rapporteurs, I would like to begin by thanking the proposer for putting the topic of learning density on the agenda, and I would also like to thank the Committee on Cooperation during the discussion. The teaching quality requires not only a professionally qualified teacher, but also a sufficient amount of time. Unfortunately, the government’s own party has been one-sidedly focused on the formal competence of the teacher and reluctantly was the pressure to prioritize higher learning density. The centre party, as Norwegian teachers, is absolutely positive for continuing education, it is not where the dividing lines in the school policy go. The initiative to continue training is also not something that started with this government. But when the teacher is asked what is most important to do the job, there is a clear desire for more time for each student in the school who is at the top. The center party thinks that all the elephants are fastening teachers who have time to follow them up when they need it. This is at the heart of the work on early interventions and custom training, all of which are busy. Although much has been done to strengthen the work of early action and initiatives, some remain able to meet the needs of each individual student at the earliest possible time. As the Committee refers to, it is still such that the education system reproduces social differences and that there are still many elephants who do not get the necessary early help in the training process. In contrast to political leaders, the number of pupils with special education is still increasing in the educational cycle. This is not the first time that the Storting debates on learning density and resource norms. I don't think that's the last time either. The positions are the same, and the arguments that are passed are the same. It is now high time we set up a common platform for strengthening learning skills over the years to come. Although it's great that the Christian People's Party has had a positive impact on several teachers' positions, and the government's party is insistent in the budget negotiations, elephants and teachers are quick to know that this will be a lasting and real increase in the future. It is positive that a joint committee is looking at an issue such as the real situation when it comes to the size of the class in the country. It is necessary to fine-tune any new model. The centre party records that the school owner's association KS is opposed to the introduction of a resource standard, and it is not difficult to understand KS' frustration that the income of the municipalities is disproportionate to the volume of statutory tasks and good purposes locally. But it is not, in fact, such that the municipalities are free to fill the classes after the class classification was lifted in 2003. First of all, the law says that the group size should be educationally defended, even if it is a fairly complex issue. The size has also determined that the old class classification shall be used as a minimum standard for the allocation of resources to the schools. The freedom granted to the schoolowner in 2003 to organise education more flexibly should be educationally anchored and should not be used to balance the school budget. The centre party is therefore pleased that a joint committee asks the government to do its best to solve this problem in the municipalities. The centre party is positive to a resource standard and believes that a teacher resource standard at school or municipality level is a less rigid resource target than the old class classification figure, by ensuring local resource access without limiting the organisation of the education itself. However, we also realise that the scheme should be discussed more closely before the Stortinget takes a final position on whether the norm should be at municipal or school level. The hearing showed that there was a need for that. This is not least the effect of the number of elephants per learner on which the resource standard will be based and the importance of having a resource standard for the entire basic training. The center party believes that it is absolutely necessary to have a norm for both 1 and 4. Steps and all the way up to the youth stage, so that there is no shift of resources between the main stages. Here I hope that we can gather together politically on a common goal and order for the government, because if you're going to take the budget deal seriously, there's a multiple that sees the value in increasing learning density. In practice, the opposite means that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left do not intend to follow up on the increase in teacher settings in the coming period, which is a signal that the voters and the teachers should pay attention to. Instead of going into a discussion about a resource standard that will mean 15 or 16 elephants per learner, the majority in the committee should gather about an order to make a resource standard and prepare the effect of different options. Before I finish, I want to put forward what the Central Party has to do with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1001	The representative Ivar Odnes then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1006	I would also like to thank the rapporteur, who has handled this matter in a good way, and also the rapporteurs, who have made sure that we are discussing the matter in Stortinget today. The working party wants more teachers in school, and we want to give teachers more time to be teachers. We will introduce a ‘reading, writing, calculating guarantee’ to ensure that all students receive the necessary follow-up so that they can quickly acquire the basic skills. In our alternative budget, we cancelled over 1 billion. kr more than the government party originally proposed, for early efforts and more teachers. While the government cut down 600 teaching positions in high school and once again chose to give priority to tax cuts for those who have the most from before, we chose to keep the teachers in high school and at the same time bet on early efforts and a stronger community economy. There is a certain danger that this debate will end with us beating each other in the head with research reports showing each other whether class size and teacher density are relevant to school learning. I hope we've made a step further this time. The working party believes that the teacher is important, and I think we've said it, all man: the teacher is one of the most important resources in school. Then it's natural to think that it's important that we have a sufficient number of this important resource. It can be solved in many ways, but it is the municipalities that are school owners and that employ teachers. The local economy is therefore crucial for the ability to give priority to school, to give priority to early work and to employ more teachers. In recent years, we have seen that several municipalities have had to cut school budgets heavily, and I think it is a pity that the government's municipal structure does not take into account the challenges facing municipalities. I also think it is a pity that there was no majority for the Workers' Party's municipal structure, which would give the municipalities over 3 billion. and better opportunities to prioritize school and to facilitate early interventions. It doesn't help much that government parties boast of funds for more teachers, because GSI numbers show a different reality. Looking at the entire primary school, we see that from the 2014–2015 school year to the 2015–2016 school year, there is a reduction of 180 years of ordinary education for the whole period, from 1st to 10th. The time has come to define a norm that makes the school a priority. The Labour Party believes that a standard is needed to ensure access to resources in schools, a standard whereby those who own, operate and develop schools have the opportunity to give priority to the effort where it is most needed, but just as fully a standard that makes it clear that the school should not be a priority. The hearing found that opinions were shared on the need for such a standard, and not least on how it should look. Some think it should be a norm at school level, while others think it is important to ensure flexibility for school leaders and school owners to prioritize resources in those schools that need it the most. The proposals in the document also point to several different norms at different stages. So there's no clear recommendation on what's best. The Workers' Party's proposal for the programme proposes the introduction of a standard for teacher density at municipal level. It is important that such a standard is developed in close cooperation with the parties to the school, so as to ensure what is the goal, namely more teachers in school. The Workers' Party also supports the proposal to ask the Government to provide a knowledge base on the real situation in School-Norway regarding class size and teacher density. In 2003, the classification division number was removed, but the size clearly stated that the classification division number should form the basis for a minimum level of resource allocation. We support the proposal that the government should explain how this has been followed up. The Labour Party believes that these two proposals are natural to sign out before making a concrete decision on what a standard of teacher's density should look like. This issue is about whether or not to have a nationally defined standard of teacher’s density, whether or not to have standards to ensure access to resources at school. The working party wants a teacher's density standard. It will be more parties – it is just a shame that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left do not want the same thing. I include the proposal from the Labour Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1036	The representative Christian Thinning Bjørnø has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1041	Like the previous speaker, I can fully support the fact that the teacher is the most important resource for students' learning at school. It's the teachers who see the individual student. It's the teachers who both get patches when someone has fallen and turned, and who learns the children to read, write and calculate properly. This is why we have a high teacher density in Norway. It has been a political priority choice for many years that Norway should be one of the countries in Europe with the highest density of teachers per pupil. During this period of government, we have also focused on how important it is that the teachers we have in school, who do a great job every day, get professionally filled up and receive the follow-up they are entitled to and have been asking for for for many years, through continuing education and training commitments, which have tripled since the government change. So what we're discussing today is not whether it's good with teachers or whether it's good with many teachers. What we're discussing is how to use and use the resources that teachers are at school every day. So the proposal we are discussing today is about creating a minimum standard of resources per school for how many teachers there are, divided into students. There are many reasons why the Right is critical of such a state-set and centralising teacher density standard. Such a norm requires that, for it to work, all schools are equally large, that they are equally distant from each other, and that all students have the same challenges. That's not school-Norway – fortunately! There are considerable differences in the size of schools, the size of the classes, the challenges students have and where they are located. That's why I have to say it's a little surprising that the Central Party is supporting a state over-management of local politicians to give priority to the resources where they want it. This is something that can quickly make sense if you sit in the middle of Oslo and think that all of Norway is like Oslo — but that is not the case. In very many counties there are many small primary schools and a major secondary school. If you are going to create such a resource standard, you will find quite quickly that many of the small primary schools meet the national norm, while the high school may have too few teachers, gave the state norm. This, in turn, will result in the local government – not because it is right, not because they want it, but because we in Stortinget, in Oslo, have decided that this should be the case – having to move teachers from the small schools and to the larger school, even though the larger school has good results and is following the students in a good way. We can even imagine a situation where a municipality will settle for refugees and children who cannot even Norwegian, as we now experience in many places in the country. They will then experience that some of the children begin in some schools, but you won't be able to prioritize the teaching resources of those schools to follow up those children, because you have to fulfill a state-set division that requires you to move teachers from a school that needs the teacher to a school that might not need it as much. You can ask yourself, as a national politician, what comes of the fact that virtually no municipalities or counties governed by the parties that are proposing this norm today have introduced it in themselves. What comes from the fact that municipalities have ruled that the Center Party, Christian People's Party or SV, has not introduced a norm in their schools? The reason for this is quite obvious: it will override a rational use of teaching resources. As KS said in the hearing we had this question: such a norm will override and conflict with the criteria we already have to deploy more resources in some schools. Thus, the state divide becomes more important than the individual student’s needs or the individual local government or county council’s impression of where learning resources are most needed in their local environment. Then there is also a question about – as the representative Thinning Bjørnø was about – what kind of norm we are talking about. Some of the proposers propose the norm at school level – I think it will have the consequences that I have explained – while the Workers' Party now says that they will have a norm at municipal level, which, once again, will only lead to what we will do to meet the requirement, is to hire teachers in the largest municipalities and the largest cities – not because the results there suggest that it is the best use of resources, but because the government set the split will rise. Once again, I think it would be a very special approach to start using teaching resources to meet sharing numbers, instead of seeing the individual student. Finally, we're also increasing the teacher's density, and with that, we're going to have follow-up research of 20 million. kr. Let's take an interest in that research before we adopt something today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1064	These proposals aim at setting a standard for teacher density in Norwegian school. There has been a heated debate on several occasions in this Chamber, including in the context of the budget. This is a very costly proposal. The Progress Party will point out that Norway is among the countries that spend the most money per student. We are quite sure that a national resource standard at school level is not the best response to the challenges facing Norwegian school today. The biggest challenge remains to get a lot of qualified teachers, to ensure that students are recruited for teacher training and to ensure that skilled teachers continue to work at school. There's a lot of evidence that the quality of teachers is the most important, not the number. On 1 December, the SSB released the report on increasing teacher density in high school. This interim evaluation showed that increasing teacher density does not have a significant impact on pupils’ learning outcomes. It is worth noting that Norway is at the top of the world in terms of teacher density. At the same time, we know that the Oslo School, which is among the best measurable in the country, has a high average of the number of students per teacher. This shows that there are other things than teacher's density that make the Oslo students good. In the Committee’s consultation on increasing teacher density, it was stressed by several that there are other and different measures that need to be taken. The progress party has shown to the Visible Learning of John Hattie many times before, and we do it again. It is the world's most comprehensive meta-study in school and learning outcomes. None of the studies it deals with show particular correlation between teacher density and outcomes. The brief report ‘Language finding in teaching density research’, published by the Education Directorate in 2013, also concluded that: ‘Nordic and international research shows no clear correlation between the number of teachers per student and learning outcomes.’» Increasing the teacher's density is the most expensive measure you can take at school. When there has also been no demonstrable positive effect, we believe that the money should be spent on wiser measures that we know will have an impact. For this reason, the Progress Party and the Right in Government have strengthened the admission requirements of teacher training and combined this with a new five-year master's training for teachers. More than 5000 teachers per year are offered continuing education in mathematics, English and Norwegian. There are three times as many as when the red-green government crashed. This will train several qualified, motivated and professionally strong teachers. We believe that this is more effective, quality raising measures than a teacher's density standard. We in the Progress Party believe that there are a number of problems related to the proposal on the teaching density standard. It reduces the ability of school owners to prioritise in line with local needs. We also fear that in the worst case, a small, accurate norm could go out on those students and those schools that need the most help. Actually, it's not that interesting – at least it shouldn't be – what the different parties think and feel about this matter. School policies must be research and knowledge-based. This is precisely why the Ministry of Knowledge has launched research projects to investigate the impact of various forms of increased teacher density in primary school. The conclusions of this work will not be clear until the completion of the projects in the 2019–2020 school year. The Progress Party believes that it would be wise to wait for the results of the project evaluation before deciding, where appropriate, on the implementation of costly measures as a teacher's density standard. For the Progress Party, it has always been important for schools to deploy teaching resources according to the needs of students in each class. We should be aware that in a class of 10 students there may be a need for more teaching resources than in a class of 20 students. And until the opposite is proven, the Progress Party believes that early efforts to put in action quickly when a student is working in a trade, no matter what class step the student takes, will be the best action and will be governing how much teaching resources it is put into each class.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1088	The teachers have given us a clear message. They feel that they have too little time for each student. They experience that they are responsible for many students each, and that more teachers are needed in school to provide all students with the help and follow-up they need. Therefore, the teachers and the Education Association are very clear that we need a national standard that ensures enough teaching resources in school compared to the number of students. The Christian People's Party takes the teachers seriously. Therefore, this is the second time in this ageing period that we are proposing to introduce a national standard for teacher density. And that's why several teachers in school have been one of our most important issues when we've negotiated the government budgets with the parties and the left. I am pleased that we have been able to get through the budget negotiations. After the agreement last autumn, Norwegian municipalities now receive approximately 1.3 billion. kr annually earmarked several teachers in 1–4. class. That's approximately equal to that. 1 800 posts. I'm glad this is also starting to produce results. We see that group size 2 is finally going down for the lowest class steps, and I hope that this will become even clearer when we get the new GSI numbers in December, which also includes the appropriations in the 2017 budget. So it's nice to record that both the Minister of Knowledge and other representatives of the government parties have started to talk hot about this bet, but I think it's a pity that the government parties will not agree to introduce a norm that will ensure enough teachers in school. We've discussed this question quite many times in the main hall in this period, and we've heard a lot of counter-arguments from the government parties. Sometimes it has been shown that there are research reports that do not show a clear correlation between teacher density and learning outcomes. It's pretty obvious to me. The point is, if you have more teachers, it gives you flexibility and a room for action to teach in other ways. I have not yet seen a single research report that shows that it does not have a positive effect. Now we heard Asheim say in his post that a prerequisite for a national standard of teacher's density to work is that all the schools are equal and equally distant, but that's not true at all. On the contrary, a national standard for teacher density will ensure that all students have enough time with their teacher wherever they live. Then we've heard that we shouldn't overrule the headmaster, that we're not going to decide where to put the resources. The representative Thorsen was into it – there may be at least as big problems in a class of 10 students as in a class of 20 students. But the Christian People's Party and the SV propose is a resource standard that takes that into account. We propose a standard of average group size at school level, and then the principal can deploy the resources where needed. We've heard the state council say that a school-level norm will mean that in Oslo school, teaching resources have to be moved from Oslo east to Oslo west. Then came the Education Association with information that shows that it is not at all correct, and as far as I understand it, the Council of State has withdrawn that statement. The size has increased by 1.3 billion. kr on the table for more teachers. Now it is a matter of setting a standard that ensures that this money is actually used for more teachers – several teachers who will help the students get the help they need, and that fewer students get knowledge gaps in the first and second classes that have to be filled with special education when they get older. I want to give praise to the Workers' Party. The representative Trond Giske has taken self-criticism into account how the party has thought about this issue in the past, and now the Workers' Party also realises that increasing teacher density is important. I think that's great. Then I will warn against a norm at municipal level, because in a lot of municipalities we have both small and large schools. For the student who sits in a large center school and needs a little extra time with his teacher to be able to crack the reading code, there is a slim comfort that in that municipality there is a small branch school with a high teacher density that helps the section in the municipality meet a norm at municipal level. That's why we need a standard at school. And even though the Christian People's Party believes that the lowest class steps must be given priority – it is important to put in the effort early – we must have a norm for the entire elementary school cycle. If not, we risk meeting the norm by moving teacher resources from high school to middle school to 1–4. class. I would like to address the proposals No. 2 and 3 from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1111	The representative then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1116	I would like to begin by stating that there is a need for more teachers in Norwegian school. It is also desirable to have a higher learning density of many places, especially in the lower classes, where pupils are younger, and where the element of specially arranged follow-up needs to be higher. It's especially important for students who need it the most. That's why we in the Left are also positive to a standard for staffing for the very youngest age classes, for those in kindergarten. In addition, we support the budgetary procedures that we have done together with the Government Party and the Christian People's Party, in terms of increasing the learning density of 1 to 4. steps. Nevertheless, the Left is not over-informed that a general norm for learning density is the best and most relevant answer to the challenges we face in the school in the years to come. For me and for the Left, it is important that the measures we propose, and not least those we spend money on, are knowledge-based and, as far as possible, based on available research. This is not the case at least when you want to go in and out of the school owner, i.e. the municipalities. It's not to say that the research does a good job when it comes to a standard of learning density is the tool we should spend money on in Skule-Noreg in the future. So many students show an added value of increased learning density, especially for younger age groups and for pupils with special needs. At the same time, some of the most recognizable school researchers in the country and in the world point out that the list of best-performing learning outcomes has a much lower learning density. And never before have I seen such a clear conclusion in the introduction of a research report as in the SSB evaluation of their red-green project to 400 million. kr for increased learning density in the youth school: ‘we find no evidence of an increase in pupils’ learning outcomes.’ It is well possible that this is wrong. It might be thought that in the future one will conclude that learning density is the most important one that can be a priority. On the left, we look forward to the research project LEARNING EFFECTS, which will provide knowledge of the impact of multiple teachers on 1–4. Steps may contribute to that debate. But right now we have to conclude that the research is not sufficiently coordinated to provide clear professional advice. Right now we have to conclude that on this basis we cannot or should not instruct Norwegian municipalities in how the local priorities should be. I have to be allowed to say that it is a paradox of not insignificant dimensions that the same parties – exactly the same parties – that yesterday in the Storting were very upset that the Storing can think of changing the municipal boundaries, today with the greatest semblance of self, will override its political priorities in a core area. The representative Lightbakken said yesterday that changing the municipal boundaries was a «overrun of local democracy». Today, the same representative will run over local democracy in the school priorities. It is quite simply that some of us who want municipalities to be large enough to have muscles to make wise decisions and control themselves, while others want them to be so small that it is the Storting that is responsible for politics. Getting more highly qualified teachers into school, providing all teachers with a good supply of skills and career development, and ensuring that skilled teachers continue to work in school is important. And besides, ensuring the recruitment of students for teacher training is very important. That is what I will come back to during the next matter on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1142	More time for each child is the most important thing for the quality of the future school, it is the most important thing for us to be able to create a school that doesn't give up a single child, and therefore this is also a very important debate. Today, we are promoting proposals together with the Christian People's Party, which has broad support from the teachers. It shows the hearing conducted by the Stortinget. It's a national school-level teaching standard that could make us succeed in putting an end to overcrowded classrooms. It's a wish that the students have, that the parents have, and that the teachers put themselves very strongly behind. This debate also comes after we have been documented very clearly how we cannot work to get more teachers and increase teacher density in primary school. It is very commendable that the bourgeois parties have wanted to spend a lot of money on more teachers during this period. There is nothing for which the government should have the honor, but something particularly Christian People's Party should have the honor of. But as long as a national norm has not been passed, there is no guarantee that the money will reach and contribute to increasing teacher's density, and the status is that at Torbjørn Røe Isaksen's watch, the teacher's density in primary school will go down somewhat. It shows with all due clarity the need for a national norm, to ensure that the next billions to go to increased teacher density actually provide for increased teacher density. Such a norm must be at school; that's what will make sure that we win the fight against overcrowded classrooms in every single school where there's a problem. Such a norm must mean a norm for the entire primary school, not just parts of it. Otherwise it'll be like this, like, for example. The Council of State has correctly pointed out that a rapid achievement of the norm can be achieved by moving teachers from high school and middle school to 1–4. steps. SV also believes that the norm should have a maximum of 15 students per teacher from 1st to 4th stage and a maximum of 20 from 5th to 10th stage, in line with what the teachers' largest trade union has wanted. This will solve the problem of crowded classrooms where there is a problem. There are several arguments against such a norm that deserve some comments. The argument about moving resources from east to west in Oslo is already very strongly rejected, and I perceive that the Council of State has taken self-criticism that he has used incorrect information in connection with it. The argument we got here today, that this should be centralizing, falls on its own unfairness. A norm will not take a single teaching position from small municipalities, but it will solve the problem of crowded classrooms where there is a problem around the country. Then I have to link a few comments to the use – or perhaps rather the abuse – of research, for example. This SSB report. There is no basis for saying that school research concludes that increasing teacher density does not work. What is very clear, on the other hand, is that school research is complicated. There are very few interventions one with two lines in the answer may lead to an increase in learning outcomes. And the big paradox is that those parties – e.g. Sveinung Rotevatn’s party – which rejects a standard of teacher’s density based on research – is very much in favour of continuing training of teachers, but research does not show that it provides an increase in learning outcomes. But the left believes in it, and the government believes in it, and I believe in it, because it's common sense that it works. The same is true with increasing teacher density: if we think there's any sense in teachers, we have to wish that there would be as much time as possible for each child for those teachers. There are slightly different proposals for models of norm proposed today. Right, the Progress Party and the Left vote against all. I would like to warn against the model that the Workers' Party seems to be going to the elections on, although I think it is good that the Workers' Party is now ending up with the desire for teachers' density. We have to have a model for the whole primary school, and we have to have a model at school level, if this is going to work. A national standard will facilitate the adaptation of teaching to each individual student, the achievement of the objectives of in-depth learning and early work, and will facilitate the creation of a more practical and varied school where different children can succeed. The representative Tyvand has taken up the suggestions that SV is in minority on in the setting, together with the Christian People's Party. In addition to that, we will vote in favour of the proposals we are on in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1163	It is possible to have a fundamental discussion about state norms, and the representative Sveinung Rotevatn was concerned about something important yesterday, namely that all parties say in the party speeches that they want more municipal autonomy and municipal responsibility, but then we contribute by every crossroads to bind more in the municipalities. I have to admit that even during my period in the Ministry of Knowledge, we have done so in several areas, for example. through further training. But the most important arguments against having a national teaching norm are actually the practical arguments. Let me, before I say anything about it, link a few comments to what has been said. Of course, it is good that you want to use common sense, as the representative Lightbaking wants. But to speak of common sense as a contrast or as an over-exploitation of research, I don't think it's a party that's very uproaring among academics. I don’t expect that to be what was meant either. It is quite right that it is difficult to find fasitant answers and eternal truths in school research, but it is possible, with good, solid school research in baggage, to say that higher teacher density is a costly and resource-intensive measure, and that in Norway we find no correlation between the schools with the highest teacher density and the results we measure. It's both in the learning environment and in the professional results. And once we've tried it out, the last example – the SSB report – shows that it didn't lead to increased professional results on what was measured. The whole premise for this debate is that the municipalities have to be governed more because they are not able to do this job themselves. This is the premise for the debate – during the Council of State of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, this has happened. But I'm not the one running Norwegian municipalities. Some of the games that sit in this room can start by looking in the mirror. SV may not be a large municipal government party, but the Workers' Party and the Center Party control municipalities. Enjoy me, as the Workers' Party and the Center Party govern municipalities! It is striking that you have to go to the storeroom to do the job that you have promised to do for yourself in the municipal elections. The working party also says that there is some sort of poverty out in Kommune-Norway. Today, at 9:12 p.m., a comment article was published by the news editor in the Municipal Report, and that is probably the closest thing to come to VG, Dagbladet and Evening Post combined for Kommune-Norway. It is about the local economy, and there was the headline: ‘Can hardly be better’. He says that the economic situation that has been in Kommune-Norway in 2016 cannot be expected, because it has been historically good. Finally, there are questions about centralization in this, and there's enough reason to believe that where you have the largest classes, you're in the largest cities. It could be an exception, but basically it's like that. Preliminary estimates from the Ministry of Knowledge show that if you had a nationally set teacher standard, with 15 students of 1–4. Steps and 20 students at the remaining municipal level would have 67 pst. of the teachers who would be admitted to the school, went to 37 pst. by the students. And there's reason to believe that the largest recipient will be e.g. Oslo municipality. So you can ask yourself the question: is it in the Oslo municipality that we have the biggest problems with the school results? Is it Oslo municipality that is at least able to lift and operate quality development in its own municipality of all municipalities in the country? I can challenge those representatives who now want to have a national teaching norm: Finnmark has been discussing here as a county where we have, over several decades, had problems with the school results. Does Finnmark have the lowest teacher density in the country? I haven't seen anything to suggest it. Finally, this will lead to resource shifts, and Oslo can actually be a good example. Oslo today has a model for allocating resources between its schools, which are tailored to local needs. For example, Oslo has a funding system that takes into account socio-demographic differences between schools, i.e. the living conditions in the entrance areas of the schools. With a school-level resource standard, the schools that have already been allocated additional resources through the Oslo funding system will have relatively fewer new annual work than schools with less resource needs. To say that in a slightly different way, if the population of the population decided to give 100 million. kr to the Municipality of Oslo to do something about the school differences and raise the quality of the Oslo school, it may be that Oslo politicians, including the current City Council, where the Right does not sit, would prioritise the schools you see having the biggest problems. But then the bulk of the population has decided that the most important thing Oslo can do is spread the 100 million. The heads across the city, to all schools, no matter what kind of neighborhood it is, or what kind of background the students have, because the bulk of the population thinks it's the best policy. I'm for more teachers at school. I wholeheartedly support the budgetary agreements we have made with the Left and Christian People's Party. However, a national standard of teachers, both at municipal and school level, is not effective or good policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1182	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1187	Where the Workers' Party talks about more good teachers with better time, Right only talks about better teachers. Actually, the right does not write anything about any more teachers in its program. Is this how the Right Programme can give the impression that the Right will not give priority to more teachers, but that they must be forced to do so, as we have seen in the comparisons? Can the Council of State today guarantee that the Right will have more teachers in school, or are we going to go into a campaign where the Right attacks the Workers' Party to be clear that we want more teachers and a norm at municipal level, without even having a single answer as to whether they believe that more teachers are needed in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1192	I can assure the representative Thinning Bjørnø that we are not going to attack the Workers' Party to be clear, because there is no basis for this, because in this case the Workers' Party is not clear at all. You've been walking around and pretending that you wanted a teacher's norm that actually matters. One has pretended to agree with, for example. It's an educational union, but then you're not. You want a code at municipal level for 1–4. steps. But the question is simply, What does the government mean? We also believe that more teachers are needed. First of all, it's a banal fact: because there are more students in school, we also need more teachers. We work for increased teacher recruitment and better recruitment in. But also if we, for example, to fulfil our commitment to a strengthened duty for schools for early schooling in the 1st to 4th grade for those students who need it the most, it will require more teachers. In other words, the discussion is about how to use these teaching positions, not whether to have more or fewer teachers, but whether to have a national norm that binds the schools or at least can easily be seen as binding the schools to a particular way of using them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1201	The working party is for a teacher's density standard. Our starting point is the municipal level, because we want to ensure flexibility while ensuring resource access and more teachers in school. With respect to reporting, the Council of State has zero credibility regarding the concern about moving resources between steps. He took away with a pen stroke 600 teaching positions in high school. The council says he's more concerned about how more teaching positions are used than that more teachers are necessarily needed. The Labour Party believes that this is interrelated. The Labour Party shall have inter alia: proposed a read, write and calculation guarantee, which includes more teachers, so that students can be helped to get up to a satisfactory level, e.g. in case of early intensive training. The right voted against the proposal in Stortinget. How does the Council of State actually feel that it is best to use more teaching positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1208	I don't think just throwing around with the term “guarantee” is a guarantee for anything. The Labour Party has a long history of guarantees. It was the health guarantee for Gro Harlem Brundtland – it was broken. It was the Youth Guarantee – it was broken every day the Workers' Party was put in government. And now it's a read, write and calculate guarantee. I cannot order questions from the representatives in the Chamber, which are just and reasonable, but you can ask the following questions: How many have the guarantee been fulfilled in the municipalities governed by the Workers' Party? The working party made a choice on this and must be able to provide figures on how their “guarantee” – which must be a 100 pst guarantee – works today. In the spring we come up with a concrete proposal for a reinforced obligation for schools to follow up students: early efforts of 1 to 4. steps, e.g. through intensive training for shorter periods. It is also likely to require more teaching resources in most places. The response from, among others: Oslo, where the Workers' Party is running, has been that they're dissatisfied with getting more teachers for 1 to 4. step instead of free means, but the lot receives an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1215	The government has repeatedly said that the government's early efforts will require more teachers, but today the government parties will not participate in introducing a standard that will ensure more teachers. I have previously asked the Council of State from this pulpit: how will the Council of State then make sure that he gets the extra teaching positions that he himself thinks he needs? The last time I asked that question from this pulpit, I got the answer that the most important thing is not more teachers, but how we use these doctrines. It is not an answer to the question at all. Now we heard the exact same answer being repeated today. Therefore, I ask the question again: When the Council of State believes that more teachers are needed, but does not want a standard that ensures more teachers, how will the Council of State then ensure that he gets the necessary additional teaching positions in place in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1220	There are several ways to influence and control municipalities. One is to provide funds such as the framework allocation with some kind of intention behind it. That's a very soft way to do it. The second is through the ringing of the funds. That's how the resources of 1-4 teachers are. steps are currently being controlled, i.e. that they can only be used for 1–4 teaching positions. steps. You can have a national norm, which is what we're discussing here. And you can rule with law combined with framework grants. What we have put forward from the government as a starting point is that we should manage through framework transfers – these are the funds that were in place for the municipalities in our draft budget. Then those funds are to be tied, or hit, by an increased legal requirement for the municipalities. There's a slightly more flexible way of governing than by earmarked grants, but there's just as much of a way to manage the funds. So I have said repeatedly that it is difficult to imagine in many municipalities how to fulfil an obligation for intensive training or enhanced training for students in 1-4. class without employing more teachers. I just don't think it's possible for the municipalities to spend almost 400 million. kr without doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1229	We agree that policy, and not least knowledge policy, must be knowledge-based, so my subjective perception of common sense should not trump research. But the same criterion must apply to the Council of State. That's why my question to the Council of State is: it's about being consistent in the review of research. I find it confusing when the government, on the one hand, develops educational research as a decisive argument against our proposals for increasing teacher density, but at the same time does not seem to have any relevance to their own assessment of whether continuing training of teachers is a good measure. I'm not in doubt that it is, but if we're going to be strictly honest, neither I nor the Council of State have research evidence to say that it provides increased learning outcomes, at least not with a greater degree of certainty than in terms of teacher's density. It's a little bit a question of faith and doubt. Is it possible to hope that the Council of State will begin to be consistent in the use of research in these two debates?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1235	In school policy, it is very often not possible to find research with two lines in the answer — in some cases, but a few things. It's about finding out if it's overweight or not. I do not agree that the only argument the government has against a national teaching standard is that higher teacher density as measures without changing teaching methods proves to have little effect in most studies done. Most of the arguments we've come up with here are just about the arrangement of a national teacher's norm as such. It is also quite right that, in terms of formal competence of teachers, there is also cracking research. The last report I saw from Norway, which is then just one example, but not conclusively alone, is from the large research project in Sogn and Fjordane, where an effect was found, especially for mathematical immersion, but not beyond a type of basic degradation – it didn't have much to say if you had a doctorate or 60 study credits.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1244	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1251	Today, the Health Directorate presented a report such as: Takes for granted young alienation. Today's young people are generally well adapted, they are active, they have good physical and mental health. It's joyous, but failure and interrupted education pose major health challenges. The number of young disabled people almost doubled in ten years. This is probably a confirmation of how important it is to get more people through education, through high school. In his speech, the health director said that the solution is not to repair in the health sector but to prevent, and he points to early interventions — in health centres, in kindergartens and in schools. The main school case of the Workers' Party is early work. The prerequisite for this to work is more teachers. And then I think it's important to say that the Workers' Party's proposal on the norm does not involve moving teachers from schools that need it to meet a norm. It is also important to say that the Labour Party has confidence that local school politicians and school leaders, those who know the school the best, will continue to have confidence in doing their job in line with local needs. Then you have to have a room for action. A norm is not enough in itself. Therefore, the Workers' Party also proposes to strengthen the municipal budgets by 3 billion. kr more than the government in 2017. The most important distinction here today is between the parties that want more teachers in school and a norm, and the parties that don't. I think that the right and left here today stands out with a very clear and clear argument against increasing teacher's density and norm. When the Right uses the argument against the norm that it is ‘centralising’ and ‘state override’, it is for the first time fun as a representative from North Norway to hear right-wing representatives speak against centralisation. They also use the argument against the norm that this will lead to priority being given to cities and that the option is to prioritise resources better locally. That rhetoric would make sense if the Right was for more teachers and increased teacher density – and not only when the Christian People's Party demanded it in the budget negotiations. Or it would make sense if the Right was for more teachers and increased teacher density in their programs, as in the proposal for a batch program. They're not. Both the representative Thorsen and the minister of knowledge refer to research they like, that increasing teacher density does not work, and they would rather spend resources on something more efficient, such as continuing education. The working party does not accept the right-designed premise that there is a contradiction between more and better teachers. I understand that it is difficult for the Left, Right and Advance parties to say clearly that they want more teachers in school, but that is what the Labour Party is going to vote on and will give priority to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1266	The Council of State reiterated the point of centralisation and this that a national standard of teacher's density would involve more teachers in Oslo School. I have to say, to me, it's not at all a concern that students in Oslo School will have enough time with their teacher. I think it's important. So I think it's a bad argument that Oslo, because they have such good results on the national tests, is going to be kind of proof that we don't need a national standard of teacher's density. We might have a little bit of precise information about what the state of Oslo school really is. It is about the national tests exempting more students from Oslo school than elsewhere in the country. For example, 30 pst. by students at Gran School exempted from national tests in 2016. There's nothing wrong with it, it's open to the schools. And it was done, in line with the guidelines that lie there. But that means 30 pst. By the students at Gran School we know very little about, and it might be just these students who would have benefited from the fact that there was an extra teacher in the classroom. What we know is that increasing teacher density is particularly important for those students who have professional challenges, and also for students with a foreign background. Then – as the representative Mr. Thinning Bjørnø had in mind – it will be a quick debate in which we beat each other in the head with research reports. There are many research reports that show a clear link between teacher density and learning outcomes. Several reports are referred to in the vote and in the proposals that have been made. But even though it's hard to find research in schools with two lines under the answer, the Council of State doesn't have to just lean on Audun's common sense. He can also look at experiences from his own country, look at what has been done in the Dovre municipality, where there was a targeted focus on more teachers in ordinary education, and see how it resulted in a smaller need for special education. What it's all about is that more students are going to benefit from ordinary education. Then it's a theme that still comes up. This is the question of national governance or municipal autonomy. I believe that we should have a national school policy in Norway. The government also believes this, for example. as regards continuing training requirements for teachers. I believe that we also need to have some national targets, and we need to be able to make some national demands that require all students to have enough time with their teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1275	This is not the last time we discuss more teachers, teacher density and crowded classrooms. It's going to come up again and again in the next few months. I think it's a point to spend some time on some of the counter-arguments. Once again, the use of research by government parties: there has been a lot of talk about this SSB report in connection with the experiment of increasing teacher density in selected secondary schools. So it's a very limited report, which looks at one bit of what's related to learning outcomes. It cannot be used to establish that there has been no increase in learning outcomes from this experiment — and at least not to establish that there cannot be an increase in learning outcomes from increasing teacher density. What is important is, for example: a discussion on how to use multiple learning positions. I'm not saying that it's given that the way the last government did it in high school was a success. But if it doesn't turn out to be, it's not an argument against trying to increase the teacher's density — but maybe doing it in ways other than what's been done in these schools. And then for distribution in Oslo: I just want to repeat again – and this has been heard through the media several times: the norm that the Christian People's Party, SV and the teachers are in favour of is a norm that takes into account, among other things. the main elements of the financial system on which the Municipality of Oslo is based, i.e. the exclusion of resources for special education and specific Norwegian training. It will also be a floor and not a roof, and of course it will be accompanied by resources for more teachers. It is therefore entirely unreasonable to claim that this could lead to redistribution between schools in Oslo. Oslo's school bureau was now out and said she's ready to think about this again as soon as it's on top will be room for extra bets for schools with special challenges. There is nothing in this proposal that prevents it. This will simply mean that Oslo Municipality gets many more teachers. It's not a problem for Oslo, it's not a problem for the outlying municipalities either. Clearly, many small municipalities do not have a problem with crowded classrooms. Well, then we solve the problem of overfilled classrooms where they exist, and then we put measures in place for example. to help Finnmark schools in other areas. Different parties have different views about what should be governed nationally and what is managed locally. I am absolutely concerned that I believe that making sure that no children have to go to a school with crowded classrooms is a national responsibility, while I believe that determining where the municipal border goes – between yourself and the neighbor – is a local responsibility. I simply mean the opposite of what Sveinung Rotevatern means. I think it makes sense that the debate on the municipal border is local, while an overall debate on the quality of school and welfare is a national responsibility. That's why we disagree – and I'm right. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1286	It's nice to be a place where everyone is right. The next one that's probably right, too, is Ivar Odnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1291	Yes, I'll confirm right away that I'm equally correct in my statements. As I said before, arguments and statements are still fairly constant in this case, and research and experience from different areas is used to substantiate the arguments on one side or the other. The representative, Asheim, reads the Senterpartiet's proposal that we want a state override in the matter. It is in itself interesting to hear that the Right today is occupied by municipalities and county councils their freedom to choose their own way of organizing school and operations, when they were yesterday standing in the hiking hall and presented their proposal to just merge municipalities and county municipalities against their will. Then this stands out more as a double communication. The centre party is supported by respect for local and regional self-government, which is also currently occupied by the representative Asheim – municipal freedom of choice. The central party's proposal here is to get a model of whether a teacher resource standard should be at school or at municipal level, which there have been discussions around, and not a proposal for a specific number of teachers per class. There is a difference between a resource standard and a legal divisional figure, which is also well known by the representative Asheim, and this is an average resource that takes care of local needs and differences. Asheim should take note of this so that the debate can take place on the basis of facts. I was on the Dovre two weeks ago, a municipality that has been drawn out as a good example of how they are betting on increased learning density, and got a hearing about how the status is today. Experience is still good, and they still manage to keep the special education that needs to be withdrawn from classrooms, at a low level – they do the individual follow-up of the elephants who need it in the classroom. But their challenge is cut off in the municipal budget. They're gonna cut $10 million. kr during the year to bring the budget together. This is not entirely in line with what the Municipal Report presented today. The centre will continue to work for a general strengthening of the local economy that ensures a better chance for teachers and students – in all classrooms throughout the country – to be happy with a better learning environment and learning outcomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1304	All our students need and are entitled to meet a school with highly professional and qualified teachers. It is crucial for each individual student’s learning outcomes. Our main task as school politicians is to facilitate our students to get help in mastering learning as early as possible. This increases the chances of students doing well in the rest of their schooling. But our biggest challenge today with regard to the teaching situation is, as the representative Thorsen quite rightly said, getting many enough qualified teachers and ensuring the recruitment of new teachers. No one is against more highly qualified teachers in school, but the question is whether a standard for number is the right tool, whether that is what gives the best effect, when we here, as in most other areas, have to give priority to resources and resources. I have been very pleased with the cooperation that the government and the cooperation parties Left and Christian People's Party have had during this great period to strengthen the teacher's density in 1-4. class. The $1,3 billion. kr, which has been granted to increase teacher's density here, has resulted in an increase of 44 million in my county. kr for more teaching positions. It has been an important contribution for our municipalities to be able to follow up the students better and to strengthen the work with early efforts. I am glad that we can now experience the efforts made by the cooperation parties as regards the relationship between teacher density and learning outcomes and the impact of the impact on teacher density and other factors. The research project LEARNING EFFECT will also provide useful knowledge, which can help to provide us with a better basis for making future decisions in this area. It is a cost-intensive and comprehensive reform to introduce a standard of teacher's density, regardless of how such a standard will be combined. In order to assess whether it is a proper bet, I believe we need to be absolutely sure that it is the best tool. We need to know that it won't be a rigid imposition that works against its purpose and limits the school owner's ability to deploy resources and teacher powers where the effect is best, and where it hits those students who have the most and the most need. A norm can in the worst case go out on those students and schools that need the most help, and none of us want it. That is why, in my opinion, it is right to wait for this to happen and wait for a better decision-making basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1317	It was the representative of Odnes who made me redraw on the list of speakers, because he says that making such a state norm, of course, is not State override. Of course it is. It is not the case that national standards are established if you do not believe that the local authorities are not giving proper priority. There is no point in making a norm if you don't mean it. Then the representative Odnes pulled out that we reached, for example. uses the municipal reform, where we also merge some municipalities even if one of the municipalities has said no. But it's about organizing the municipalities so that they can be the welfare producers that the municipalities are every day. But what we're talking about now is whether, as a state authority, we should set standards for how local authorities give priority to the welfare of their citizens. It is almost a little difficult to see why representatives of the Central Party are going to make choices locally when everything is going to be out of control, because all of a sudden you think that they are now giving priority to mistakes. It has also been pointed out that the previous government, the red-green government, introduced these 600 temporary teaching positions in high school. Now I happen to represent a government party, and I think I can tell you what happened in the back room when you created this trial scheme: SV wanted a teacher's density standard at school level, the Workers' Party has been against such a norm, and then you solved it by trying at some schools. So Kristin Halvorsen, who was then the Minister of Knowledge, said that she would be interested in that research and base it on whether or not to introduce a national standard of teacher density. Then came the first evaluation report, which revealed that the purpose of the reform was respected. The teacher's density went up, the number of students per teacher went down, but the learning outcomes were missing. Of course, it also had something to do with the device on the attempt. The device of the experiment was exactly what SV and the Center Party argue for today, namely that it should enter ordinary education, and if there were fewer students per teacher, the students would automatically learn more. They didn't. In that case, it is not particularly interesting to take an interest in the research project that has itself been launched and which reveals that resource use did not have a learning effect. When we argue against a norm, it's precisely also about local authorities, municipalities and counties having to be allowed to prioritize the teaching resources they're sitting on, where they see that it's most needed. It is not certain that the goal is that there will be two pupils less per teacher, but that the teaching resources will be used for special education or that they will be used in other ways, as many municipalities do today. So making a state norm is a state override. If you didn't mean it, you wouldn't make the norm either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1332	Let's make it clear that we want more teachers. Professionally strong teachers are, of course, the most important things for students' learning. That's why the government has, ever since it joined, just prioritised it: tripled the focus on the further education of teachers and intensified the recording requirements in mathematics that we've introduced, and we've strengthened the number of teachers early in the school run. But for the right, local school ownership is strong. School leaders and school owners locally know best where the shoe prints, and how best to use available resources for the benefit of students. A state-defined norm will just undermine this space for action. With regard to the claims that came about Oslo, I have to comment on it. The reason why the Oslo school does quite well is that we have had politicians locally in Oslo who have just prioritised the students, prioritised the school and prioritised the pupils' learning outcomes at school. When it comes to Oslo school, we actually know a lot. That's not what Anders Tyvand claims, that we don't know what's going on in Oslo. Researchers who have attended Oslo School carefully have pointed out many reasons why we are getting good results in Oslo. And when it comes to withdrawing students from Oslo School, you have the opportunity to withdraw students – 25 pst. by students in Oslo School, there are technical reasons for being taken out of the national tests, but there are only 8.4 pst. That's taken out, because Oslo prioritizes letting them go. If you compare it with Trondheim, it is like this in Trondheim, where the Workers' Party rules that you can exempt 5.4 pst. by the students, and they release 4.1 pst. by the students. So almost everyone who can be released in Trondheim is taken out, but at least we didn't do that under the blue rule with the Right in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1343	Audun Lightbakken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1349	To the representative Asheim: First, the Right must walk very carefully in the doors in the case of criticism of state overgovernment – but now leave it. The point here is that municipalities are not going to complain about a measure that involves more resources for more teachers. This is something that will enable the municipalities to do what many municipalities are not able to do today. The right hand side must stop using the SSB report in this way. We also see that in the secondary schools affected by the experiment, the number of primary school credits has increased, and the need for special education has decreased. But most importantly, it is relatively frequent to draw one limited report into income for its view when the Right itself has cancelled the follow-up research that would lead to the evaluation of the experiment. Then I would have been very careful to draw conclusions on something that the researchers themselves are very clear about cannot be used – or, more correctly: is being abused – in the way that the Right operates with now. It has to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1356	I would like to join the last word of the Audun Light Tray, about this by being non-slip. Out of respect for the students who are in classes where there are very many students, and for the teachers who experience that everyday life in Norwegian school is heavy because they are responsible for many students, we should be a little more sober in this kind of debate than I think we have at times been today. This with education is a balance between very many factors. It is the social conditions in which children and young people grow up, the level of education that parents have. That's the number of teachers and the kind of education they have. That's the number of other types of employees, the school health service, etc., and the framework around the school, which is going to be discussed later here today. It's school management, school construction, digital learning tools, school books – there are many, many relationships. Moreover, there is, of course, a balance between centralisation and local governance. In my opinion, involving municipal mergers becomes a little separate. I think everyone in this room is concerned that Norwegian children will have equal opportunities at school, and that is not the case in Norway today. There are so many geographical differences, and then it's natural that the National Assembly cares about it and tries to find ways to deal with it. Then the number of teachers is something that is naturally discussed. There's disagreement in the hall. The Progress Party and the Right stand alone, questioning whether you really want more teachers. When the representative Kristin Vinje talks about it, she goes straight to the level of education of the teachers. She is not talking about more teachers and how to secure more teachers in Norway. The Workers' Party will have a code at municipal level. It's not unclear at all. That is what we have also meant in this party programme. State Council Røe Isaksen answers with a series of rhetorical questions back to the Labour Party representative instead of answering the question he himself received. That's why I want to repeat the question to the Right: Do you want more teachers? There is not a word about it in the proposal for a new programme. Or are you most concerned with one thing: teachers with good education? That's the whole Big Thing for. Everyone here has supported all the proposals and spent a lot of money on the further training of teachers. But do they want more teachers, or do they not want more teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1367	The representative Anders Tyvand has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1372	I just want to comment on Mr Vinje's reaction to my previous article on Oslo School. My point was not that we don't know why Oslo School is doing well. I think there's a lot that's done right in Oslo School, it has good results to point to. My point was not that it is problematic that there are many students who are being exempted. I pointed out on the contrary that it is done in line with the guidelines that are there. My point was that when there are students being released, whether they're in Trondheim or in Oslo, we may not know enough about how these students are doing in school, how these students are doing at school. Maybe it's just the students who don't participate in the national tests, who would have had the most benefit from more teachers, for example. an additional teacher in the classroom to follow these students in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1377	I answered the question that Marianne Aasen asked, both to the representative Thinning Bjørnø and to the representative Tyvand, but I can repeat the answer: firstly, it is that – and this is almost banal – when there are more students, there must also be more teachers. The reason why we work with e.g. teacher recruitment and increasing the performance of both the studies and the profession are just that we will need more teachers in the future, including in the field of education and training. because the student coals increase. The second is that in the Right Programme, for which I have been the leader, we are dedicated to describing the measures and reforms we are going to have in school. And as I said in my answer earlier today, there are several of the measures that are going to require more resources. It's very difficult to talk about resources in school without actually meaning more teachers. When the government e.g. provide an enhanced obligation for intensive training of 1 to 4. steps during this six-month period, it is very difficult to imagine that it will be possible to fulfil it in the municipalities without having to employ more teachers. It is also linked to it in the budget. Now, according to the budgetary agreement, it has become earmarked funds for teachers from 1 to 4. steps. There may also be other things you can use to create better education, but precisely because such a measure, which affects the funds through law, will also require more resources, is the answer to that yes. So the question isn't really whether you want more teachers in school. The question here is whether you want a national teacher’s norm, which governs this in detail. But now the debate is over, so I'm not going to help extend it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1386	I'm not going to help extend the debate very much, either, but I just have to answer the representative Tyvand: what Oslo does – at least, the time I sat in the City Council in Oslo – is to focus extra efforts on just those schools that have students who are exempted from participating in national trials, because then you know that there might be an extra need to correct the effort. That's exactly what's the advantage when you don't put down a coercion or a state standard on how to use teacher resources. It is trusted that the politicians know locally where the shoe is printed, and in Oslo it has been shown that you can reach the students who need it the most, by making sure that social mobility is greater than it is in the rest of the country. It's in a municipality that has major social challenges and a large proportion of students who may need extra lifting. That's where Oslo School actually succeeds better than any other school in the rest of the country. If the representative Aasen asks what I think about the question of whether we need more teachers, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1393	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1409	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1418	I would like to start by thanking everyone in the Committee for a good and constructive cooperation. It is a broad majority who understand that professionally strong teachers play a crucial role in the learning of students. Furthermore, there is broad support that high-quality teacher training is essential for recruiting skilled teachers to schools throughout the country. A little sidestep to the Right's view of this: The Government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, has delivered a record of continuing training of teachers and implemented a structural reform that ensures stronger professional environments in higher education. This fall, the whole country will bring up applicants for master's education for teachers. These are measures that lift the whole knowledge sector. The Committee points out that the admission requirements for access to teacher training were strengthened in 2016, and now the 4th grade in the common field of secondary mathematics is required. This is the simplest mathematics from high school. In this context, it is important to draw attention to the fact that applicants who have passed depression in mathematics, i.e. the grade 2 or higher achieved complies with the recording requirements. The Committee also stresses the importance of attractive teacher training relevant to the tasks and challenges of a newly trained teacher at school. The introduction of master-educated teachers from the coming harvest will be an important step in the right direction. Already, there is very good experience of both the development of search and attractiveness in the labour market from the master-educated teachers from the pilot project at the University of Tromsø. This shows by far that the approach to making the scheme national will be a promise. Of course, in addition to being professionally strong, a teacher must have the ability to learn away, the ability to communicate with children and young people and the ability to be a clear leader in the classroom. This is crucial both in terms of students' learning and in order to succeed in creating a good learning environment. The research-based education, the increase in practices through university schools and the follow-up of employers will make a positive contribution to more people mastering the full range of qualifications for the teaching profession. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Socialist Left Party, therefore considers that supplementary recording schemes should be tested which take more account of this. The majority of the Committee believes that increased admission requirements for teacher training will help to ensure that the teacher students have sufficient skills to master the subjects. The Committee would also stress that for newly trained teachers, a good transition between education and working life is of great importance. For many newly educated teachers, the practice is so-called big. Newly educated teachers must be guaranteed a good start in their professional life as teachers at school. The number from KS shows that 33 pst. of newly educated teachers leaving school within five years. A good start to a career can help more teachers choose to stay in school. In 2014, the guidance mechanism was agreed to continue between the KS and the Ministry of Knowledge. This indicates that it is an objective that all municipalities and county councils should provide guidance to newly recruited teachers. Nevertheless, a report from December 2016 shows that only six out of ten teachers receive this guidance. The report shows that those who are offered believe that the scheme contributes to a better transition between education and training and that it contributes to increasing the safety and awareness of its own competences. The expert group report on the 1 honorary role, presented in August 2016, recommended inter alia: follow-up of new graduates must be made clearer to the parties and the school owners and monitored systematically. Cooperation between universities/universities, schools and school owners needs to be strengthened. The role of a supervisor must be further developed and clearly anchored between the parties. The sense of mastery is important for success, both for students and for teachers, and teachers with a mastery sense are probably also much longer in the job. A guidance system that contributes to this is therefore an objective, and I would like to refer here to the proposals that the Committee is behind. In this context, it is important that local adaptation is possible. In a situation of teaching shortage, the Right considers that increased status and attractiveness through admission requirements, master training and bet on specialist teachers and other career paths contribute positively to recruitment. I therefore look forward to following the knowledge sector further in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1439	It is a three-part proposal we have before us, and I would like to thank both the rapporteurs, who have raised these important issues in the main room, and not least the rapporteur, who has dropped the committee through the work. I want to take into account the character requirements of teacher training first. The Workers' Party cannot support the SV's proposal, but I would like to point out that in 2015 we proposed that the minimum admission to teacher's education is grade 3 in Norwegian and mathematics from secondary school, and that candidates who did not have the grade 4 or higher in Norwegian and math had to pass a compulsory course to qualify for admission to teacher's education. We do not promote this proposal again this time; we recognise that we do not get a majority now either. The Government amended the admission requirements for teacher training at the beginning of the 2016-2017 academic year. The Labour Party will take the opportunity in this debate to say clearly that we believe that the government's implementation of the strengthened character requirements and the introduction of the lead course was marked by urgent work and poor political craftsmanship. It is important that the admission requirements for teacher training are clear. The four-year admission showed that both students and educational institutions were insecure, and that there were different perceptions of how the courses were to be conducted, how much education was to be given, how much examination was to be conducted and how much access to justice was available. This may have been unfortunate for recruiting teachers. We would like to say clearly that we expect the government in good time before the application deadline expires – i.e. actually now – to ensure that the admission requirements are well implemented and that the advance rates are implemented in a better way than last year. The working party believes that the good teacher, as well as being professionally strong, must also be able to learn away. He or she must be a good leader and be a motivating and inspiring leader for children and young people in many situations. It is essential for students to be able to learn, but also to succeed in creating a good learning environment. Many of these characteristics are not identified by means of advance rates or numerical characters. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants educational institutions to make greater use of alternative and supplementary admission schemes, such as: interview-based recording. This is done with great luck, for example. in police training, and there is no reason why this should not work in teacher training, on the contrary. We are pleased that there is a majority in the committee to increase the testing of admission interviews for students for the teacher study. So to the raisin in sausage, the joy of the matter: guidance for newly educated teachers. The Labour Party is very pleased that all parties in the Committee agree that all newly trained teachers should be offered guidance. I would like to take this opportunity to thank in particular the Pedagogians, who have worked well and contributed to the reality of today's decision. The government of Stoltenberg started work on a guidance system, but there are still four out of ten new teachers who are not offered guidance. It can't be like that. A clearer national framework is needed to ensure that all newly trained teachers are covered by the guidance system. Many experience a practical shock, which they do not receive the necessary guidance to deal with. This can help new teachers get a bad start on their careers, which, in the worst case, can help to leave the profession. It is serious that one of three newly educated teachers leaves school within five years. We have to minimize all sorts of factors that can help that happen. We have to make sure that all teachers get a good start on their professional career, and we have great expectations of the government's follow-up to the proposal that is being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1456	In the document we are now discussing, three proposals are being made: the removal of the fourth requirement in mathematics for admission to primary school teacher education; the assessment of other and more appropriate recording requirements than current entry requirements for primary school teacher education; and the introduction of a national guidance system for newly educated teachers. The Progress Party is totally opposed to the first proposal, but we believe that the other two proposals are absolutely worth discussing and are good proposals. To start with the obvious: Professionally strong teachers play a crucial role in the learning of students. A high-quality teacher training is essential for recruiting skilled teachers for schools throughout the country. There are several reasons why, for example, the medical school and law school have a high status. One of the reasons is high recording requirements. With high recording requirements, the status increases and the level increases. It gives high school students something to stretch towards. That's the way it should be. It should be an achievement to get into the teacher’s study. Teacher status. We will also draw attention to the results of the PISA shock in 2001. No matter how we read later PISA results for Norwegian school, we have to state that the results are still too weak in relation to what we should expect. Therefore, clear, concrete measures are now needed to improve real-life education. The real-time and teacher level will contribute to this in the long term, and the character requirement must be seen in this context. Recording requirements were tightened in 2016, and grade 4 is required in common mathematics from high school. The progress party will stress that this is the simplest mathematics from high school. We must be able to expect that from those who are going to train our children. In the case of alternative/supplementary admission schemes for the teacher studies, the Progress Party supports the majority of the Committee, which encourages the government to cooperate with the education sector in order to consider testing alternative/supplementary admission schemes for primary school teacher training, such as: interview-based recording. We also agree with the majority in the Committee that increased admission requirements for teacher training will help ensure that teachers have sufficient skills to master the subjects. When it comes to the issue of better guidance arrangements, the Progress Party is pleased that SV addresses this issue. It is an objective fact that too many newly-trained teachers are given a large ‘practice shock’. This has been the case for many years. It's certainly serious that 33 pst. by all newly trained teachers, they leave the profession after a few years. This is resource waste, and it affects both teachers and students. In 2009, the guidance system for teachers was laid down in a Memorandum of Understanding between the KS and the Ministry of Knowledge. This was continued in a new agreement in 2014. It is worth noting that the final report for the evaluation of the guidance system, carried out by Rambøll in November 2016, shows that only six out of ten teachers receive guidance. The report also shows that those who receive guidance believe that the scheme contributes to a better transition between education and training and that it contributes to increasing the safety and awareness of their own competences. It is therefore necessary to ensure that all newly-trained teachers are actually given guidance. It will benefit both teachers and students. I would also like to use the opportunity to thank the Pedagogians for the pressure they have put on us, and thank you for your cooperation. The Progress Party will also stress that an overall committee refers to the expert group report on the teacher’s role, presented on 15 August 2016, which includes: it is recommended that: ‘follow-up of new trainees becomes an even clearer field of action, that guidance services for new trainees become even more systematic and valid for all’. And on the other hand, ‘University/university cooperation, schools and school owners need to be strengthened. The role of a supervisor must be further developed and made more clear’ – much more clearly – ‘than today’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1486	I would first like to thank the representatives from SV for promoting a good proposal and raising an important debate in Stortinget. It is important that we manage to recruit the right candidates into the teaching profession, and it is important that we help teachers succeed when they are fully educated and are going out and do an important job among children and young people. Unlike the representative Thinning Bjørnø, I am going right to the raisin in the sausage and take the best of it first, and then I would like to say that I think it is very gratifying that a joint committee is now asking the government to design a national framework for a guidance system for teachers to ensure that all new employees are covered by the scheme. We know that there are many who experience the transition from education to work as demanding, and we know that many of those who choose to leave the teaching profession do so in the first few years. One of three teachers leaves the teaching profession in five years. Getting good guidance and good follow-up at the beginning will help more people both succeed in the classroom and thrive in the job. The Christian People's Party proposed this in the 2017 budget negotiations – in our alternative budget. Then we put out money for newly educated teachers to be freed for guidance, and that experienced teachers would be freed to be mentors or supervisors. We did not get that through in the budget negotiations, but it is great that the Storting is now clear that we are going to have arrangements for this that include all newly educated teachers. So for recruitment and recording requirements, which is a matter we've discussed several times. The government parties and the Workers' Party believe that a good math character is what it takes to become a good teacher. I don't necessarily think so, at least not if you have a dream of becoming a social teacher, a Norwegian teacher or a history teacher. Then I think it's more important to be professionally strong in these subjects, and I think that motivation, ability to communicate with children and young people and the ability to be a clear leader in the classroom are at least equally important. Today we have admission requirements for teacher training, which means that you can't get into the study without a grade 4 or better in math from high school. This has led us to miss out on many potentially skilled teachers. Last year there were 367 candidates who tried to improve their math character from high school to get into the teacher's study, without success. Some of these were very good diplomats, but they were just struggling with mathematics. I think that many of these could be excellent Norwegian or community teachers, but they never got the chance. The government has chosen to spend quite a large amount of money on additional math courses for candidates who have never had a plan to become math teachers, and I think that the money should have been spent on strengthening math education for those who actually have a plan to teach mathematics. A good math character does not guarantee that you become a good Norwegian teacher. I think there are better ways to find the right candidates, and if we're going to have a character requirement, it would be more reasonable to look at the character set, or at the character of the subjects you actually want to deepen. Perhaps a practice of recording interviews can be another good solution. This option is already enabled, but only as a supplement to the current character requirement. The Christian People's Party will vote to lift the math requirement, but if it stays, and that's up to it, I think the institutions should have an opportunity to deviate from this requirement if you choose to conduct recording interviews. And so although I doubt that the proposal to lift the four-digit requirement in math will have a majority today, I am glad that the Stortinget will now ask the government in cooperation with the sector to consider testing alternative admission schemes for primary school teacher training. That's what's needed. I finally want to address the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1505	The representative Anders Tyvand has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1510	I would first like to thank the case spokesman for a good account of the work. There is broad political consensus that the teacher's competence and skill are the most important provisions for the quality of instruction. Teacher training, skills requirements and continuing training have been on the political agenda for several years and mainly with broad political unity. The same applies to the introduction of admission requirements for teacher training. Teacher training is a demanding study. The central party agrees that it is important that the students being admitted have professional arrangements for carrying out the study. But there are more concerns than individual characters that need to be balanced against each other in order to ensure the education of good teachers. With the introduction of new character requirements for admission to basic school teacher training, it is interesting to get an overview of the proportion of a year's coal that meets the admission requirement. Of those who have achieved grade 4 or better, there is reason to believe that a large part has educational choices other than primary or secondary school teacher education as their primary or secondary choice. The current academic year is the first in which the enhanced character requirements underlie the intake. Unfortunately, a total of 550 places of study at elementary school are empty because there are not enough qualified applicants. This means, in turn, that the recruitment of the teacher profession will be lower in the coming years, which will force the school owners to cover the positions with temporary additions without the necessary formal teaching skills. What kind of math characteristics did these have from continuing school? We do not share the government's belief that setting the character requirement more and more — in this round of mathematics — will necessarily lead to better teacher training. It might have been more important to ask yourself the question: is it a tool to recruit the students who will become the best teachers? The aim of education is to achieve learning. In fact, it is possible to improve in a subject and reach the goal of competence even in a subject that was not so strong in the primary school or further education. The center party thinks it's more important what the students come out with out of competence than what they came in with. The teacher’s study shall ensure that the completed graduates meet the requirements of competence and are fit for the profession. Good quality in education itself is far more important than implementing symbol policies and setting stricter recording requirements. We are more concerned that potentially skilled students will not be seeking teacher training because they do not meet the entry requirement in mathematics. As you know, in connection with last year's intake, it was opened for the ability to qualify for admission through the pre-graduate courses in mathematics for those seekers who did not have a minimum of 4 in mathematics. Unfortunately, the student's experience with both the contents of the course and not least with exams was very discouraging. But this is not the same as not continuing to work on finding solutions, so that more students can qualify for admission. The central party understands that the trial of foreclosure is an expression that the government party actually sees the need for such a possibility. In this setting, the Center Party has launched a scheme to ensure that the searchers have an average rating of 35 credits, combined with a recording interview that opens up for individual evaluation of the applicant's skill. In this way, you will be able to check if the applicant is a professionally prepared student, without being locked to a four-way requirement in one subject. We understand that this could be a compromise that takes care of the concerns of the various parties. I hope, therefore, that the parties can consider supporting the proposal of the Centre Party when voting on this matter later today. It is said that one must not let the best be the enemy of the good. In this matter, the Central Party feels that the government has blind faith that the entry characteristics of the secondary school are more important than the use of force to recruit motivated students with commitment to teaching, or to ensure that the result of a completed teacher training is what gives the students the necessary knowledge and qualifications. The centre party is concerned that government's symbolism policy will only reinforce the learning shortage and lead to the school's missing thousands of educational talent before they get the chance to show what they're doing in a classroom. The centre party is behind the plural proposal, but contrary to the Labour Party, we have an own proposal which is made here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1540	The representative Ivar Odnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1545	This case is about how we're going to get more people to become teachers, and we're going to stay in the teacher's profession. That's left very busy, so I'd like to commend the proposers for a good initiative. First, I want to make it clear that the Left has made choices to ensure that all newly added teachers are covered by a guide system. We are therefore very pleased that there is now a consensual committee behind the proposal to draw up a national framework for such a system, and that the guidance provided by the decision is in line with the Left's model, which specifically focuses on the area of localisation. There's a lot of talk about mastery for the students and that mastery feeling is important for both well-being and professional results. That's very true in that. But I also think we need to talk about mastering the teachers. A guidance system must help to ensure a good transition between teacher training and professional life, but it must also help to make progress in everyday situations for a newly-trained learner. Me and left don't think it's necessary to legislate such a system. It'll have legal consequences that might not be quite the right medicine. But we think it's time to establish national guidelines that ensure that there is some carelessness when it comes to quality criteria and scope across municipalities, while at the same time it must be possible to align the schemes in different ways to different local needs. Device variation does not require variation in quality. Long-term and systematic work is needed to recruit more people for the teaching profession. I disagree with the proposers that increasing the character requirements for teacher training is a problem in that context. We're already seeing that the applicants for the teacher's education adapt to the new requirement and that there will be more and more applicants with good grades. It is the same experience as when a stronger requirement for admission to general teacher training in 2005 and for the teacher training in 2009. Additional character requirements are in contrast to one of several measures taken in conjunction with others. systematic continuing training and more career paths in the school will raise the status of the teacher profession and lead to increased recruitment of competent applicants in the long term. Being a teacher must and must in the long term be as attractive as becoming a doctor or a lawyer. There's really no reason for anything else. These measures need to be taken in conjunction with other measures – to recruit new teachers, to recruit and further train people with a different background that can be included in educational settings, and to ensure that existing teachers remain in their profession for many years. Here, after my vision and the view of the Left, there is a lot of work left. A little over two years ago, the Stortinget dealt with a left-wing proposal on increasing the recruitment of teachers and reducing school bureaucracy. The background was an estimated undercoverage of approx. 11,000 year-olds in 2020. At the same time, it was about 38 000 apprentices can no longer be found in schools, but in other occupations. About 9 000 non-qualified students in the primary school lacked pedagogical training or came straight from further education. In the last few years, we have both introduced and strengthened a level of competence for unskilled teaching staff. However, the 2014 proposal to ‘propose measures to recruit more teachers from other professions, retain teachers who are in school today, and recruit teachers who work in other sectors, to work at school’ was voted down, with hardly a majority. In this setting, the government side showed up in a upcoming so-called 'whole' strategy to improve the recruitment process. That strategy must be well-hidden one place. I will end with the following: In the 2017 state budget, which was discussed in this room a few months ago, on a proposal from the Left, a scheme was put in place to give up last year's student loans for teachers who complete the new five-year teacher training. This is one concrete and targeted measure agreed by Stortinget to increase the recruitment of teachers in recent years. It'll give you a very economical incentive to get more students to choose the profession. We need more of these measures in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1566	The proportion of unqualified teachers has increased by almost 40 pst. under the Right-Critical Party Government. Where the number of unskilled students in school was reduced when SV directed the Department of Knowledge, it has been strongly shot after the Right took over. If we see this in the context of the government breaking its promise of increasing teacher density, which we have discussed earlier today, it shows a minister of knowledge and a government without the promised executive power of school and knowledge policy. It is serious for students who do not receive the training they require. It is for this reason that we have promoted this proposal to replace unwise symbolic requirements that make teaching places empty, with smart demands, and to introduce a national guidance system for newly-trained teachers that prevents young teachers from leaving school after a short period of time. When thousands of students are taught by unskilled people every day, it underlines the need for these proposals. Let me start with the joyous thing: it's a joyous day when we now get an agreement in the Storting to put in place a national guidance system. I would like to thank all the parties for their constructive attitude to this. It is gratifying that this is happening in the context of the proposal SV has promoted, but those who are going to have the most propensity to do so now are the Pedagogical Students, those who are going to become teachers themselves, and who have worked for years to get this through, precisely because we know that the practical lesson is a reality for many, that many young highly motivated teachers get a pretty tough start in the profession, and that it can lean on colleagues with experience, getting proper follow-up, having a mentor and getting good guidance can be the difference between doing the first tough time and continuing in the profession and choosing another way. With the situation we have with regard to teaching shortages in Norwegian school, it goes without saying that this could be a very important investment for the future. We hope that a good and equivalent guidance system will help to increase the number of graduates in the profession. It's also very important to strengthen the profession community. I believe that the report on the teaching role of the government expert committee underlines the need for this. We look forward with excitement to the follow-up of the government. In particular, it is important that the size monitor the follow-up on the resource side. A guidance system must be accompanied by resources if it is to function properly. So to that which is not as joyous. The much-discussed math requirement is a symbol requirement that has one effect on teacher training, namely to keep motivated young people out of this important profession and that educational places in teacher training are now empty. It is a great paradox that this happens as the proportion of unqualified in school increases. We had hoped that it would now be possible to get a majority in Stortinget to replace symbol requirements with smart demands, for example. an averaging requirement. We fully agree that there is a need to raise the attractiveness of teacher training, but this is not done through a requirement that actually works like this – and this is documented by a number of examples – that students and students with very high averages are excluded from the teaching profession. So if you have good assumptions about becoming a good teacher in English or Norwegian, you're not allowed because you had a 3 in math. It's pointless. The criticism of this has been very clear. We have seen the potential teachers who have stood up, among other things. in the media and in contact with the Storting and told their stories, and these are the government parties, and unfortunately also the Workers' Party, say no when they ask to become teachers. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get Norwegian school is going to need over 4,000 more vocational teachers by 2020. There are vacancies in some educational institutions, and the majority here choose to keep very well-qualified young people out. Now that I have criticized the government for this, I must finally be allowed to ask what the Workers' Party really means. It is not possible to interpret the setting in any other way than that the Workers' Party fully agrees with the government. Then you'll have to take care of it. That's the only way to read the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1590	I also interpret the setting so that there is support for the character requirement that is today, just so it is said. If not, it would be the majority to abolish the character requirement, and it is not. It's worth mentioning, just for the sake of order, that the fact that we have national character requirements for the teacher's study is nothing new. It was introduced for the first time under Kristin Klemet, who otherwise put in government together with the Left and Christian People's Party, with the character 3 in Norwegian, English and mathematics and 3.5 on average, or 35 school credits. Evaluation of this national average showed an increase in implementation rates. There is a clear link between what we call a little clinical ‘intake quality’ and implementation. I want to start by saying that the recruitment of teacher training in recent years has actually been positive. In 2016, for example, this was the case. 1100 more experienced students than in 2006, and teachers’ applicants in 2016 had better grades than in 2015. So we expected a decrease in the number of qualified applicants in the introduction of the qualification requirement in mathematics, but it's also been less than calculated. However, there is a clear decrease in the applicant figures in primary teacher education aimed at 1–7. Steps, and this is a serious challenge, and we need to work harder to recruit applicants for teacher training at the childhood stage. The positive thing is that it appears that students at GLU 1 to 7 are more likely to complete their education. I have to hurry to add that the math requirement doesn't apply to all mathematics; it concerns the mandatory starting math, the R math, and not the depression math. For the subscript math, the character requirement doesn't apply, so you can actually go in with the grade 2, even because it's so advanced mathematics. We know that students with high intake characteristics rarely fall from the study and therefore character requirements for admission to teacher training can contribute to better implementation in the long term. The ambition of the government is that this, together with master training and a number of other measures, should also increase the performance of both the teacher’s study and the profession. It is also worth mentioning that mathematics is a compulsory subject for all students in the education of 1–7. steps, so the argument that it is irrelevant would then only apply to 5-10. steps, for all teachers taking 1–7. step, has mandatory mathematics and is qualified to teach mathematics. NOCUT has documented the link between high mathematical characters from high-level and good results at the national delec-sample. It is also worth mentioning that billing is a basic skill in school, that is, something to permeate all subjects, or to be seen again in all subjects. The character requirement in mathematics was announced in 2013. In other words, it has been notified for a long time, and I believe that changing the character requirement now, after a short time, could be both confusing and discouraging for many. At the same time, I would say, as I have said several times before, that we are going to wait to do what the government has the ambition, namely to introduce further, stricter character requirements, until we have made more experience with the math requirement. I am also concerned that the performance of the test for those with the grade 3, but want to qualify by taking the test, will be better than it was last year. So to the raisin in sausage, the good news, namely, the guidance system for the newly educated: I'm very happy that a decision has been made that you want a national framework for the guidance system, and that we're going to work with the partners to get it done. I want us to do that, that we're going to be in support, but also have some clear framework for kindergarten and school owners, because it's not good enough that there are only six out of ten graduates who say they're getting or have received guidance. I'm going to invite the parties to meet about this and follow it up. Finally, the numbers from KS that 33 pst. by newly recruited teachers end within five years, have received a lot of attention and have been used. In the Ministry, we have now received new figures from the Statistical Central Bureau, which is based on educational data from each year of school leaving and which are quite different from the KS figures. We're now going to work on looking at what this discrepancy is all about. These SSB figures indicate that it is not that many newly educated teachers leave the teaching profession during the first five years of education. New entrants have more frequent job changes and a looser link to the labour market than older workers. But the numbers are still very stable. Among the teachers who graduated in 2010, there were 62 pst. who worked in school the same harvest. After completion of education, this proportion was increased to 69 p.m. and remained stable for the following years. Five years after education, the job was 70 pst. of the 2010 coal in school. Nevertheless, it is a nuance; it is not an argument against having a better guidance system than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1611	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1616	In these days, many people wonder if they should apply for studies: What should I become? Where do I come in? Which studies are suitable for me, etc.? I hope that many of those who are now wondering will choose the teaching profession, because they are needed in the future. However, at last year’s admission, there was considerable uncertainty about the new admission requirements — how the courses were to be conducted, how much training was given, how much access to justice, exams, etc. I said in my post that we expect the government to have taken action and have made sure that this does not happen again. Can the Council of State assure us?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1623	I can assure you that we are working to get an even better performance of these tests than we had last year. I'm still going to rely on the institutions to implement, and not make a fixed national A4 layout for how to have the education in advance. For example, it would. made it more difficult to do what they are doing now in Tromsø, where they make a more comprehensive arrangement that students attend in the past, not just an advance in the summer. I am also concerned that there should be clear and clear rules for access to justice. It's worth mentioning that although there's always going to be a professional discussion about the problem itself, it's not we, but our professional bodies, that's the Education Directorate, who makes this task, and it's the ones who also do the exams in school. I trust that they will do a good job. In the end, I think both the representative Thinning Bjørnø and I agree that more people should do what he did, namely take a teacher's education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1632	I thank you for the answer from the Council of States and, of course, I fully agree with him, at least in the last instance. But we're afraid that the mess that happened last year may have had a negative effect on the reputation of teacher training, and it's important that we get insurance from the council that this is cleared up. To put it another way: in the case, a unanimous committee is in favour of establishing a national framework for the guidance of newly-trained teachers. We're very happy about that. We have great faith that a guidance system can help teachers get a better start in their professional life at school. Can the Council of State say something about what national framework he thinks needs to be in place to ensure that all newly educated teachers are offered guidance?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1639	I think it's a little wrong to do that, all the time the Storting also said this should be developed in cooperation with the parties. But I can say something about what I see as a rather important nuance difference between what was SV's original proposal and what is being decided now. I do not see the decision now that Stortinget wants the state to fully take over the guidance system – which is the employer's responsibility – for which the SV's proposal might be understood. But I see that the Stortinget says very clearly that here the state has to do more, play a clearer role and create some national framework around the guidance system that ensures that it not only becomes a theoretical opportunity or something that is entirely up to the municipalities, but which all newly educated teachers get to participate in. But more detail, I think it's a little too early to say anything about now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1648	So last year, there were 367 candidates who had such a strong desire to get into the teacher's study and become teachers, that they chose to take part in an advanced course to try to improve their math character, but unfortunately they didn't succeed. Many of these were very good at diplomacy, but they were really good at math. There were probably few of them who had a plan to become math teachers, but some of them might have a dream of becoming Norwegian teachers, social teachers or history teachers and also had good grades in these subjects. My question is simply: does the Council of State think that some of these candidates could become good Norwegian teachers, social teachers or history teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1655	I'm sure they could be – just as I'm sure every year there are a lot of good doctors who don't get into the medical study, a lot of good journalists who don't get into the journal study, a lot of good potential nurses who don't get into the nursing school. So this is not an individual judgment – even if it is – but this is because we generally believe that higher character requirements to get into the teacher’s study are important, both to get students with even higher grades and to increase the performance of both the study and the profession. Then you just have to note that it could be a good Norwegian teacher, but it cannot be because of the math character, is nothing new. For more than ten years it has been that if you, for example, So if you have 2 in mathematics, but 5 in Norwegian, you didn't get into the teacher's study. The second thing that's worth mentioning – again – is that on 1–7. Steps are mathematically mandatory for all the teachers, and that is, all the teachers are expected to go to school and actually teach mathematics, even if you take depression in another subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1664	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. After all, we received confirmation that the Council of State also believes that today's admission regulations mean that we are missing out on some potentially good teachers in the future. And then I wonder: does the Council of State think it is more important that a Norwegian teacher is good in mathematics than you are good in Norwegian? And if that's not the case, wouldn't it be more reasonable to have a character requirement that looked either on the average or at the subjects in which you have a plan to deepen? Then I only have one more question, which I hope the Council of State will have time to answer. He said that students with higher grades are less likely to drop out of the study than others. I was just curious: do you know that this applies specifically to math characters, or does it relate to the overall level of character?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1673	Finally, we will now be able to examine – after this – whether this leads to higher implementation. But the point is that the higher quality requirements of students, as the math requirement implies, also lead to better implementation in general. So my point is that any recording rule makes someone unqualified. And the point here is not that mathematics is more important than the other subjects, but the reasoning for Tyvand also applies today, before the character requirement. Even before we introduced this, it was that if you had 2 in mathematics and 5 in Norwegian, you wouldn't get into the teacher's study, even if you could become an excellent Norwegian teacher. And this was carried out by the government where the Christian People's Party itself was sitting. They didn't have the Minister of Education, but you're collectively responsible for it. One of the reasons we didn't choose to raise the average – it's of course a little dependent on how to add it – is that in the short term, it would lead to a larger drop in recruitment than raising the math character. It's one reason – not the only one, but it's one reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1683	It was an interesting admission the Council of State just came along when he said that Norwegian school is now missing out on good teachers – his comparison with, for example, The medical school doesn't last. We do not need students at the medical school, and Norwegian doctors' offices and hospitals are not full of unskilled people as temporary workers for doctors with education. But that's the situation in school. Not long ago, Dagbladet presented the story to Eline, who has 5 in English and 5 in Spanish, and who wanted to teach in English and Spanish, but who doesn't get into the teacher's study because of his math character. Then my question is, how can the Council of State defend that Eline gets no, while he himself makes sure that more unskilled people agree to teach at school? In view of this situation, it would not be smarter, for example. trying to raise the average requirement for teacher training instead of requirements that thus exclude high-quality pupils?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1690	Firstly, there is nothing in this government's policy that allows more unqualified people to teach at school. If you're not qualified as a teacher, you never get permanent employment in school. The new thing that has happened with this majority is that there has been an instrument to do something about it: money in the budget — at the initiative of the Left — that the unqualified can apply for in order to document their teacher training. So this isn't a confession; it's just a statement. When you get individual things, it doesn't matter that this automatically means that you couldn't become a good teacher. But all in all, in total, our job is to look at higher intake requirements that can ensure both better recruitment and higher long-term performance for the study. The impression has been made that there are so many available places of study. If you look at the historical figures given to the Committee, you will see that it is not unique that there are vacancies. It's done every year. And this year – compared to 2006 – we have several applicants for the teacher’s study, even with higher character requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1699	It is tempting to ask whether the Council of State believes that those places that are empty because applicants like the ones we mentioned here do not come in will lead to more or less unqualified people in Norwegian classrooms in the future. The answer to that is so obvious that I'll leave it. The government's argument in this case does not hold. But over to the joyous one, that is, the national system that is now going to come into being for guidance. For SV, it is not crucial how it is done, but that we get a system that includes all newly added people. That is why I am very pleased that we have come to this arrangement. But there is a great deal of responsibility in the Council of State, not in the Council of State alone, but in some form of process with the parties, where the Stortinge place one decisive leadership, namely that there should be a system that takes care of all new entrants. It would be interesting to hear – although I admit it is early – how the Council of State has now intended to move forward in order to reach such an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1709	I am, as I said, very pleased with that consensus, and I believe that it is a very reasonable decision, because it balances the responsibility that must lie in the municipalities. And I think that's important. We cannot take over the responsibilities of the employer, even for municipalities that do not do their job well enough. At the same time, we need to have a greater state involvement, greater state involvement and some clear national framework. The first thing I want to do is simply to call the relevant parties to the meeting, and then I believe that a relevant party in this context is also e.g. Education students, not just trade unions and adult organisations. Just in the end, since the representative Lightbaking mentioned it in the introduction to his question, it would be that if you average the character requirement 4, it would also have an unreasonable impact. It could be a student there, for example. has a dream of becoming a Norwegian teacher, who has 5 in Norwegian, but nevertheless not 4 in average, which will not come in. So that reasoning only works if you're not generally in favour of a national character requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1718	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1723	Only a brief explanation of vote: SV votes against Roman numeral I in the vote, despite the positiveness of trying out alternative recording schemes, both in teacher training and generally in higher education. But we believe that when the majority goes in to keep the 4th requirement in math, and at the same time we are in a situation where too much use is made of unqualified people in school and places of study that are empty in teacher training, it is not the time to make the entrance to teacher training more urgent by trying this out. So this is a proposal we would very much like to vote for, but given the majority's refusal to do anything about math, we're voting against it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1728	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1744	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1753	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs from the Labour Party, who have put forward this proposal for the gradual introduction of a single school meal, financed and justified as a public health measure. Norway has committed itself to the goal of the World Health Organization to reduce the premature death of non-infectious diseases such as heart and car diseases, diabetes, coal and cancer by 25 pst. by 2025. Among the global objectives of the Public Health Report in Norway is to stop the increase in diabetes and obesity, 10 pst. reduction in the incidence of insufficient physical activity, 25 pst. decrease in the incidence of increased blood pressure and 30 pst. reduction in the average intake of salt or sodium. The Committee points out in its recommendation that the objectives mentioned may be affected by early efforts related to better diet and physical activity in the school. The Committee points out that many countries have a well-developed diet and meal system at school. In Sweden and Finland, all the elephants in the base school are legally entitled to a free school meal daily. In Norway, 10 pst. of the 6th grade and approximately 25 pst. in a situation such that they do not have breakfast, and approx. 10 pst. of children between eight and eleven years of age have no food in the school. This is the situation in Norway, and it shows the potential we have for the introduction of a school meal to make a difference. The Committee is in the configuration of the system of subscriptions for fruit and vegetables, which has been reduced due to low uptake. The elevens daily ate fruit and vegetables went down after the scheme was changed from being free to becoming a subscription scheme. Children and young people have a less fruit and vegetables than the professional recommendations, and it should worry us. In the public health message it was decided that it should be easier to choose health. The Committee emphasises in the setting that the school is an important venue in this respect. In this setting, a joint committee shares the view of the proposers that ensuring that children receive healthy food during the school day is one of the most effective things to do for Norwegian public health. It is also confirmed by the Council of State in his letter of reply to the Committee. Well-organised meals and good meal experiences also mean much to well-being and can also contribute to a good learning environment. A joint committee welcomes the fact that several local initiatives have been taken around the country and that several schools have started up with several forms of meal in the school. The Committee also gathers that it is necessary to seek out schemes that can support good initiatives for action on healthy diets in schools. The Committee also shares the concern expressed by the proposers about the social differences in health. The Public Health Report of the Institute of Public Health, dated 26 October 2016, shows that there are greater social health differences in Norway than in many other European countries. Women and men with the longest education live six to seven years longer and have better health than those with the shortest education. There are also differences between municipalities and urban areas. The proposers point out that universal action – targeting the whole population – works best to mitigate health inequalities. Although the Committee agrees that healthy school meals are important, only the Central Party supports the Labour Party proposal today. In addition, the central party proposes to ask the government to ‘assess the introduction of a fully funded school meal at one grade in secondary school at the start of the school in 2018’. What we think might be a way to start such a phase-in. That is also what we have prioritised in our alternative budget for this year. We want to use the school as a real pre-constructor. We want to introduce one hour of physical activity every day to the school. We want to strengthen the teaching of swimming. We want a stronger bet on fresh school buildings and good outdoor areas, safe school beds, reintroduce the system of fruit and vegetables and start work on a school meal. I include the proposal from the Central Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1781	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1786	The rapporteur has well described what is behind the proposal, so I do not feel the need to repeat why we have proposed this, but only have a brief reflection. I agree with everything Kjersti Toppe said. It's a little about how we discuss these questions today, versus when I became a big-time representative almost 12 years ago. I think that in many parties it has become a recognition that the Community arenas we have, where we meet all the kids at a fixed time many times in a week, are some of the most effective arenas we can use to prevent, balance differences and achieve many other good things. Why am I pointing at it now? Well, if you look at the Committee's comments and how the various party groups and across government constellations now express themselves on the matter, this is no longer a very ideological and valuable debate, as we had for some years ago. I remember very well that we have had debates where those who thought it was our job to lubricate food for our kids, take the kids out on weekends and keep them active were one wing, and on the other hand they were the ones who thought it was almost just school, kindergarten or state responsibility. It's no longer like that, I think it's good, and it says something about us being knowledge-based. A Joint Committee acknowledges that this is a good measure. So just the question is how it's going to be implemented, and who's going to pay for it. The Council of State points out in its letter of reply that there are now so many good projects in so many municipalities – and supports it – that it must now get older and go. It's a very good input into the matter. It is rather very good that it is not an ideological crusade against the proposal, but a more cautious approach to whether this should be prioritised within the overall framework or not. I think this is positive. The world is moving forward. I address the proposals to which the Labour Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1797	The representative of Torgeir Micaelsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1802	In the treatment of the Public Health Communication — Mestringence and opportunities at school, diet and physical activity for children and young people were discussed in depth. There is a good picture that the school meal is of great importance to the health, well-being and learning environment of students. It is widely known that well-organised meals and good meal experiences are of great value to well-being, and that this, together with physical activity, contributes to a good learning environment. I believe the school has a clear responsibility to strengthen students' awareness of diet, food and health. This was also decided by the majority of the Committee when examining the notification, by pointing out that under the Training Act, the school should focus on promoting the physical and mental health of the student. Below it is that the school, among others. shall facilitate social arenas, through, for example: time to and gathering around the meal. All I have mentioned here is important and can be very well taken care of without a statutory measure on a free school meal. On the right, it is primarily the responsibility of the parents that the children have a healthy and varied diet. At the same time, we believe that parents and school health services are important partners to stimulate good eating habits both in kindergarten and in school. And we are concerned that children and young people should be given the opportunity to make healthy and good dietary choices both at home, at school and in leisure situations. I would also like to refer to the Health Directorate's national school meal guidelines, which are adapted to different age levels. Practical advice is given to schools on how to deal with questions related to the student’s school meal. The guidelines assume that the student will bring his/her own food package, while at the same time the school will have arrangements for students to subscribe to milk and fruit. The tradition of bringing your own food package, whether in kindergarten, school, work and outdoors, is very widespread in Norway. Out on tour, never sour – with a brown cheese slice in the bag – is good Norwegian culture. In 2013, the Health Directorate carried out a survey showing that 98 pst. by students from 1 to 4. Steps and 95 pst. from 5th to 7th grade. steps are taken with their own food package. I think this is a good basis to build on. That's over 71 pst. In high school, she brought her own food package and 80 pst. of the country's secondary schools have canteens or food stalls, are also positive. At the same time, I think it is important to stimulate high school education to make good food arrangements, whether it be as if it were a fruit, canteen or a food market. Here it is important to focus well on tempting and healthy food for the students, so as to avoid developing a trend where they trade fast and unhealthy food in the local store. Unfortunately, it happens a little too often. Healthy diet with consumption of fruit and vegetables and physical activity undoubtedly has a positive impact on children and young people’s mastery. It is therefore positive that many schools and municipalities have started different meal arrangements, with different forms of funding. This should be stimulated and further developed. Health and school health services also have a responsibility to provide dietary advice to parents, children and young people. A new action plan on diet, presented in March, underlines that good dietary habits are emerging early and that action needs to take account of them. I look forward to the plan coming to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1823	First, let me thank the proposers for keeping track of an important theme relating to school food, diet and nutrition in children and young people. We know that nutrition and diet are vital to growth, development and good health throughout life. The dietary habits of growing up provide the basis for later dietary habits. This is why it is particularly important to facilitate a varied and healthy diet for children and young people, both at home and at school. In Norway, we have a long tradition of bringing food packages, whether at work, on a trip to forest and land or at school. This is firmly anchored in the Norwegian people's soul. Today, parents are responsible for children eating lunch and bringing food to school. I can and many with me a lot about this, for everyone who has children has been standing morning after morning and lubricating food packages. I've done that, more people in this room have done that. Maybe it's not always as enjoyable to be food-packed butter, but it's after all my responsibility that my child gets rich and good food. Without food and drink, as the hero knows, it's not good enough. We know that hungry children often have difficulty concentrating. We know that sugar affects the level of activity in the wrong direction, and we know that fat can gradually lie on the body if you are not careful. However, it is not the food or diet alone that causes malnutrition or underweight in children and adolescents. Low activity level, including: as a result of many sedentary activities, may be recorded, bullying and all forms of pressure are also involved in shaping the development of the child. Psychiatric health — or ill health — is also a very important factor affecting both food intake and activity levels. The theme of this debate is to serve school meals in public. As I said at the outset, parents today are responsible for the fact that the children have food with them at school. This is what the Progress Party wants it to remain. Unfortunately, there are some children, approx. 10 pst., which doesn't get food from home. Of course, these children need to assist the school and the public, and parents/consultants also need to be contacted in order to establish that there is no care failure. This is one of the main reasons why this government renewed in 2015 National Professional Guidelines for Food and Meals in School. These guidelines need to be seen as a tool that hopefully helps to reduce social differences in living habits both in school and elsewhere in the community. They point out the importance of cooperation with parents, they say something about the need for meals, nutritious food such as fruit and vegetables, the importance of water and milk as drinks, the importance of time enough to eat, and they say something about measures schools can do to care for those students who have not been fed. Such a measure may be granted through the SFO scheme. I'm familiar with many schools offering lunch and then lunch at the SFO. Then the cost is added to the SFO payment. SFO employees are also careful that other students can have food there without food. There are also schools that, in cooperation with parents, have opened up to simple daily school meals, and also here parents pay an agreed monthly sum. Eating is about more than being saturated. The social gathering point represented by the meal is important for the community and for creating well-being. I think that most parents in our enlightened society know what is healthy and right food for their children, but I also think that enhanced cooperation between school and home could help to make parents aware of the responsibility they have for their children's diet. I would like to stress that the question of introducing a free school meal for all students is also a matter of priority for the school's financial and human resources. All in all, I am pleased that this government has chosen to use its public funds for interpersonal public health measures, the strengthening of health and school health services, the strengthening of cooperation between students, supervisors and schools, the establishment of psychologists, massive efforts to combat bullying and empowerment of teachers. In particular, I am pleased that this government has put mental health in children and young people on the agenda, as one of the most important public health measures. Through one or more of these measures, I am sure that we will reach the families who need some support in their everyday lives – also to get the food packages on the table during the lunch break.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1846	Food, meal, communion, belonging and nutrition belong together with good public health. Eating healthy is one of the best and most effective things you can do to improve public health. The school thus becomes an important arena together with parents and also school health services. Yes, I'm actually choosing to mention the school health service, because it thinks the Christian People's Party can contribute to providing knowledge to parents, teachers and students about the importance of meal and healthy food. That's why the Christian People's Party has really invested in the school health service and got other parties to earmark a lot of money for this, because we think it's an important incentive. Good food and proper food are related to well-being and not least to the ability to take in knowledge, and so you can get a better learning environment. It is also important that the school owner, who is a municipality or county municipality, and the schools themselves take this inward and facilitate meals where possible. In my home municipality, a principal himself took cracks in the sails – as we say – and started to make lunch in the simple way at school. This is a big primary school with 400 students. He cooked oatmeal a few mornings a week. Kids who were at home alone because their parents had gone to work came often without having lunch. With simple grips — a potted oatmeal, drink and good drink — this spread among the kids, and it became a place with good food, good community and relationship building. For the school this did not cost much in dollars and ears, but it created more calm, increased well-being and better relations between students and teachers, between school and home and between several students. Should the municipalities be able to facilitate simple action, I think it is good for a majority of the committee to write in a note that there is a need for support for investment in conversions or the establishment of school kitchens, canteens, dining areas, etc., just to facilitate good local action. The Christian People's Party, like the rest of the Committee, is concerned about the many social inequalities we see in our society. This can be shown again in simple things as if kids were bringing food when they were going to school or not. The food package is no longer a matter of course, and it's the kids who actually suffer from it and often fall out. The Institute of Public Health states and substantiates in the matter that income, education and residence affect health, and that differences in life and health can be seen if the differences become too large. So there can be a lot of prevention in a good meal. The Christian People's Party would like to participate in a trial project, but we have a responsibility for the budgetary settlement we have concluded, and will therefore come back to it on another occasion, because we see that this is not how old patterns are forever. We actually want to look at simple steps that can improve public health, and we think a good Community meal in school can actually do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1865	Me and SV fully agree with the representative Bollestad that a school meal, and for that matter more physical activity in school, we should have had a long time ago. For many years now, Norway has been different in this area. There is a kind of strange, almost moral, overtone in the debate – not so strong today, but a little present today too – that there is a bit of immorality in not eating its food package. But the kids are going to do it. I think I'm going to bet a tener that most people in this room don't bring food packages, that they prefer to eat their lunches in social relations with others in this house, a finished, freshly made meal, which is well composed, and where they can also get fruit and green. And at our political meetings we have very often fruit and green. What it is that doesn't mean that you shouldn't make sure your kids do this at school, I really don't understand – and SV doesn't understand it. We know that this is important for learning, but we also know that it is very important for health. That is why I am pleased that the Health Committee is discussing this, because it is health policy. I remember when the government we sat in took over, we got at least in place fruit and green in school. But on the same day that the current health minister launched an expert committee for healthier food in the store, the government cut the school fruit scheme. So you went to the children's apple hose, and at the same time you decided to increase the tax-free rate on alcohol. It says a little bit about the priorities that the government has done. I think it's bad public health, it's bad policy towards the children, and that's bad policy in terms of learning. I don't know if the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party want to have the food package as part of the so-called cultural canon in Norway – maybe that's what it is. I think we now have to modernise in this area. SV will propose and provide us with a free school meal for our children and more physical activity. That's good for public health, and that's good for learning. It's modern, and it's actually not a luxury measure, as it sounds like someone thinks it is. It's actually going to be for both bananas and teachers, as the discussion has been around this. SV is pleased with the initiative taken by the Centre Party in this matter. We are going to support the proposals in the vote, but we are of course going to follow this up because we have this in our programmes in the future. And then we assume that the parties that agree with this today also agree to it after the election, as we expect to have a new government that can implement this measure, which it is high time to implement. We know enough about health and inequalities in health to know that this will play a big role. I've visited several schools in the last few weeks. Some of them have simple food arrangements in place under their own control. They are good, and they say it works very well – especially for some of the children who are struggling. But there's also a community between the teachers, who eat with the students, and between students who are not so much together, because you like to stick to the class you're a part of. This also creates a lot of social learning and not least good friendships across ages and who we are. That's when you're a child, that's when you're a youth, that's when you're an adult. So why we think it should be so very different for the children than it is for us sail, I don't understand. I think we have to realize that it belongs to the past that we should not serve healthy and nutritious food at school. One of the schools I've visited is a high school that serves oatmeal in the morning. That works great. Students who, before almost never got to school, meet now, get food before they start teaching and thrive on their everyday lives. It's so great to see that it's almost touching. The fact that we are not going to help municipalities to get this going for all the students from the state authority is completely impossible to understand that rich Norway cannot afford it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1880	Food and meal at school are of great importance for the health, well-being and learning environment of students. Many schools, municipalities, or school owners, often referred to in this context as those who have established good, different arrangements in cooperation with students, parents and other cooperation actors. This is something I'm yelling for. Some of the good examples that Karin Andersen's representative was in, are also schools that I myself have visited and seen that this is something you can get to most places if you want to. Health directorate's survey of meals in school in 2013 shows that the food package still has a solid position in primary school, while one in three drops the food package in secondary school. But there's also a lot of schools already have different canteen solutions, and a lot of schools also serve lunch. The Committee refers to the NCD objectives to reduce the premature death of non-infectious diseases through action in the fields of diet, physical activity, tobacco and alcohol. This requires broad efforts in many areas. The government and the state support the work of municipalities and school owners with meals in several areas. The Health Directorate’s professional guidelines for the school meal focus on the social importance of the meal and not least on the need to give sufficient time to eat. The school fruit scheme is an offer to those who want to subscribe to fruit, and TINE offers subscriptions to school milk. The National Centre for Food, Health and Physical Activity has established an idea bank with examples of good food and meal arrangements, and the Health Directorate has developed a course for canteens in cooperation with the Agricultural and Norwegian Information Offices. NM in school lunch, which I myself attended at the final, helped to focus attention on the meal and how it can also be used in teaching. It was great to see the strong commitment of the youth who participated in the NM. In 2016, 24 municipalities received grants for local cooperation on the organisation of food services in schools, and their experience is now incorporated into the Idea Bank. Thus, many municipalities are trying out or have already established different types of school meals. That's very good. Representatives point to challenges arising from social inequalities in health, lifestyles, obesity and obesity as a justification for the gradual introduction of a school meal funded by the State. Education and work are central to reducing social inequalities in health, and the country is also using strong tools to achieve school outcomes in this area. At the same time, we contribute to improving children and their diet and habits. This will also be seen in a new action plan for better diet that will come in March. I am particularly concerned that the food industry takes on a social responsibility and develops and offers healthy products that are easily accessible. I have therefore entered into an agreement of intent with the industry about this, which is now in progress and is working. This could also help to reduce social differences in diet. The Committee points out that the State should be able to support municipalities with the construction of school kitchens, canteens, etc. It is the municipality that is responsible for implementing a public health policy that meets the local challenges of each municipality. Dietary care is an important part of public health work that the municipality must take care of in the planning work, for example: by facilitating the possibility of preparing food and eating common meals in school and kindergarten. These are important elements of the Health Directorate’s guidance on public health work and of environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools. Physical activity, together with a better diet, is important for the prevention of obesity and lifestyle diseases. Now we're trying out models for extra time for physical activity and physical exercise at the juvenile stage. These models are now to be evaluated. I trust that the municipalities, as they know the local conditions, will take the necessary steps to provide students with a good framework for the meal at school, and to contribute to good health, well-being and learning environment in school. As I said, the state contributes in a number of areas to make this job easier in the municipality by disseminating knowledge, providing guidance and providing good examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1898	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1903	Health director Bjørn Guldvog is out in the media today with a statement of concern that we are slowing down in the health situation in Norway compared to other countries. In particular, the Health Director points to the health problems of young people and stresses that growth, schooling, further education and work are closely linked to our health and the number of years of life we have. Today, the Labour Party is proposing the gradual introduction of a single school meal, funded by the Ministry of Health and Welfare — as a public health measure. The answer from the Council of State to the Committee is that of the public health measures that he sees the State to finance, this is not what he wants to give priority to. And then I wonder: doesn't the Council of State see that with this answer he is far on the way to closing the door to a proposal that is completely in line with what public health researchers say is the most important thing, namely universal action and early action?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1910	I don't think any of those who heard my post experienced it as a door that was closed – on the contrary. There is an incredible amount of good going on here, and this is growing up with different local solutions in the municipalities, and the state is contributing with it, and I think that is a good solution. The areas in which we have prioritised using more direct government funding are universal actions that reach everyone, and I fully agree with the health director's analysis today. That's why the government, along with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has prioritised closer to 1 billion. More to the school health services and health centres, which have contributed to the development we saw under the previous government, namely that the supply of children and the mental health of young people gradually deteriorated in the municipalities, has now turned around, and that we are in the process of recovering as we inherited. It is also the case that early school leave is important for early school leave. That's why this government's priority is very clearly a great boost to school competence through the Teacher Lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1919	What's hard to understand is that health sisters, school health services and good efforts for learning, that is, good teachers, are going to run counter to this. Good teachers are a school policy measure that we fully agree with, and we have granted more than the government has done. We have also allocated earmarked money for school health services and health sisters in the municipalities. We also fully agree that this should be lifted. But once again, why does the Council of State not want to go this last step with what we see is the most important thing in a nutrition perspective, in a public health perspective? In the preparatory work on the action plan, we talk about children and young people – and we meet all children and young people here. Isn't the Council of State concerned that he is now closing the door, as he tells us in his reply that he does?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1926	There are no doors that are closed several times because if the representative says so. There are many good ways for municipalities to make good meals in school, both when it comes to the school itself offering meals, whether it's lunches or lunches, or it's about making arrangements for the time the children need to eat the food they have from home. That's what today is a main problem in school, that the food package is not being eaten because the children don't have enough time to sit down and eat the food package, in a good environment with an adult present. It is also important that the actions we take from the state are knowledge-based and that they are targeted at the areas where there are real challenges. I am very much in favour of the development of different solutions, but I am also very much in favour of the fact that it can be done precisely on the basis that the state contributes with knowledge and experience, and that the municipalities find the local solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1933	Governments often say to me that action is better than an action plan. Now, the Council of State refers to a new action plan for better nutrition, while at the same time cutting out free fruit and vegetables and being for a school meal as long as it does not cost the state money. My question is whether it doesn't bother the Council of States that government is so defensive when it comes to diet and does the opposite of what the Council of State said in its reply instead, to prioritize universal action that reaches everyone. How, then, can this government cut out free fruit and green, which had just reached all children and young people, regardless of background? It also applies to the question of school meals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1940	We prioritise universal action that reaches everyone, but it's not always we use the same instruments as the Center Party and the Workers' Party want. That is why I very much agree with the post that the representative Torgeir Micaelsen made as the main feature of the Workers' Party in this area. I believe that the efforts we are making – for example. In cooperation with those who make and sell food in Norway, reducing salt, saturated fat and sugar are universal measures that reach all. We don't use the left-hand side and the Center Party's traditional tool, which is fees and regulations, but we use cooperation as a solution. We have faith in local democracy, and we have faith in the municipalities. We believe that when municipalities see good examples from other municipalities, when they get knowledge of how important this is, when they get guidelines and guides from the state that tell them how to do it, we will see that there are many different solutions emerging – not construction solutions that are kind of about everybody building a canteen at a school that should look like this, but solutions that are adapted to local conditions. We see that this leads to more and more schools establishing different solutions, but they are adapted to local conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1945	I have another question about fruit, because when the Council of State says that he and the government prioritise universal action that reaches all, I have to ask once again: how can the Council of State defend to remove a system that was for all children and young people? How can the Council of State as Minister of Health defend it? Another question about the subscription scheme: In the article, the Council of State said this is an option for subscribers. In fact, many schools in Norway do not offer the subscription scheme. Is there something of concern to the Council of State? The last applies to time for a school meal: 50 pst. of the schools meet the professional requirements of 20 minutes. What does the Council of State do for it – what has he done, and what will he do in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1954	What we have done about the school fruit scheme is that we have prioritised the subscription scheme, which is a voluntary scheme, which the municipality and parents can use. It is also the case that policies sometimes deal with priorities. This government has given priority to using the money used by the previous government for the statutory requirement for fruit and vegetables in school, to start up and implement the knowledge promise we now receive for the further education of teachers, because we believe that through the subscription system and through more competition for fruit and vegetables in the store, most people can send with their children an apple or a banana in the school bag. But no parent can send with the children a competent teacher in the school bag, who can catch up with those who have the biggest challenges of learning in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1959	I sat and waited for it to come, it's this strange contrast that's set between having good meals for the kids and enough teachers. This is a priority if you want, I'll record that the Right has not done so. It is also a reality that the difference in health is great. It is not solved by subscription schemes, because then there is someone who can afford it, and someone who can't afford it. If we're going to reach all the children, including those who have the easiest to get hit by social health differences, making a common meal is the best solution at school, because there are all the kids going. Then we all get to the kids at the same time. A subscription scheme is also not a common social meal — it is one and one separately, and some have and some have not. This is completely contrary to what the Council of State thinks. Why does the Council of State feel that there is a need to choose between fruit and better teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1964	Prioritisation is not about contrasting things with each other; priority is about putting something ahead of something else. So I'm not going to learn in any way about public health policy or about social inequalities of a party on the side of the tobacco industry when it comes to the fight against children and young people becoming dependent on tobacco. It's amazing that SV is able to talk about social inequality, health and public health without blushing when the party in Stortinget votes against the introduction of standardised tobacco packages and snuff packages. Tobacco remains the main explanation of social inequalities in health in Norway. Every year 6,000 people die as a result of tobacco use in Norway. The Institute of Public Health is very clear that the risk of death is not socially equally distributed. No, tobacco is a main explanation of social inequality in Norway, and SV is on the side of the tobacco industry in that fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1970	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1977	Around Norway, many children and young people are struggling with concentration through school day. An important and correct approach for many of them is to get nourished during the time they are at school. Too many, especially young people, drop lunch, and many of them also drop lunch. That means they go a whole school day without eating anything at all. Then they get tired, they get unmotivated, and they get unfocused. Unfortunately, not everyone has parents who make sure you bring food to school. For some people there may be completely different themes that are in focus at home. There are not always children and young people getting healthy and good eating habits from home. Then the school is a good venue where you can prevent and give good habits from the beginning. Unfortunately, not all schools have canteens available either. Therefore, the proposal to support investments in the conversion or establishment of canteens or school kitchens is very important. If we want schools to organize meals, we must also encourage them to do so. In the case of municipal politicians, there is little incentive for more than State grants for non-statutory tasks. Because it is a fact that there is no school meal at the top of the agenda for economically hungry municipal politicians. If we believe that it is preventive and health-promoting that Norwegian school students eat a meal during everyday school life, it is actually that we have to do something active about it. It is too random that it is up to which municipality and which county you live in, whether or not you get an offer. Because you are so lucky to live in red-green-yellow-steered Aust-Agder, all high-schools now offer lunch to the students from the fall. They've realized that it's a tool to create a better learning environment, and they want everyone to get a good start on the day to deliver their best for the rest of the school day. For schools that have done this, what many here have pointed out is that it is discovered that a class shares a meal together, makes bridges build across groupings in the class environment, and it does something about the environment. A class where you know each other and are social across groupings, prevents bullying and exclusion, and it creates well-being and security. There are many good reasons why a meal at school is a good idea. On the other hand, it is not only useful to agree on it and talk about it, you have to act and facilitate it, and that is exactly what the Workers' Party wants the Storting to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e1990	Norway is one of the few countries that do not offer school meals. Recently, all the colleges in Sandnes said that they would have the canteen if there was room for it at school. A principal at one of the high schools said that with a canteen offer all the students would be guaranteed food during the school day. The alternative of using the local store is not a real alternative. When students are at school, they are responsible for the school, and they cannot take care of it outside the school. That, of course, is not a desirable option either. There are more and more schools in the country who give a single supply of food to their students in their own budget, precisely because they see the value of it. They are consistently showing good experience, and students greatly appreciate the offers. Whether it's lunch or it's another school meal, it's important — yes, it's basic — to get enough energy for a long school day, to have the opportunity to choose healthy alternatives that provide saturation and energy for a long day at school and a good basis for activities to take place after school. The current situation also has a significant social and behavioural impact. Sitting down regularly and sharing food, and not least culture, has a value in itself. This may be under-communicated in the debate on school food. This is of great importance to individual life and to the psychosocial environment at school. Not all students experience meals at home that are well-organized, and that have a socially evolving dimension beyond saturation. From this point of view, the school meal will make a significant contribution in addition to the nutritional development of the student’s psychosocial development and to the psychosocial environment at school. It's hard to understand that some parties can ride the principle of growing a food pack idol in schools, a food pack idol that far from it includes all the students. No one wants the food package to live, it has good conditions on family trips on weekends and as a good supplement in long days with activities beyond school time. This is a broad health promotion that will reach a large extent and will receive strong support from, among others. Country group of health sisters, who have just both nutrition and psychosocial development as one of their focus areas in school health services throughout the country. Let's give our children the best basis for offering a single school meal, funded as a public health measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2007	I couldn't dare to take the lice fit that the Council of State suggested to start talking about tobacco advertising. I have to remember, in the name of propriety, that in that case, the Council of State put forward proposals to lift the age limit and ban on tobacco goods – candy – for children and young people, in shiny packages of Disney figures, while adults were to have gauze green packages. Everyone was against it, no one understood the berry, President – I'm sorry the expression! The National Institute of Public Health, the Cancer Association, the National Association for Public Health, said, "What in the whole world is this council of states thinking about? The councils stood on their own, but sometimes, and not so rarely, the Storting is wiser than the councils of state. So in this case, the councillor was rescued by the gong and hung in, so that we got this hit in a relatively decent way, and the gong in this context was the case rapporteur Knutsen – I just remember it like that on the tamp. So I hope the council doesn't talk so much about measures that will prevent the bad behavior of children and young people, because here he has a big pig in the woods, which we've managed to chase out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2012	I obviously met a sore point at the Council of State with the quite unanswerable answer I received. I have been anti-smoking all my life and have fought for smoking laws and advertising, and it was probably such that you might be persuaded to agree with the Council of State on the matter. But to make it the most important issue in the fight against serious illness and death caused by tobacco seems a little strange to me. We have had many other measures that seem much better. So there were different views about it, but I have never met the arguments that the Council of State had on this. I think it was a very strange attack, especially because what we're talking about now, and what I asked the Council of State, was whether it really was such that the government couldn't afford to prioritize the kids getting both fruit and green and more teachers. It is quite possible to do so, because it has been provided within its budgets, without any major problems, but then we haven't given priority to a lot of money to the wealthiest in the country. What I don't think the Council of States is responding to in these matters is: when we know that universal arrangements are the best way to balance differences in health, and we know that school meals and what children eat are very important against social health differences, how can he argue that voluntary schemes with subscriptions should be able to replace them? Because it doesn't. It doesn't replace it for anyone. It's the way a lot of schools do this -- yeah. That's good, but here the state should contribute to this being done everywhere. It's a good way to spend money, it's a very good way to spend public money, to ensure public health for the kids in the future and good habits. In addition, there is a very positive contribution to the social difference between school students. In fact, I actually thought that we were quite in agreement on this, but with the government's a little rabid attack on me when it came to tobacco legislation in this country, I realize that ensuring that more children get a school meal is quite remote from the government's intention to give priority. I don't think good residents in the country are formed by the number of sweaty brown cheese slices you've consumed through your schooling.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2023	The debate took an unexpected and exciting turn, and to that we can perhaps only conclude with the following: The King has equipped the Kingdom of Norway with a health minister who believes that the anonymisation of tobacco packages is a more important public health measure than a schoolmate. There's something historic about that thing, but there we are today. Most people lived a breakfast before going to school, but not all. Most people have lunches, but not all. And not everyone has healthy food. Children from higher social teams are more likely to carry food packages, and food packages are more often healthy. There are major health differences in the population, and they are beginning to evolve early in life. Sunn habits in childhood continue to reproduce, and vice versa. Malnutrition, overweight and concentration problems resulting from poor eating habits are an increasing problem among Norwegian children and adolescents. This will be reflected in future health statistics with an increasing number of people with lifestyle-related diseases. Unhealthy food and lack of physical activity are among the greatest threats to the future public health. Effective measures must be taken to reverse this trend. A school meal is primarily a public health measure, but it will also have a positive learning effect. Research centres for health-promoting work, the environment and lifestyle, the HEMIL Centre at the University of Bergen, have concluded that scholastic food increases the concentration and performance of students. Different studies show that the elephant as a regular and has a balanced diet, which contains fruit and vegetables and a suitable amount of fat, makes it better at school and works better socially. A research project with a school meal at four northern schools concluded that both the elephants, parents, and teachers were happy. Students gained more energy and became less tired at the end of the day, reported teachers after the project. The Health Directorate has also recommended, on a professional basis, that free milk, fruit and vegetables should be available throughout the school. They also recommend that testing school meal models, especially at youth level, be considered. Many countries also offer school food today. Our neighbouring countries Sweden and Finland have long traditions and good experience in providing students with school meals. The purpose of the school meal in these countries has been to give students the recommended nutrition, energy, but also to help students maintain their concentration for learning while they are in school. SV has repeatedly proposed this. It's huge that several parties start to see the same thing as we do, and join in the struggle for school food. This is the way to go for the public, and he's a little bit bigger than the anonymization of tobacco packets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2040	I will withdraw the matter to what the proposal is actually about. It is to ask the Government to make proposals on the gradual introduction of a single school meal for all ages, financed by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and to ‘point out different options for funding, organisation and facilities of the school meal’. This proposal falls. I would like to make it clear that there is not a proposal to introduce a national school meal to all schools. There is an intentional proposal in which the government could come back with a case that this can be introduced from below and up, and the best way to do it. It's an intentional proposal where the Stortinget, if adopted, would have given a clear signal that this is something that the Stortinget thinks is very good about a given, because it's an important health priority. We have had many proposals for school meals in this period, at least one, but the new one with this proposal is that it is now in the Health Committee and it is to be financed from the budget of the Ministry of Health and Health because it is an important public health measure. A joint committee says in its opinion that ensuring that children receive healthy food during the school day is one of the most effective things to do for Norwegian public health. As I see it, I agree with the representative of Torgeir Micasen that it seems that there is a new recognition that food and nutrition are important. We have almost a classy diet in Norway, but in school we can go in and secure a healthy diet for all children and young people. Looking at the configuration of the committee, there's a lot of consonant, and you can get the impression that now there's a new recognition. Today's debate and the Council's reply have brought in the good old dividing lines when the Council of State answers that it is more important to use these funds, which were used for free fruit and vegetables, to finance further education for teachers. Progress Party representatives are honest in the debate that they do not prioritize a free school meal. There's a food package that's going to apply. I think we have a way to go to get a free school meal, at least a school meal in Norwegian school, but the most important thing is that we have to start looking at this as a public health priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2051	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2067	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2076	I must first clarify that I am meeting as an alternate of the representative of Ketil Kjeseth this week, and it is Kjeseth that has been the case rapporteur in this case. My post is therefore essentially his post. First of all, I would like to thank the representatives who have promoted the proposal. Health professionals constitute an important profession for many users and patients. In recent years, there has been a large increase in the number of health professionals in both the country, the municipality and the private sector. We know that the need is going to grow further in the next few years, especially from 2025. We're assuming that in 2030 30 pst. of all 18-year-olds choose health education in order to keep up with today’s standards in the care and care sector in Norway. It is gratifying that the Committee very much agrees that we need to actively and offensively recruit to ensure access to enough health professionals with the right and necessary skills in the years to come. A unanimous committee even believes that work on recruitment must start early in high school, and that in particular work needs to be done in a conscious way so that more boys also choose health and care. The increase in the proportion of men entering the health and care sector will be crucial in order to be able to recruit sufficient labour into the sector in the years to come. In addition, it is important that users meet a service where both sexes are represented, and for the working environment it is also important to ensure diversity. The Committee wishes to establish and develop a number of measures to recruit more men and suggests that a lot of good work is being done, such as: the recruitment rate Men in health, which aims at recruiting men into the health and care services. However, it is also important that the community sector strengthens its efforts to increase both the number of apprenticeships and to ensure that the apprenticeships tempt the health professional to further work in the profession. In too many cases, young apprentices are rather frightened than tempted by apprenticeships in the care sector in the municipalities. A varied apprenticeship, in terms of both tasks and responsibilities, is important. Unfortunately, too many people are assigned to routine tasks without follow-up. This is a recruitment policy that we can neither be familiar with nor afford – we have no one to lose. The Committee agrees that targeted, systematic recruitment and competence policies are essential in the development of the health service of the future and refer to the Report. St. 26 for 2014–2015, the primary health service of the future – proximity and completeness, and Meld. St. 11 for 2015–2016, National Health and Hospital Plan. Both messages underline that we are facing increasing and changing health care needs. The whole of society is changing, with major technological advances, and this means that the needs of all sectors need to be changed at a rapid pace, as is also noted in the health and care sector. Proper and timely competence in the right place is essential in order to ensure equivalent healthcare throughout the country. Health professionals are an important group of specialist health professionals, but the Committee would stress that the need for primary health services in municipalities is particularly great. That's also where most health professionals work. Competence in 2020 includes a number of measures to strengthen and enhance the competence of the municipal health and care services and to provide four health professionals with attention. The Committee would stress that it is important to ensure relevant and up-to-date training and that it is good that work is under way on the renewal of the professional offer structure. It is essential that education is adapted to the needs of the sector. The Committee points out that poor Norwegian knowledge can constitute a barrier for health professionals and is therefore pleased that Competence Grant 2020 provides incentives to establish professional language training in the health profession. Both refugees, asylum seekers and migrant workers will be a possible source of increased health professionals and help us maintain both the capacity and quality of the sector. New technologies can tempt more people into the sector. This may also be one of the contributions to recruiting more men. It is important to facilitate access to the sector with both a different educational background and other real skills. It is therefore gratifying that all parties support the so-called Y-route to qualify for nurse training. Career opportunities are important in all sectors. Finally, I would like to add on behalf of the Left that post-secondary education must also be promoted as particularly important in the context of continuing education. Experiments are now under way with new syllabus with a separate direction of study in welfare technology at the post-secondary level. It is important that health professionals, such as dental practitioners, medical secretaries and activists, also have access to such training courses. These are professional groups with extensive experience of patient contact.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2097	Competence and human resources are the largest and most important input factor in the healthcare service. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that we be able to develop a more targeted and systematic recruitment and competence policy. Society faces significant challenges in providing health care to all who need it in the future. There is a need for a comprehensive review of education systems, how we organise ourselves, work sharing, skills requirements, career opportunities and a systematic provision of continuing education. There are few areas that are as competence-intensive as health. We do not achieve the objectives of quality and patient safety without skilled professionals. We have a lot of different health professionals, but the health worker is one of those who have been mentioned to a small extent in the matters we have been dealing with during this period. The Labour Party believes that we need to further develop a strong trade union that works closely on patients and users. There is a need for more learning places, better career opportunities and better qualifications for adults. Never before have so many young people chosen a health profession in higher education, but despite the great need for labour, many fall from the way ahead. The apprenticeship system has many advantages. The content has been developed by those who are required to use the competence. The employer has a unique opportunity to provide training in basic values, attitudes and practical skills. When other health professionals only have practical placements in education, we understand that it takes some time before the health sector learns to apply the apprenticeship system. As an apprentice, one should not only learn about the subject, but also how one should use the subject in interaction with colleagues, deal with management and other professionals and cooperation. The apprenticeship is trained in the profession at the same time as the employee and thus becomes socialised into the profession. It is a unique learning venue that has given us a competitive advantage through independent skilled workers in crafts and industry. This potential should also enable the health sector to make use of it. The apprenticeship system is an effective recruitment of future workers, while many municipalities continue to regard the admission of apprentices as a community task to provide youth training. The reality that meets fully educated youth is unfortunately municipalities which offer them at best a small percentage position combined with vicariates. Municipalities will not be able to attract young people until they get this done and can offer them fixed 100 pst positions after they have finished their education. The interaction reform sets great demands for new competences. Municipalities must use the opportunity they now have to attract the most motivated young people. Many people in adulthood want to work in the health sector. Good, flexible systems adapted to adults need to be developed in order to provide them with formal skills. There are also many immigrants, and they also need well adapted language training courses. Vocational schools must also be developed further. In the case, there are also a number of other measures that we believe will help raise the status of the health professional. The government has had a main focus on higher education. The working party also believes that there is a need for a high level of skilled workers in the health sector. We need an analysis of the role of health professionals in the health service of the future and a strategic plan based on that analysis. But it's very pleasing – and I think I can boast especially of the one who's going to have the word after me, for having made an effort here – that after so many years we've managed to introduce the Y-way, so that health professionals who want to do so can learn to be a nurse without having to take the detour of study competence. It provides good career paths for health professionals, but also the breadth of the nurses, because having the practical approach to the subject is a value in itself, and we need that diversity in the health sector. There are different ways of knowledge. Practical approach is equivalent to an academic approach. The Y-direction should also be further developed towards protective care. We know that the University of Oslo and Akershus have started, and we look forward to colleges around the rest of the country also taking this chance. I am thus promoting the proposals that the Labour Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2126	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2131	If we are to have a well-functioning health service, we need to ensure availability of stable, good and up-to-date labour. Health professionals are one of the carriers in healthcare. That is why, like the proposers, we are committed to facilitating the conditions for more health professionals. The Government has developed its own plan for recruitment, competence and professional development in municipal health and care services, namely Competence Lift 2020. Here health professionals have been brought forward as an important group. We need health professionals in all parts of health care, but the development of the more specialised part of health care demands increasing special skills. We see that in hospitals there are growing demands on the knowledge of employees, so it is important not to lose sight of the need for more specialist nurses and nurses with master-level education. We therefore agree that more health professionals are needed, but we also believe that having the highest possible level of specialist healthcare is important. We disagree that a separate strategy and action plan should be developed to increase the number of health professionals. We believe that the whole work is in progress and the measures that have been taken must continue. For us, it will be a wrong way to develop own analyses and action plans for a single personnel group. The staff and the various working groups in health care must be seen in the context. The government has launched several measures to improve the recruitment and skills and apprenticeships of health professionals. Funds have been allocated for new recruitment measures, training is given for unskilled people to lead to professional letters and authorisation as health professionals, and skills and innovation grants are provided for the initial, further and subsequent training of staff in health and care services. In addition, in recent years we have greatly increased the apprenticeship grant. Work on involuntary part-time is ongoing, and the social partners play a major role here. At the same time, many small units are a challenge when tournaments are going up. We just saw a gruesome example from a municipality in the South West that announced a position of 4.7 pst. That's not the way to do it. The proposal proposes measures to ensure appropriate, up-to-date training for health professionals. It is now the case that the Directorate of Education continuously revises the vocational curricula on the recommendation of the professional council, and the government has launched a review of the professional offer structure. The renewal of the profession shall ensure that the training is well adapted to the needs of establishments for qualified skilled workers. The social partners have made representations on their skills needs through their professional advice. We want, like everyone else, more measures to recruit men for the health and care professions, and realize that this is something that sorts under several governments. Here I would like to encourage the government to coordinate efforts between the departments concerned. We want to create the patient's healthcare. It requires an overall approach to the entire healthcare system, not least when it comes to training the health workers of the future. There is a good work going on in this field that will enable us to meet future needs throughout the healthcare system. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its unanimous support for a proposal for a recommendation that the government should draw up an alternative scheme for nurses based on the pattern of the Y route for engineering training. The thanks I received, I would like to send back to the committee. I did not experience very much resistance when I made this proposal, and it is unanimously adopted today. It's very joyful. This proposal ensures that health professionals without general study competence can, in certain cases, continue to train as nurses. It's positive in several ways. It allows health professionals to develop further, and it can give us some nurses with a more practical approach to the subject, which is very useful in the field of engineering. This does not mean that we weaken the qualifications of our trained nurses, but we may get more nurses with a broader background of experience. I am convinced that this can contribute to more people applying for a career in healthcare. That being said, I disagree with the representative Grung, who says that a practical and an academic approach to a course of education is equivalent. It's not exactly equivalent. We have to make sure that the theoretical knowledge is good enough, that one is able to complete a nursing education, and also that they have the knowledge they need when or if they become nurses.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2152	I want to start by saying that I am very happy that the proposers are raising this important question. We are all aware of the future challenge of care for the elderly, the large increase in older people living longer, and older people with complex and multiple diagnostics, providing increased skills and staffing needs. At the same time, we are witnessing that technological progress is progressing at a crazy pace, which, of course, offers many new opportunities, including: by allowing treatment that previously could only be given in hospitals to be given locally in the individual municipality, where those in need of care and treatment live, but which is also challenging the level of competence of health professionals. This also makes the need for the right person in the right place and with the right competence very important in the future. That is why I would like to point out the Council's response to the proposed representative, because it makes a very clear reference to a number of measures that are already being taken to meet the challenges of the future in the health sector. It will be particularly important to enhance the competence of employees in both the municipal and hospital care services. A very important measure with which the government is now fully involved and with which the Progress Party is well-followed in the future is Competence Lift 2020. This is the government's plan for recruitment, competence and professional development in municipal health and care services. The purpose of the plan is to contribute to a professionally strong service and to ensure that municipal health and care services have adequate and competent staff. This follows up both the primary health notification, the escalating plan in the drug field and the government’s care plan, Care 2020. Competencelift 2020 consists of six strategies. I do not explicitly reproduce them, but I stress that they are all very important to follow up to ensure that we will have enough health professionals in the future, but also to have enough of the other personnel groups to meet the challenges and ensure patients’ health needs. As a result of an increasingly complex population, the need for language understanding and language skills of health and care professionals is also increasing. It is therefore gratifying that the government has strengthened and extended the introduction programme, and also introduced mandatory training in Norwegian and social skills, in order to allow more people to qualify for the Norwegian labour market. Finally, I would like to point out that there are also educational courses today in which, through one year's addition, the addition of health-care workers to nurse training or other health-care training is possible and can ensure general study competence. We also see that there are many who are already using this scheme, which must be said to be unprecedentedly positive. It is a fact that in the years to come we will need more and more competent health professionals — and that applies to all categories. Of course, the government is aware of this and has also pointed out the situation, among other things. in the primary health notification and in the national health and hospital plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2173	First, I would like to thank the Workers' Party for putting the health worker on the agenda and for raising a debate on the need for health professionals and other occupational groups in the health sector of the future. The future will need more health workers with skills adapted to the tasks to be solved at all times. We know many different occupational groups in health care today. It may also be necessary to think differently and new ones, and new professional titles and new tasks will be added. I would also say that there is not only increased specialisation that is necessary, but also broad competence and lifelong learning. This has been pointed out by the government in several communications to the Stortinget, both in the Primary Health Communication, in the National Health and Hospital Plan and in the Public Health Communication. The health professional is part of a core wall of all the competences that constitute a comprehensive health service. I'm a hospital doctor myself. Every day I work with health professionals and see that competence is crucial. We'll need more health professionals. The Christian People's Party also believes that we need new professions, new competences and new specialities in the future, depending on where development is going. New technology offers new opportunities. Even today, patients are receiving advanced treatment at home — auxiliaries, monitoring equipment, other ways of providing healthcare. Health professionals can assist in self-training, home rehabilitation and self-treatment. We just have to realize that there will be big changes every year. At the same time, the majority see that continuous change and knowledge lead to the need for lifelong learning. It must be possible to make a career close to patients. This is why the majority will not only facilitate health professionals, but also so that these workers can build their skills for nursing training in an easier and more flexible way than they do today. So the engineers have done it before them, with great luck. Nursing and health professionals are women-dominated. Some measures have been taken, such as: Men in health, together with Nav, KS, county councils and municipalities. This is important, but it is also important that we, as politicians, socially involved people and the media, speak out these subjects. Fagene need an increased status and not least a living wage. One step on the way to getting enough places in the vocational schools is to reintroduce government funding for vocational education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2186	Projections prepared by the SSB show that in Norway there will be a significant shortage of health professionals for years to come. With 69 000 annual works, health professionals, including caregivers and caregivers, are the largest education group in health and welfare services. There is already a shortage of staff, such as: is due to large age-related take-offs. Projections show that there will be a deficit of between 10000 and 18000 health professionals in 2020 and between 35000 and 52000 in 2030, depending on the underlying assets. The imbalance in the labour market for health professionals could become so great that he will shape the workforce in the health and care sector as a whole. Today, unskilled people make up about one third of the annual work of municipal care services. And it increases the need for personnel with relevant vocational training throughout the projection period, and especially after 2020, may result in services having to add a significant number of unskilled people to cover the gap. In addition, the demand for staff with higher education, specialised nurses and caregivers may increase. The mismatch between the number of health professionals being emanated and the future needs of the labour market has several reasons: Disability, specific between Vg2 and Vg3/training in the enterprise transition to Vg3 build-up to general study competence decrease in the number of adults starting training Up until now, the adults have been 80 pst. of the recruitment of the profession. The most important thing we can do to ensure recruitment is to work continuously to ensure that health professionals have good pay and working conditions and that there is room for this profession – in hospitals, in the municipality and in the private sector. In case of hospital: every fourth health professional position has disappeared from Norwegian hospitals in five years, according to a national health and hospital plan statistics. It's alarming. The central party believes that health authorities and both political and administrative leadership must show respect and recognition to the professional group and must secure the positions. The development of a modern and sustainable health system in the future depends entirely on the recruitment of this profession, which is closest to the patient. Health professionals have basic theoretical knowledge of the structure and function of the body, and they have knowledge of social subjects, prevention of health work, nutrition, hygiene and first aid. Without health professionals, the unskilled will have to help patients with everyday activities – hygiene, changing clothes, meal, treatment and care for their loved ones. The health professional’s professional knowledge of observing and disseminating symptoms is decisive and also important for the quality and patient safety of health services. So health professionals are a health profession that Health Norway must have. Everyone is talking about raising the status of the trade union workers and ensuring that the country has good trade union workers, but then it is a paradox that they are not valued by having a job with a degree in the health and care sector. Lack of regular work can lead to fewer people taking their professional letters. So the Central Party supports the whole heart up on the proposals that are being made today. I was also so lucky to be the one Centerpart-representative – together with a lot of great Labour Party-representatives – who was the proposer, so I thank you for that. So here we are quite a few. Good career paths are important, and there has been a lot of writing about in the settings. The centre party is also very concerned that one can have a further career path – with Y-roads, with TAF provision and that one can become a nurse – but we think that the setting is too marked by the fact that the most important thing about health professionals is that they can and should become nurses. Then it's gone too far. We need to recruit health professionals to be health professionals, and we need to show greater respect for the work actually done among those who are closest to the patient. And not least, we need to ensure that health professionals, after education, are provided with whole settings and a wage to live off.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2215	I will first take up two of our suggestions, so I don't get caught up in it afterwards. I would like to mention the proposal No. 3 and 4. But because of an incurrence, I want to draw proposal No. 5, because it's identical to one of the Romantic proposals. The thing we're discussing today is a bit of a bigger challenge, a bigger problem. Today it stays relatively constant: 26 pst. of those working in the health and care services do not have a health professional background. This is a highly female-dominated profession. If you look at the large numbers, 85 pst is. of those working in municipalities, women. There are in many ways women who keep up the proud welfare state that we have. In the state, the part is a little bit smaller: about 70 pst. of those who work in the state are women. Looking at the health and care sectors, the imbalance between women and men is extremely uneven. We want major recruitment problems in the future, which is well done for in several of the posts here. We just have a recruitment problem. We have to do something, unless we're not responsible politicians. But then we might have to look at what the problem is. I would say that the proposal we are dealing with today, which is very good, addresses one of the problems: apprenticeships, the possibility of professional development, education that is not perceived as a blind road – that is, that one introduces a Y-way for this field too – good training, etc. The second dimension that has been drawn out by the same groups is that there must be good professional frameworks, simply that there are enough people at work, that one is allowed to use his profession and his skills, and that not a stopwatch is chasing one through the working day. For this purpose, SV has during this period, for example: to propose a standard of staffing for hospitals and home help, as one way to meet this challenge, based on what I think is the professional level of the number of people there must be at work, so that people can simply provide good services to the sick and the old. The third dimension, which is kind of an elephant in the room immediately starts talking about recruiting these jobs, is pay. A perspective: When we discuss the introduction of the Y path for this field and draw the comparison of engineers, it's striking that the comparison with the engineers stops there. Engineers have the same length of education, but tend on average significantly more than nurses. Even in municipalities, where there are community nurses and municipal engineers, the same gap is as large as in the large numbers. We know about the like-like gap: On average, 1 in the women-dominated jobs is 15 pst. less than in the man-dominated professions, with an equal amount of education, experience and responsibility. It's not going to get away from the fact that this distinction is what's really the difference when it comes to increasing recruitment to these jobs. Following an investigation by Norsk Nursing Association yet another one with a ranking of what determines whether a person continues in the profession or not. First of all, the possibility of exercising the profession. It was the most important thing. Second place: pay. Third place: professional development. This was an investigation that was carried out for all health workers at the hospital and at home, including health professionals, unskilled and nurses. It's kind of a hierarchy for us, so we can try to do a lot with the education systems and opportunities for further education, but we never get beyond the more basic aspects of working in the health sector: it's about getting permission and having the opportunity to work with people without having the stopwatch hanging over them, and having a salary to live off. It's worth pointing out that the government's policy is challenging all of these points. It increases the problem, and it weakens the welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2235	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2240	Like the proposers, I am committed to facilitating access to health professionals, which is an important group of health and care professionals. We are facing increasing and changing personnel and competence needs. Competence 2020 is the Government's plan for recruitment, competence and professional development of municipal health and care services. Here health professionals are a very important group. Health professionals are also required in the specialist healthcare service, but the need has been much lower in hospitals as a result of shorter bedtime, increased use of day care and outpatient care, and higher requirements for specialised competence. Proposals propose the development of a strategy and action plan to increase the number of health professionals. The actions shall focus on recruitment, skills and apprenticeships, contribute to full-time jobs and make the subject an attractive career path. The proposals point to a number of important elements in order to ensure good access to, maintain and develop health professionals. Health and care services are constantly developing and changing, and we need to use human resources in a more appropriate and better way. I believe that we need to build on the overall work being done and actions being undertaken, rather than drawing up our own analyses and action plans for each staff group, as proposed by the representatives here. The government has launched several actions for better recruitment, skills and apprenticeships for health professionals. Funds have been allocated for a new recruitment measure, training is given for unskilled workers to lead to professional letters and authorisation as healthcare professionals, and skills and innovation grants are provided for the initial, further and subsequent training of health care staff. The use of part-time jobs has been reduced in all health regions in recent years, and this is a positive development. In the community health service, questions about full-time jobs are primarily, of course, a topic also for municipalities and social partners. However, both the authorities and the employees’ and employers’ organisations agree that a part-time problem should be brought to life, but unfortunately there is a great deal of variation between municipalities in the way a job is done. Competence level 2020 provides incentives to establish professional language training for health workers. Furthermore, successful language examination is required for those with training from outside the EEA/EU territory applying for Norwegian authorisation. However, I stress that the employer is ultimately responsible for the fact that the employees are so well-managed in Norway that they can perform their duties properly, and it is important that we do not pulverise that responsibility. The Committee would like to see more measures to recruit men for the health and care professions, and I would like to assess this in an appropriate way. But I want to refer to the scheme Men in Health, which the government has prioritised expanding to include larger and larger parts of the country, and which yields very good results. As you know, the Ministry of Knowledge is responsible for the training of health professionals themselves, and several elements of the proposal are covered by them. This applies, inter alia, to: proposals for measures to ensure that education and training are relevant and professionally up-to-date and proposals for career paths. Of course, our two departments cooperate on these kinds of issues, but the responsibility is clearly placed. Let me briefly mention that the government on the basis of the Report. St. 16 for 2015–2016, from outreach to a new chance, will take action to ensure coordinated efforts for adult learning. The Ministry of Knowledge is working on renewing the structure of supply in the professional field. This includes, inter alia: the professional and migrant letters are to be adapted to the needs of professional workers. It is also positive that the health and education programme has contributed to the increase in apprenticeships in recent years. In order to create the patient’s healthcare, we need to have an overall approach to healthcare. I believe that the overall work done in the field, and actions that are in progress, enable us to better meet future needs in health care services, including in the case of health professionals. I take note of the Committee's proposal to the majority of the Grand Duchy to ask the government to introduce an alternative model scheme for the Y-route of engineering training to ensure that health professionals without general study competence can train themselves as nurses. The decision will be followed up by the Minister of Knowledge, who is responsible for education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2265	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2270	Almost all issues of competence have posed a challenge for good interaction between the education sector and the health sector. When we see that there are many young people starting in this area and there are abuses in use in municipalities and in cooperation, it is good that health professionals also have competence in relation to specialist health services. The drop-out is big, it's been the whole time, and we have a big share, a little bit in hospitals, but most in primary health care, without formal competence. The Minister comes from a state that has been good at organising the higher education in the field of health. Is it not important that we take that social responsibility and put in place a structure that allows us to avoid so many young people falling outside, and that we get even more recruited into the health sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2275	I fully agree that it is very good for us to recruit more people, and it is important to ensure that we use health education and emphasise it as an important education for health care in the future. It's a forward-looking education. We have a challenge of failure in this education. That's something it's working on. And we have challenges to make sure that those who start this vocational education get an apprenticeship. That's why it's important, what's done to strengthen the apprenticeship system, to be clear about the requirement that there should be apprenticeships, so that those who start this education know that they get apprenticeships and have a future full-time job when they're going out to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2280	In health, the strong professionals, that's good professionalism, but sometimes it turns out in professional interests that may not benefit the total and for what level we need the skills we need. It was when Rogaland was right-headed, I think, that a good order was put in place where you saw the result of a much better interaction in the relationship between vocational training and the number of places attached to health care. Isn't it offensive, when you're in a position to go in, to think that it's possible to use those experiences from Rogaland? They're from high school, but that's where we have the biggest challenges. Can you think a little bit more nationally to raise a group that is very large, where very many without formal competence could get it, and then re-establish not a large action plan, so simply a strategy that makes us reach our goal faster?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2287	I can say on a general basis that I'm always to be inspired by Rogaland, at least in terms of professional thinking, where a very good job is done. Right-wing representatives have been at the forefront, but there has also been a cross-political community that has raised the professional field. I also feel that one of the experiences that has been very much drawn into the Ministry of Knowledge's work on the Vocational Training will recognize a lot of the elements. I think it's wise that we work on that starting point and don't start making our own plans for each area. We are also working particularly towards health through the efforts we have in continuing training and the ability to have competence in health care, through, among other things. to mark up to $12 billion. kr annually to the municipalities of the type of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2292	One in three patients is undernourished or at risk of malnutrition in Norwegian hospitals. Among the older ones, this part is even higher. Subnutrition is associated with increased illness, longer hospitalisation and higher mortality. It's pretty serious. We know that one in four health professionals has disappeared from Norwegian hospitals for a five-year period. Governments indicated that one of the explanations is a higher requirement for specialised competence. But can the Council agree that more health professionals in hospital posts can help reduce the risk of malnutrition in patients admitted?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2297	I do not know the figures that the representative addresses related to the risk of malnutrition in hospitals. What I am familiar with is that we have good evidence that this patient group – older people – comes to hospitals with clear signs of malnutrition. The lying time in Norwegian hospitals is very short, and that also means that the danger of being undernourished while one is in hospital is relatively small, I think, for most people. However, it is clear that health professionals also have an important role in hospitals, and I have been very clear to the health regions that they have a responsibility for there being apprenticeships also in hospitals, both because they themselves need health professionals, and because they have a social responsibility to help those taking this training get part of their apprenticeship in hospitals. Although many of them will work in the municipality in the future, it is also an advantage to know the hospital when they work in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2302	I am pleased that the Council of State says he sees that there is a need for health professionals also in hospitals. What we know is that there is a need for thousands more in the future. I am uncertain whether the measures we have discussed now are good enough, and we will come back to that with our own proposals, which will be promoted here later in ours. But one of the things the Council of State has argued against, the proposal that now exists to go in and look specifically at the health professionals, which is the group from which we know we need to recruit the most, is that the whole is used as an argument, and that you have to see the appropriateness of the use of all health professionals, I think that's what the Council of State said. It is a good thing, but then you have to have an overall staffing plan that also ensures that those who are nurses don't have to do things that other professionals can do. Does the Council of State see that an entire crew plan is needed to look at this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2307	This is why, through work on the National Health and Hospital Plan, we have also asked health regions to create a planning system in order to be able to look ahead in time on what kind of competence they need. The first version of it was presented in the context of the National Health and Hospital Plan. It is also further developed in order to improve content and cover several professional groups, precisely because it is more likely to be able to plan better in advance of the type of skills it needs in the future — both in terms of disease progression, in terms of the development of the different disciplines, and in terms of population development. It will be an important tool precisely for health businesses and health regions to contribute more to education to the kind of skills they themselves and society need.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2313	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2318	We're going to need thousands of new health professionals in the future, and we're also going to need thousands of other health professionals in the future. Therefore, within a few days, SV will submit proposals that we need to have recruitment standards for these different occupational groups, so that we ensure that we get all the professional groups that are needed, that they with the highest competence in nursing matters, for example. are not used to call for the necessary temporary workers to fill the watch lists, etc., and that the health professional is not least given an important place in hospital, home care and hospitals, because there is an important professional group. Several have been up and talked about the problem of recruitment. I have read the report ‘To become a health professional’ from NIFU and Fafo, and its conclusion is simple: in meeting low pay and status and small positions, a large majority of students jump off before apprenticeship. It's very serious, because this is an important profession, and it's a profession that we need to get many more to apply for. That is why these points are crucial to solving them – that they are paid more and – I would say – the security of their pensions, whether the service is provided by the public, by a private company or by the voluntary sector, so that you do not get a ‘thank you’ to reduce both wages and pensions because some people think it is nice to put this important welfare out of the market. The report also shows that many would like to be nurses and choose this as a way to be. It's probably not that stupid, because you get practice in the meantime. But we have to get a lot more to stay, and we have to recruit pretty tough adults, because I think this is a profession that might be difficult to choose when you're 16-17. That is why I am pleased with the initiatives taken to ensure, inter alia, that: the introduction programme for refugees can now be directly linked to vocational training in the health profession, as proposed by SV in Stortinget. I've greeted guys from Eritrea in Åsnes, who are the most popular health professionals there – so this is a very good match. Before Christmas, SV promoted a proposal on something that we think is absolutely necessary, and that is to increase the apprentice's grant in the municipal sector in addition to what other companies get. It's because the municipalities have only wage costs and not earnings on their apprentices. They can't cancel regular employees to take in apprentices, and they have to have a lot more apprentices if we're to be able to meet the need that we know is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2329	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2345	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2354	There has been an explosive development in the presence of multi-resistant bacteria in the last ten years. In Europe alone, around 25 000 people die every year as a result of resistance. The majority therefore favour the Centre Party in order to focus such an important theme and join in addressing many challenges in the development of antibiotic resistance. The Committee points out that today few people die of serious infections in Norway, and that we have good national preparedness and are well equipped to meet the challenges. At the same time, the Committee points out that national control is not enough, because the world is getting smaller and smaller when we travel more, and resistant bacteria thus have increasingly better conditions for moving. The Committee therefore agrees that resistance is a serious and major global problem that is important for Norway, together with the rest of Europe and the rest of the world, to focus heavily on and actively contribute to reducing the consumption of antibiotics. The proposers promote a total of 17 proposals for action. The majority of the Committee, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, do not support the proposals. This is because, in its letter to the Committee, the Minister of Health provides a complementary and good response to each proposal being promoted, referring to the fact that the government is already implementing a number of important measures to combat the threat posed by antibiotic resistance. The Minister of Health also points out that it is uncertain to what extent individual proposals could mainly contribute to the promotion of existing work against antibiotic resistance. It is suggested that the proposals could lead to increased red tape and have a doubtful value for the joint work already done to combat resistance. Antibiotic resistance is and will be one of the major challenges of healthcare in the future. The government took the threat seriously from day one and now strengthens its work both nationally and internationally through a number of measures. The government has set targets to reduce the use of antibiotics by 30 pst. by 2020. In the summer of 2015, a cross-sectoral approach to antibiotic resistance was launched. The strategy has been followed up by an action plan with targeted responses to health-resistance. In 2016, the government granted additional resources to enable the action plan to be implemented quickly. The funds will continue in 2017. The fight against antibiotic resistance in the agricultural and food sectors was also reinforced by 10 million. kr. There is every reason to be proud that Norwegian agriculture is at the bottom of antibiotic use. It is also positive that new statistics from the Institute of Public Health show a reduction in the use of antibiotics by the population of 13 pst. from 2012 to 2016. This shows that the work done by authorities, doctors, dentists and the population has an effect. An overall committee states: ‘If this trend continues, we can achieve the 30 % reduction in antibiotic consumption in the population by 2020.’ As I said, a lot is happening nationally, but the most important work needs to be done as part of international cooperation. The Health Assembly of the World Health Organisation adopted in 2015 the Global Action Plan of the World Health Organisation in this area. During the UN high-level week of September 2016, Norway played a central role in the preparations for the summit where world leaders discussed antibiotic resistance. Under the mandate of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Norwegian Research Council is also in the process of re-monitoring the Norwegian research effort in this area, as a basis for action to enable several Norwegian researchers to contribute to international research cooperation on antibiotic resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2378	Antibiotic resistance is one of our biggest global health problems. Effective antibiotics are a prerequisite for modern medical treatment. It is estimated that as many as 25 000 people in EU countries and more than 700,000 people worldwide die each year as a result of drug resistance. New antibiotics are barely developed in 30 years. Both nationally and internationally, there is a pressing need to step up efforts. The resistance threat spreads to all countries. The development and dissemination of resistance may be impeded by infectious measures and by the use of adequate antibiotics. Norway has a better starting point since the country has lower antibiotic use and resistance in both humans and animals. We almost don't use antibiotics in the farming industry. New statistics from the Institute of Public Health show a reduction in use of 13 pst. from 2012 to 2016. The target is 30 pst. reduction by 2020. It's a positive development. However, with increased travel activities, as the case-rapporteur was also involved, the risk of people becoming ill abroad and bringing resistant bacteria to Norway as a result of hospital stays abroad increases. It triggers highly costly treatment in Norway in isolates, sometimes for whole families. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that we need to reduce this threat as much as possible and be very restrictive with actively encouraging treatment in foreign hospitals. Therefore, we are surprised that the government prioritises ideological freedom of choice with treatment abroad rather than reducing the risk of increased resistance with the enormous costs it has, both human and economic. Norway has economic and knowledge-based resources and a long tradition of offensive global health policy. It gives us the opportunity, but perhaps also the responsibility, to be involved in taking a lead in the development of new antibiotics. Norway did a good job, which was also discussed by the case-rapporteur, at the UN General Assembly in New York with four specific demands on world health ministers to prevent antibiotic resistance: establish a global framework for responsible use and innovation; introduce an international ban on the use of antibiotics as growth promoters work for a ban on the ability of veterinarians to make profits on antibiotics; establish a global surveillance system against antibiotic resistance; We have reaped a lot of reward for this effort. The Labour Party proposed in its budget increased support for the two centres of expertise: the Antibiotics Centre for Primary Medicine associated with the University of Oslo and the National Antibiotics Service in the Special Health Service added to Health Bergen. The main task of the competence service is to support Norwegian hospitals in the work on responsible antibiotic use and to promote the rational and limited use of antibiotics in primary health care, thereby reducing the development of antibiotic resistance in Norway. The Labour Party has registered that, in its response to the Committee, the Minister for Health will keep assessing the financial framework, but the centres must have the necessary predictability to enable them to follow up the action plan and to think a little longer. During the consultation, the means of evaluating the measures aimed at permanent doctors and nursing homes and the means of training medical care were requested. Training of health professionals, including dental practitioners with foreign education, is currently largely under way. Resources should also be provided to develop and adapt to Norwegian conditions the E-bug international training programme. Then, on behalf of the Workers' Party, I would like to thank the Centre Party for making proposals in due course that resulted in the national target of 30 pst. reduction by 2020, but also because they promote this proposal for a representative and keep up the pressure. Then we have also read carefully the answer from the Minister of Health, and we can see that there is good progress and a lot of positive progress in relation to what was adopted in its time, and the action programme that has been implemented. But it's an area that's dangerous, and it's important that we do what we can to provide both new drugs and to reduce their use. With this, I am promoting the proposals behind the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2412	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2417	Work to combat antibiotic resistance is one of the most important things that health politicians can deal with. Therefore, proposers should be commended for addressing the issue, so that we are all reminded that there are still important challenges we should address in this regard. Fortunately, few people are dying here to land for serious infections today. But even though we're housekeeping well in this area, it's also important to remember that when the world gets smaller, the resistant bacteria never have better conditions to move on. Research shows that the development of antibiotic resistance is closely linked to the increased consumption of antibiotics. Multi-resistant bacteria spread rapidly. The World Health Organization, WHO, clearly states that antibiotic resistance is one of the main threats to world health, food safety and development today. It can affect everyone regardless of age, gender and nationality. An increasing number of infections, e.g. Pulmonary inflammation, tuberculosis and gonorrhea are becoming increasingly difficult to treat as a result of resistance. The fight against resistant bacteria was one of the first Right Party regime to take place after accession in 2013 and a number of important measures are already in progress to combat the threat posed by antibiotic resistance. Therefore, the majority today are in doubt as to whether the proposals put forward in the proposal for a representative will help to promote ongoing work or whether they will lead more to increased red tape and have less value for the work carried out to combat antibiotic resistance, a work that is particularly important because antibiotic resistance is likely to be one of the major challenges of healthcare in the years to come. Therefore, the government has taken the threat seriously and has set the goal of reducing the use of antibiotics by 30 pst. by 2020. In the summer of 2015, the government launched a cross-sectoral approach to antibiotic resistance, and as early as 2016, the government earmarked additional resources for the rapid implementation of the action plan measures. Over the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, 10 million were set aside. NOK for this work, which was quite correct. Today, we have been able to read the news that the EU infectious authorities are warning measures against antibiotic-resistant salmonella bacteria spreading across Europe. Chief researcher Mike Catchpole of the EU Agency for Drugs states: ‘It is particularly worrying that some very common types of salmonella in people show extremely extensive multi-drug resistance. Proper use of antibiotics is extremely important in addressing the challenge of antibiotic resistance.’ A new report from the European Medicines Agency, ECDC, and the European Food Safety Scientific Committee, EFSA, shows that in nearly 30 p.m. of the cases where patients developed diseases due to salmonella infections in 2015, the bacteria were multi-resistant, i.e. resistant to several types of antibiotics at the same time, while the bacterial strain causing food poisoning and typhoid fever was multi-resistant in over 80 pst. of the cases. It is gratifying that we see a decline in the use of antibiotics in Norway, in fact, at a total of 13 pst. from 2012 to 2016. Such a good development makes it possible for us to achieve the goal of 30 pst. reduction in antibiotic consumption in the population by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2439	I would first like to thank you for this important issue on the agenda. It is a challenge both in Norway and internationally that we are destroying a good treatment offer that we have had for many years against both the banal and the more serious infections. More and more patients are hospitalized with resistant bacteria. We have to use the last line's choice and know that this won't work soon. As I said, I work in a small local hospital, and we see more and more cases of both extended resistance and very severe resistance to the bacteria, even in the inner parts of Telemark. The threat is driven by the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics against relatively simple conditions, where the narrower antibiotics should be used, or the body should be self-assessed. These are measures that are not so popular with patients but that will prevent the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Norway has had a good practice, but there is also pressure to get the best and the most effective antibiotics right away. There are also different practices between countries in the choice of broad-based antibiotics and in the veterinary use of antibiotics. It is therefore essential to have international cooperation and contacts so that the objectives can be achieved together. Figures from the Institute of Public Health have been cited several times and show a decline in antibiotic use in Norway — a whole of 13 p.m. from 2012 to 2016. This shows that it benefits and that the work done by the authorities works. Professional personnel, doctors, dentists, and the common man in the street can contribute together in this field. If we continue to do the same, we can have an antibiotic reduction in Norway at 30 pst. Once again, I want to refer to my little hospital, where we have measures, where we have posters, that we are seen in the maps of all antibiotic choices, and that we are always going to report on why we chose some broad spectrum when you could choose something narrow-spectrum – Leila sees you, we have hanging over the desk to remember that we are being seen in the cards, and that works. In 2014, only 8,165 applications from the Nordics wishing to support healthcare abroad were granted. 21 pst. medical and dental care. There were clear warnings from the professional communities – the Institute of Public Health and the Directorate-General for Health – about the introduction of the EU Patient Rights Directive into Norwegian law. They were anxious and worried that increased patient mobility would increase antibiotic resistance, as we have seen. Nevertheless, the majority in the United Kingdom chose to disregard the requirement for prior approval, which means that there is no control over this as one had in the past. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that patients are given the risk of just this before they travel, and that you have to take on the challenges it presents if you come home with a resistant infection and cannot get good treatment for it. At the same time, we will commend the Council of State for the work he has done to strengthen the work against the threat of antibiotic-resistant bacteria, and the threat this poses both nationally and locally. There are several approaches that need to be taken because many travel abroad to treatment that they may not even know the consequences. The government is now launching a cross-sectoral strategy against antibiotic resistance, and together with the Left and Christian People's Party, the action plan earmarked funds for action. This was continued into the current budget. Oslo University Hospital was also commissioned in 2016 to establish national emergency services for medicinal products, so this proposal by the Centre Party is also respected. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I will present the proposals that we are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2456	The representative, Hanne Thürmer, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2461	The Centre Party has made proposals to strengthen international and national efforts to combat antibiotic resistance. In June 2015, the government launched a national strategy against antibiotic resistance, and in January 2016, the Ministry of Health and Welfare presented an action plan against antibiotic resistance in the health service after the Central Party received a majority in a Document 8 proposal in the Stortinget. The aim is to reduce antibiotic use in the population by 30 pst. by the end of 2020. We believe that the strategy and action plan are good, but we see the need to complement the strategy and action plan and to strengthen both national and international efforts to achieve the objective of reducing the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Humans' way of life affects the entire ecosystem, and antibiotics affect microbial ecology. It creates resistance, dysfunction and changes in flora compositions. The threat of resistance spreads to all countries and is the responsibility of all countries. Through better international work, we must consider active antibiotics as a common resource and one must think globally and act locally. The central party believes that the government must make concrete progress towards the driving role of Stortinget Norway in the important international work. The aim must be to contribute to the conclusion of a global antibiotic resource conservation agreement. It is a major challenge that new antibiotics are not developed because they are not ‘remunerated’. We are calling for an international/Nordic strategy for the development of new antibiotics, where drug development is premiered, not sale and use. We also believe that international demands must be made for the production of antibiotics to take place in a way that does not burden the environment, or in itself contributes to the development of resistance. We are also concerned about the preparation of medicinal products in Norway, and we believe that a common strategy for the preparedness of critically important medicinal products, such as antibiotics, must be developed. Then we also have to think about that in the world more people die of lack of antibiotics than of antibiotic resistance. I also want Norway to be a driver of this work, that a sure fair approach to vital drugs and vaccines in the world. The center party wants to have annual status messages for the Storting on antibiotics work, because this is one of our biggest health threats. It is important that the Biggest is informed about the progress and challenges of this work. The Institute of Public Health has proposed its own class of medicines for antibiotics, and it believes that the Centre Party is a good idea. We suggest here that a work be started to introduce a separate e-class for prescriptions on medicinal products with ecological effects. Reduced infection results in reduced antibiotic consumption. The government's plan of action doesn't think we're good enough at infection prevention. High patient coverage in Norwegian hospitals also increases the risk of infections. We propose that a separate action plan be presented for the protection of health and safety at work and that a threshold of 85 pst be introduced. in the case of Norwegian hospitals. Prescription practices of antibiotics must be strengthened. We need more rapid and better diagnostic methods. We also need to be able to reduce the use of antibiotics in medical services and ensure that the guidelines for antibiotic use in hospitals and municipal emergency facilities are implemented. Improving the knowledge of the population and health services about antibiotic resistance is important. In hospitals, it is important to reduce the use of a broad spectrum of drugs. And the lizards that are discovered abroad must be guaranteed a course in defensive Norwegian antibiotic use. Until now, this happens a little bit randomly. Competence centres that we have need to be strengthened financially so that they can do the job that needs to be done to secure knowledge of the health service as a whole. The E-Bug programme, which is aimed at schools, we believe is an important measure that can have a good impact. So the Center Party suggests that patients who benefit from patient treatment abroad outside the Nordic region must be clearly warned against this. There's an arrangement, but it's important to underline. We believe that there must be pre-authorisation requirements for reimbursement of hospital expenses abroad, and we will terminate the scheme to finance health travel abroad where the corresponding treatment can be provided in Norway by the deadline. We also want to focus on and respond to a development with increased use of dental treatment in countries with a high risk of spreading resistant bacteria. So I'm going to deal with the suggestions that the Central Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2491	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2496	In general, SV supports the proposals that have come to this effect in relation to patient travel, research, etc. When it comes to the proposal from the Center Party to introduce a requirement already in the summer that there should be no more than 85 pst. coating in hospitals, we have a lot of understanding about it, but we fear what the consequences of it might be. We already have overcrowded hospitals, too many lie on the corridor, there are also fewer hospitals, and this increases the risk of infection. We're afraid that such a proposal is so far-reaching that people are put on the street, to say it a little bit caricature. This is a very important thing, and there is a broad consensus that we are now in a negative development globally that gets to know the extent of and knows how to solve. There'll simply be more resistance. Many of what we think of today as harmless are suddenly dangerous. And we're not going to travel less, we're going to travel more. As a result, infection protection, prevention and preparedness will become more and more important in the years to come. It's obvious that the big job is at an international level, but when it comes to preparedness, only we and the efforts we make here in the country can apply. So, as I said, SV supports all the proposals that have come up in this matter, except for the proposal on 85 pst. coating.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2506	The government's efforts against antibiotic resistance are under way. International and national efforts to combat antibiotic resistance are significantly strengthened by the initiatives supported by this government. The framework is the national strategy against antibiotic resistance 2015–2020 and two action plans for the health and agriculture sectors. Several departments actively contribute in their fields, both the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, the Ministry of Climate Change and the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The main objective of the strategy is to reduce the total use of antibiotics by 30 pst. and maintain responsible antibiotic use in all sectors, increase knowledge base and be an international driver to counteract antibiotic resistance. We're on our way to the goal. There has been a steady decrease in the use of antibiotics from the peak of 2012 to the present day. If this development continues, we will achieve the goal of 30 pst. reduction by 2020. But we don't settle down, because the last mile is often heavier than the first. Through the Action Plan, we are now implementing 20 concrete actions to help us achieve the objectives. The most important is to make the doctor and dentist able to make good decisions. Whether antibiotics are to be administered and, if so, what antibiotics are to be prescribed. Both the Antibiotics Centre for Primary Medicine and RELIS are making a very important effort here, and both are significantly strengthened through the State budget. I have great expectations for the introduction of an antibiotic management programme, which will help reduce the use of antibiotics in hospitals. Hospitals are particularly concerned with the correct use of antibiotics. Many health establishments have set up such management programmes and all have to have them in place during the year. But it's not just the doctors and dentists who have a responsibility, it's also the people who need to be made aware of. The message is: Only use antibiotics when really necessary. Last year, the Health Directorate received extra funds to run campaigns in the press. The video "The day that antibiotics don't work" is already seen and shared a number of times on social media. We are working actively to introduce diagnostic codes on all antibiotic receptors, with decision support through the EPJ promise, and to shorten the validity of antibiotic receptors. Norway remains a country that is better off than most people in terms of antibiotic resistance, but we have major international challenges, which also spread to Norway. I have stated on several occasions that antibiotic resistance is the climate challenge of healthcare, and it is also my main concern in working on issues related to global health. It is good that last year's high-level UN meeting agreed on a declaration as a basis for further international work, but this work is now in its start-up phase and is about finding the right solutions. Here we work along several axes and in several arenas – through cooperation in the Nordic region, in different contexts in the EU and against multilateral organisations, in particular the UN and the World Health Organisation. In 2017, Norway is also invited to the G20, and we are actively working to increase the involvement of the G20 and OECD in the development of new antibiotics, and we see that this results. Norway is actively participating through the Swedish Institute of Public Health in international cooperation in several important areas. This applies, inter alia, to: the development of innovation models for the development of new antibiotics, the establishment of a global system for the overview of resistance development, under the auspices of the World Health Organisation, and through a work package on antibiotic resistance, in the Global Health Security Agenda, where the Public Health Institute participates in sub-groups on research and development and on responsible use. We have also set up a global initiative, the CEPI, to finance and coordinate the development of vaccines against disease that could lead to epidemics. This will help to reduce infectious threats and antibiotic use, and it is a pleasure that the head office of this establishment will be here in Oslo. I also believe it is important to strengthen Norwegian messages and activities on the environmental aspect of the antibiotic resistance challenge. Together, the Minister for Climate and Environment and I will contribute to raising this issue internationally. The centre party shall have a honeymoon to address an important theme. The solution lies in the implementation of the strategy and the two action plans against antibiotic resistance, which are being carried out too fully, and in the fact that we all feel a common political responsibility to succeed in doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2527	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2532	Global challenges were mentioned, and good work and efforts have been done in the field of vaccination. Does the Council of State see the possibility that, on the part of Norway, a greater initiative can be taken for Nordic cooperation in order to provide better research related to new antibiotics?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2537	This is something that is also discussed at a Nordic level, but the challenges associated with it are so great, both economically and on the regulatory side, that the Nordics can stand together, and that is often done in international contexts. We're probably going to have to bring that kind of solution into larger organizations and with a wider geographical coverage than what the Nordics alone represent. It will be important to do so, among other things. through the OECD, which has good competence to develop different solutions to compensate for market failures, as is actually the case. That is why this was a central theme for me at the OECD Health Minister's meeting in Paris this winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2542	I thank you for your answer. I think it's important that we show that it's possible to cooperate across countries, both to find models and not least capital for research, even if the Nordic countries are small. Then we also record that there is a positive development. I see that Haraldsplatz in Bergen has managed to get his use down, and Health Nord has had his use down. How we will be informed about the follow-up to the Action Plan and how the results and, where appropriate, new initiatives and needs for, for example. increased support for the two centres operating? How will the State Council inform Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2549	The size is informed of the progress of this work through the annual budgetary proposals and, where appropriate, the other issues promoted by the Storting, where it is natural to address them. It's absolutely right that we see variation between hospitals. Now the hospitals are introducing, as I said in my post, management programmes in this area, and they have their own responsibility working on it. That, combined with getting more attention and publicity around the differences, I think is going to get pretty big importance, because everyone wants to be like the ones that are the best in the class.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2554	The Director of the Swedish Public Health Institute, Camilla Stoltenberg, in a chronicle of today's business, addressed this by introducing a class of antibiotics in the same way as one has a class of medicines for addictive medicine, A- and B-drugs. It is called an “E-class” medicine with ecological effects. The question is whether the Council of State is in favour of such a proposal, even if it does not receive a majority in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2559	We are constantly considering good suggestions and input in this area. We also regularly carry out what we call foot-in-side meetings with many of those responsible for our action plan against antibiotic resistance in healthcare, just to follow up on the follow-up, but also to get input and new proposals. So which of these we're going to go further, I can't answer right now, but it's also important to keep your eyes open about whether there are other new good proposals that can come along, as well as those that are already in the action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2564	It wasn't a no, so that was good. When it comes to the foot-in-the-ground meeting, I know that the Dental Association has been active in this work against the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria, and then the problem is that many people benefit from dental treatment in countries with high resistance development. The problem is that part of these dental services are not publicly funded in Norway, and one can save a lot of money. There's a difference between that and other patient care, and it's harder to regulate, because it's not publicly funded. So my question is what kind of action the Council of State sees that one can do in that field, because it's a problem for resistance development if one comes back with resistant bacteria, and it's maybe a bigger problem than in other patient trips.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2573	The representative is right about that. What I think is our prime opportunity in that area is simply to provide the population with continuous information about the danger of getting health care in other countries and the risk it is, so that they can take it into their overall assessment, and also encourage general attention in the population about the consequences of antibiotic resistance, as we do now through the population-oriented campaigns. Then the individual will have to make that kind of assessments. We have no opportunity to refuse people to pay for health care in countries other than Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2578	It was a focus program on the production of antibiotics that impressed many. In the production in India, it was well, had no environmental requirements regarding those who work there, and that it came out into the environment around it. Then I think that the council commented on it and was clear that this was not acceptable. At the same time, I see that there is a bit of discussion about how a person in Norway can claim that the medicine a buyer has produced is in a good way environmentally sound. The question is what will the Council of State do to ensure that the purchase of medicinal products in Norway, for example: in hospitals, may set requirements for the most environmentally acceptable production.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2584	The Focus programme also made an impression on me, and I got information through that program that Sweden had introduced different types of requirements than what we had in Norway. Therefore, in the 2017 mission paper, I have asked health regions through their joint procurement in this area to look closely at the experience of Sweden and to work on setting similar environmental requirements in Norway. So is it that we have now allocated extra money to the World Health Organization for the follow-up to the results of the high-level meeting in New York, and there, among other things. part of the money to be spent towards the environmental side. We have also established, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a research collaboration with India on antibiotic resistance, which I hope can also help to develop some of these relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2591	So the line change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2611	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Odd Henriksen on behalf of the Right Party and the Progress Party proposal No 5, by Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Sections 12 to 11 are replaced by the following: § 12-11 Processing of private regulatory proposals Once the proposal for a regulatory plan has been received by the municipality, the municipality shall, as soon as possible and no later than 12 weeks or another period agreed with the proposer, submit the proposal to the hearing and publish it to the public review, deal with it and promote it in accordance with the rules of Sections 12 to 9 and 12 to 10. The municipality should refrain from making proposals that do not comply with the area or area regulation of the municipal plan. It may promote alternative land regulation proposals. If the municipality does not find reason to promote the proposal, the proposer shall be informed by letter within three weeks. The municipality may also stop the further examination of the draft plan after consultation and public oversight have been carried out. The decision of the municipality after the first and second subparagraphs not to submit the proposal at the hearing and to publish it for public consideration, or to promote the draft plan, may not be appealed against, but the proposer may require that it be submitted to the Municipal Council for final decision.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Section 19-1 is replaced by the following: § 19-1 Application for a derogation Dispensation requires a reasoned application. Before a decision is taken, neighbours shall be notified in the manner referred to in sections 21 to 3. However, a specific warning is not necessary when a waiver application is made at the same time as an application for authorisation under Chapter 20 or where the application obviously does not affect the interests of the neighbour. Regional and State authorities whose field of action is directly concerned shall be given the opportunity to comment on national and important regional interests before exemption from plans, planning requirements and the prohibition in Sections 1 to 8 is granted.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Section 19-2, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: No dispensation may be granted if the reasons behind the provision to which it is exempted or the reasons for the purpose of the provision of the law are substantially disregarded. However, where other important societal reasons provide for and specific needs exist, a derogation may be granted. In the event of a derogation, it is necessary to state the reasons for which decisive attention has been given. No derogation may be granted from the rules of procedure. the third and fourth paragraphs are deleted; The current fifth paragraph becomes the third paragraph.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘Section 34-2, fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following: The applicable county plan, municipal plan, including the area part of the municipal plan, the regulatory plan and the urban plan, shall apply until they are amended, repealed, replaced or set aside by a new plan under this law. This also applies to plans in the 100 metre belt along the sea, even if they do not have the building limit, see. § 1-8, third paragraph. The prohibition in the second paragraph of Sections 1 to 8 does not apply to such plans.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2701	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 33-1, first paragraph, the first subparagraph shall be replaced by the following: the Local Council may itself prescribe a fee to the Municipality for the examination of the application for authorisation, the drawing up of maps and certificates and for other work required by this Act or Regulation to be carried out by the Municipality, including the examination of private planning proposals. The fee for examining such draft plans may cover the work of the municipality until a decision is taken as to whether to promote the proposal. § 12-11.’ The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2869	First of all, there is a vote on the Committee's suspension to the first paragraph of Section 21-7 and the fifth paragraph of Section 21-7. The Left, Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2883	The other parts of I, except for the first paragraph of Section 33-1, are then voted off because of the fact that proposal No. 5 was passed, as well as II.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2893	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2903	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2930	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 2-4, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-4, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government in the revised budget for 2017 to submit a revised proposal for the biofuel recovery plan, which ensures that Norway does not pursue a policy that stimulates the consumption of biofuels with very uncertain or negative climate benefits.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a methodology to be developed to take account of the carbon debt issue when calculating the climate impact of biofuels.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that a plan is drawn up which includes a need hierarchy that ensures that available bio-resources are used in such a way as to maximise climate change.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2966	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that all biofuels traded in Norway are subject to EU sustainability criteria from 1 July 2017.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e2997	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. Two and three. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking it to intensify its efforts to reduce the proportion of temporary jobs for scientific staff and, in cooperation with the institutions, to draw up proposals on how, individually and collectively, they can counteract the negative effects of performance indicators that put pressure on institutions and individual researchers, which may hamper good research ethics’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to clarify the Ministry of Knowledge's responsibility to ensure good conditions for research ethics practices and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner». The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3023	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: the second paragraph of Section 5 is replaced by the following: Research institutions shall ensure that research at the institution is carried out in accordance with recognised research ethics standards. The institution shall be responsible for: the training of candidates and staff in recognised research ethics standards; that all those carrying out or participating in the research are familiar with recognised research ethics standards; and building and maintaining a strong research ethics culture.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3046	The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3060	President! I voted wrong. I had to vote in favour, but I voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3065	There are several people who have voted incorrectly, so we will take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3245	The rapporteur stated in the debate that there was a typographical error in the vote and that the reference in the vote should be to Law 1 April 2005 No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3255	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3266	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3275	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Christian Thinning Bjørnø on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Anders Tyvand on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Ivar Odnes on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a model of teacher resource standards at school and municipality level, respectively, for an average group size not exceeding 16 students between 1 and 4. steps and 24 students aged 5 to 10. Steps in normal hours.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3302	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a standard for teacher density in ordinary school-level education.’ [[group size 2]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a model for the introduction of a standard of teacher’s density which ensures, over a maximum of 4 years, that the average school-level group size does not exceed 15 students in the 1st to 4th year. steps and 20 students aged 5 to 10. stage of ordinary education.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3330	Did not the representatives vote? But in the whole world, what are you doing? [[Laughter]] Then we take the vote again, and then no one is looking at the World Cup skiing!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3344	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals on how a national provision for teacher's density in primary school can be introduced at school or municipality level.’ The Greens have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3376	The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3416	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Anders Tyvand on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Ivar Odnes on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks that candidates with a minimum of 35 school credits, a grade of 3 in Norwegian and a grade of 3 in secondary mathematics can be invited to take a recording interview and qualify for admission to teacher training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3440	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to remove the fourth requirement in mathematics for admission to elementary school teacher education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3455	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government, in cooperation with the education sector, to assess other and more appropriate admission requirements than current entry requirements for primary school teacher training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3480	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3496	Then we cancel that vote and take it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3536	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Torgeira Mikalsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposal No 3, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider introducing a fully funded school meal at one grade in high school at the start of the school in 2018.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3562	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals on the gradual introduction of a single school meal for all ages, financed by the Ministry of Health and Health and justified as a public health measure. Different options for financing, organising and equipping the school meal have to be identified.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to launch a project with 50 municipalities that themselves want to try out different forms of school meal, preferably organised as a cooperation between the state and the municipality.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3603	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, the proposals No 3 and 4, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish arrangements to ensure that apprentices in health care receive professionally sound guidance and follow-up’. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3629	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that health professionals in municipal health services and health businesses are usually employed in full-time jobs.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3646	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an analysis of the role and position of healthcare professionals in the health service of the future, both in the community and health services, and to present a strategy based on this. The strategy should include an action plan and include issues related to how: ensure good recruitment, the necessary competence and the adequate number of apprenticeships in the health profession; make health professionals an attractive career path, including for those taking re-election or career choices at an adult age; ensure relevant and up-to-date training; and contribute to the provision of full-time jobs to newly trained and experienced health professionals.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take action to increase Norwegian health professionals’ knowledge with poor language understanding.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3714	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 4-11, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 12-17, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government, as part of the protection against infectious diseases, is appropriately asked to introduce an upper occupancy limit of 85 per cent in hospitals in order to reduce hospital infections and unnecessary antibiotic use by June 2017.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3741	The proposals are then put to the vote. 12, 14, 16 and 17 of the Center Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘By June 2017, the government is asked to promote its own action plan on infectious diseases in order to reduce infections in the healthcare system and to minimise the need for antibiotics.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government by June 2017 to submit proposals to the Storting to terminate the scheme to finance health travel abroad in cases where similar treatment can be provided within a time limit and in a sound manner in Norway.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit annual status reports to the Storting on the global and national work against antibiotic resistance development and prevalence of antibiotic resistance in Norway.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a contingency plan for critical medicinal products, including critically important antibiotics, in which increased Nordic cooperation and use of national preparedness stocks are assessed.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3775	There is a vote on proposal No. 15th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘By June 2017, the government is asked to submit an economic escalation plan for the antibiotic resistance prevention work to achieve the 30 per cent target of a reduction in antibiotic use by the end of 2020.’» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3794	President! I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3799	President! Me too!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3804	In that case, the votes 83 against and 11 votes in favour of the proposal of the Central Party are rejected. The proposals are then put to the vote. 4-11, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that training in the right use of antibiotics is given priority in the course of education and in the provision of further and further training. ASP must have resources to carry out systematic training in Norwegian antibiotic practice among Norwegian medical students abroad.’ [[The Antibiotic Centre for Primary Medicine]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the ASP is provided with resources to develop and provide all schools with the e-Bug training programme, in order to help children and young people gain an increased understanding and knowledge of antibiotic resistance.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to put forward an appropriate response, and by June 2017, to the driving role of Stortinget Norway in international efforts to prevent the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria and to work towards the conclusion of international commitments on a global resource conservation agreement for antibiotics.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government is asked to develop a strategy for the development of new, active antibiotics, including new economic models that promote drug development, not sales and use, where both reward mechanisms and tax/tax are considered as an instrument.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests the appropriate introduction of its own class of antibiotics, an E-class of prescriptions for medicinal products with ecological effects, which must be subject to specific restrictions of use and follow-up responsibilities.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote, in an appropriate manner, measures to ensure the rapid development of rapid testing and diagnostic methods and a plan for the rapid implementation of digital decision support systems in the specialist health service by June 2017.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a package of measures to reduce the prescription of antibiotics in medical care by June 2017, and to ensure that the guidelines on antibiotic use in hospitals and municipal emergency daily places are implemented in the services.’ [[KAD]] Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the procurement of antibiotics used in Norway prioritises medicinal products from environmentally friendly production that prevent the development of resistance.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3862	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-3, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that patients who consider using non-North healthcare providers are clearly warned about the risk of infection with antibiotic-resistant bacteria as a matter of urgency.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «By June 2017, the Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget to require prior authorisation for reimbursement of hospital treatment expenses abroad [[(see section 4.4). Patient Rights Directive)]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by June 2017 to promote measures to prevent the development of increased use of patient treatment, including dental treatment, in countries with a high risk of spreading resistant bacteria.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-23.ana.ud154e3939	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
