ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we begin, I must say that the 2nd and 3 points have been left for another purpose, and that 32 and Mrs. To say this, the first point in the subject list: "Provided by the same intention as the parliamentary teams, the creation of the integrated enpresence protocols in the crisis. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Casanova, you represent the EH team, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u1	Good morning, everyone. First of all, I wish you all a happy, Basque Day. A few months ago, a clerk from La Naval told me that he was a member of the Forms, he told me when he entered La Naval, that his friends, his family, said to him: "Where are you going? This company is closing up right now. You'll be unemployed again." He told me that three or four years ago, and he went into the firm in 1980. The company seemed about to close up, but then he made a 40-year-old career. And in those 40 years, employment and wealth were founded. That was possible at certain times because it was a bet on that company. And it's true that today-perhaps this company is at the end of its course, but let's remember that after 40 years of absence, as a result of so many helps, the company went on creating wealth and employment. La Naval, today, is the critical situation that we've already encountered, but other companies have had a happier career. For instance, the Danobat case comes to my mind. During 1992-1994, Danabat nearly closed up. He was a potent company of machinery, and he had nearly closed it, and some had won for that company, either from within or from without, and now he is a leader in the world, he is competitive, and he continues to create employment and wealth. Irzar: Another company we all know. In 1991, it was almost closed, in the technical kibra. There was a bet to get ahead of the company, and today he has over 3,000 jobs, and every year the bill is over 700 million dollars. What do I mean by that? Some companies, even if they're in a complicated situation, have a future. They don't have all the companies in a complicated situation, and we have to admit that sometimes, in some cases, there's not much to do. But we have to try, in all cases, to get ahead, because not all companies in a difficult situation are doomed to close. We must fight, and we must try to apply the principle of attraction-that is to say, until the opposite is demonstrated, all companies have the ability to advance. If we talk about the corporations who are at this moment in crisis, we all have names to think about. Alestes, ITP, Aternova, Tubacex... Many names, and unfortunately, for the following few months, more names will be added to this list, for the time is severe to us. We're in hard times at the socioconomical level and in other grades, but it's not the times that are going to be tender. A few companies, still, although the word fashionable has been resilient, are in an uphill, resistable, but with great difficulty. And it may happen in the near future that these difficulties become really a deeper problem. We were already in 2019, in a deceration cycle. In the state class, it's not expected to recover until 2023 to the level of the raw internal procedure that was in 2019. And already, several companies have announced that they have the will to do mass releases. When the shelter of the ERTE disappears, mass releases can be previewed. And let us remember that at this moment they are exposed to almost 40,000 eucalyptic ERESTE. To face the problems we now have, and those corporate problems we're going to have in our immediate future, we need, from the government, a specific protocol that guarantees provocative behavior, an integral protocol, to guarantee that active attitude. That's what we came for today. Because the closures or mass releases of a company are not just a private matter. It is true that the possession of corporations may be private, but to go to 100 people's streets, it is no longer a private matter; it is a collective problem in society, in areas, at a moment when it has a serious impact on the districts. And to deal with this problem, it's essential that the government doesn't continue to play the viewer or, in other words, play the ostrich. Even if it's private business, as long as there's a public problem, it's got to be active. In these crisis, it must not be a mere spectator, but an actor and a protagonist. And, to fill up that paper, he needs a script that we're proposing today: an integral protocol, to respond to the repressions in the crisis. Companies can have different origins. There could be problems in financial matters, a product-level problem, a problem with productive process, a market business, economic cycles, a sector, and a whole economy. They may be of several kinds of problems and origins, so the answers must also be multiple. In the presence of a case, or in the presence of each case, or in the presence of each case, a reply must be proposed. Hence the government ought to have a panoplia, to apply different instruments to different situations. Sometimes a company will need a new industrial plan, sometimes its support in financial matters, sometimes by means of revolution, or by other instruments. In some cases, it may be necessary to make a new investment, to make a new investment, to make a wager of research and development, or to seek an incluso, a buyer, to re-start the company with another investor. In front of that, the government and the funk should have a paper, and it has to be helpful, it has to be a companion to find a solution to all the other operators in the company. There are several kinds of crisis. I have mentioned several reasons, but it is plain that at this moment, in the world level, there is a very special situation, or a very unusual kind of crisis, created by COVID-19. It has happened at a very few moments that such an open and general problem has occurred. The economy of the whole world is affected, the activity, the activity, the activity, which has been incestified in all countries, and in almost every economic sector, is sometimes too thin with the greater weight or strength of the area, but the impact has been universal. And as the crisis is so unusual and so general, we find that some of the modern measures are also forming; and, incluso, those who have hitherto hitherto been zealous defenders of the nedifical paradigm, have begun to admit before this crisis, that at the special characters which it possesses, even the measures which had hitherto been cut or forbidden, are to be taken, if we do not wish to see a general close of the enpresias. And I'm talking, for instance, about the ransom authorization. In the European Union, hitherto, there were very strict limits to aid the corporations at the crisis in the radians, but from the unusualness of this crisis, the European Union has not only accepted, but it has urged the States to stake for the strategic corporations, and with certain conditions of economic rescue. For a few months, with everything you want... But the rescues, as far as we are concerned, are legitimate, by the consent of the European Union, and by the influence of the European Union. And the States, of course, have taken advantage of this opportunity, because they appreciate their corporations, because they know that they have a strategic character. Germany, for example, has activated the fund of 100,000 million for rescue, just to rescue corporations. In addition to this, he's made a much wider economic planning, to respond in an integrated manner to the social consequences of the crisis, but only to rescue the corporations, he's placed 100,000 million on the table. And these 100,000 million are already using it. The known Lufthansa company has requested 9,000 million. And the TUI companies that's from the tourist field, 3,000. As you can see, it's very big and very tiniest. The Spanish state has also installed its own foundation, and it is inferior, because the economic capacity of the state is lower, but it has placed 10,000 million on the table to rescue corporations. And already, more than 7% of the funds have been used. That means the States made a bet. (?These are not practical bets; there are practical funds, and they are in use, but they want to send a message to society and to the business world by the abolition of these funds: "The state is here, if you need us, we'll be here." And the States will fight to maintain the practice of corporations. That's what we're asking for here. a complete protocol, and, in order to make rescues within this integral protocol, the fund of 200 million euros. Our proposal is also modest, compared with the economic effort other states have made. You'll remember: 100,000 millions of Germany, 10,000 million Spanish States. Ours isn't just the proportional application to our economic capabilities, our budget, our raw internal procedure, but it's even lower because we're not a state. But yet we believe that this signal must be sent to society and to the business world: That we won't let down companies that might be useful. We'll put every resource on the table: political, jurist, and economics, to defend the future of our enpresies. In the Aeronautic sector, there is a serious crisis, which, perhaps, may prove a more active public intervention, even economic. For this purpose, it would be applicable. The Moors, in the midst of the whole transformative crisis of auto-ration, are in a peculiarly complicated state, and probably there must be necessity. There are other sectors, especially cyclic, which are at the moment evil: steelwork, pipes... And, well, in other sectors, there are blackmailes too, and all of a sudden, a big company is sending alarm signals. That's why we have to be prepared. And knowing how hard this government is to do things that it says afterwards, we are still waiting for the real activation of the substance, when it is fixed, we think that we must already have legal and economic tools prepared to be used as soon as necessary. But, as I was saying, protocol is not limited to the production of a ransom. Protocol must be integral, but a protocol designed after talking to society and economic sector has been spoken to must also be a result of the consequences and agreements of the talks of departments, and we can often know what business will be in the near future, if economic signals are well read. And, well, what we're asking is that you spend a constant appeal to our economics and our productive sectors in a way of preventive, in order to detect possible crisis and take premature measures. We already think that, when the crisis is on the table, in an important company, it could be a work of plug-in, a conversation between the sides and all the sides, and also a way to help you put the proposals on the table. To fire a hundred people or to fire 200 people, or to close up a company, I repeat, "Tan isn't a private matter; it affects the whole society, and then, well, it's time for fun to respond. Even when the shutters are closed, we must wager for the recalculation and recalculation of the workers. If we need to get in the capital, the government has to have capital access tools and economic resources. A social system of management must be pushed into those companies where they rescue public money. In some cases, it's also important to give the workers protagonism, and if they're conditions for this because they're here to put them in the capital of the firm, or get control of the company. And that's why we're asking you to prepare legal advice and economic aid. And we're also asking for help subsidizing all the reports and reports that the workers make in the defence of the company. We're saying it over and over in our economy. What happens in manufactures does not only affect the people or corporations that move in the industrial world, but the whole society, because industry is the tractor of our society. We've been sterilized for a few years, manufactures don't grow. In the last few years after the collapse in 2008, even if it's economic growth, the industry is insured. We can't afford to have great losses in the permitutation industry in this crisis, because of the people present, and also because of the benefits which industry brings to the whole society: By means of taxes, by solitaries, by external trades, etc., etc., etc. If it's the strategic industry, let's defend it; let's defend it with an integral protocol, in order to respond to the troops in the crisis, and even if it's the case, producing a fund for economic contributions, producing a ransom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u2	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over the teams that were running the corrections, representing the Basque Popular Group-Ciudados. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, it is obvious and I do not think it is questionable that the health crisis has caused a serious economic crisis, which is causing the closure of many companies of all sizes, with the consequences that these closures have on employment. This is a reality that I do not think we can discuss, that we have found many times in this scenario, and I think it is clear. And this particular situation is that it forces us to reproduce here today an old debate on the role of private enterprise in today's society and the role of government in the economy. That is why, following the non-legislative proposal we are debating today, perhaps we should start by remembering that the business closures that have occurred and those that will undoubtedly occur in the future, because the business markets, the markets – point – are alive and changing, are not the result of intrinsic evil or of the insatiable desire for the benefits of entrepreneurs, but, in some cases, the result of the economic crisis caused by the health crisis. But under the proposal that we are debating today there is a very peculiar system of beliefs, but very well known for many years: the belief that companies, when they close, do it or to make more money or to annoy someone; the belief that entrepreneurs are an enemy to be closely monitored, with some exceptions, but in general; the belief that private initiative is always suspected of wanting to make money – flagrant delito –; that the best economic model is based on the public, on capital and on public management; the belief that the Administration has to intervene in the management of private companies, because the only good companies, therefore, seem to be cooperatives; and that companies, for some reason that I do not know, are not able to manage themselves on their own account, I suppose that because of their natural incompetence, because of their intrinsic malice, as I said before, or because of their irreparable tendency to self-destruct, and that companies, for some reason I do not know, are not able to manage themselves on their own, because of their natural incompetence, because of their intrinsic mality, as I would say before, or because of their irreparable tendency to self-destruct themselves. This system of irrational beliefs responds to a conception of the old, outdated and obsolete economy, which necessarily leads to the reduction of entrepreneurship and therefore of employment; to the over-dimension of public administration and expenditure; and to the stateization of the economy, to the intervention of private enterprises, of their capital, of their management, as follows from the amendment of the group associated with the proposing group. Faced with this system of obsolete beliefs, we recommend simply looking around with open eyes and seeing how the business reality is and how it is the economic reality in which we all move every day, and what we will see are not only large multinationals or risk capital groups, which, apparently, should not be the liking of the proposing group, but a multitude of small and medium-sized enterprises that are the basis of our economy, created by citizens who, using their freedom, have decided to risk and push a project that, if it goes well, will give work, wealth for the country and, of course, benefits for them, and that, if it does not go well, they will lose their assets, their work and their illusion. And we all know the entrepreneurial capacity of our Basque society, which has undoubtedly been the engine of our development: the family that decided to put a small workshop in Eibar, the unemployed who decided to take risks with a bakery or a taxi, or the professional who launched himself into the adventure of selling our products abroad. They are, with names and surnames, the ones that are at the base of many of the companies mentioned in the proposal today; the same ones that were persecuted and killed by ETA; those that, working hard, in some cases raised large companies in which our parents or grandparents have worked. Those are the entrepreneurs we really have. These entrepreneurs, today, from here, I think they deserve all our recognition, and in a situation like the current one, especially because they are having a bad time, and they deserve and need our support and they do not need our guardianship or our distrust at all. The reality is that today we live in an environment of continuous and accelerated change. Crisis like that of the covid – but there has been another: the previous economic crisis – and others that will come in the future, these crises do nothing but accelerate the natural changes of the markets and the natural changes of society and the natural changes of the world. The world is on the other hand continuing, a rapid change, which means that it is getting faster and faster, and the health crisis has indeed accentuated that change. Well, it is clear that the covid pandemic is causing changes at the local, national and international levels, and many of these changes are going to become stable; they are not cyclical. In that sense, we can distinguish between three types of clearly different situations. We have companies that are competitive, that were competitive before the crisis, whose market has not been substantially affected by the covid crisis, and that are therefore expected, when the crisis passes, to be again competitive, and that, at best, they only need aid, such as ERTE or those that are already in operation, to adapt temporarily. They are companies that have a competitive design and adapted to their market, which – I repeat – has not had any substantial changes. But there are other companies, competitive also before, but whose markets have now radically changed with changes that are going to be stable, that is, they are going to stay for sure forever. And these companies must be reduced, they must be resized, they must adapt to the new market; we can, in fact, sustain them with public aid for a few more years, but this is a desire to prolong the agony and to spend money. And then we also have the case of companies that were not competitive before, that were already in trouble, because they had certainly not been able to adjust, to adapt to their markets, and that, well, then, the pandemic, the economic crisis has done nothing but give them the dot, and that, therefore, they will die irrefutablely. Finally, as in all crises, many companies will be forced to restructure and decrease their size, some temporarily and others permanently. All, surely, will have to make changes in their strategy or in their designs to adapt their level of competitiveness, but let us remember that the first interested in the survival of a company is the one that mounts it, it is the one that has organized it; it is the first interested in its growth and maintenance of the company, and the reality is that no one better than companies knows how to be managed, better than no government advisor, among other things because those who play the dough and those who live in it are them. Therefore, in this situation, what is the role of the Government? Man, what we sure think you shouldn't do is stick your nose in a company that's not yours and decide what shareholders should do with the money and the company they created. The role of the Government is to encourage consumption and create a regulatory framework to boost economic activity, ensure free competition and social protection for the workers concerned. Only in exceptional situations – quite exceptional, I would say – is it justified for a government to take part in a property – I believe, moreover, that it is so established – and, on the contrary, it must safeguard its role as a natural arbiter, guarantor of public interests and of the rules of competition, which does not remove, by one mechanism or another, a system of monitoring how the business system is evolving in one area, in one country; that we are above what is happening to detect prematurely the natural movements that occur, that affect, in the end, always affecting public interests – and that, therefore, must be foreseen – and that enables social protection mechanisms to be put in place with the necessary attention. But, of course, the role of the Government is not, as they say, to ensure the survival of companies, because the survival of a company only guarantees it by the market, its market, which is a living and changing reality, to which the company must continuously adapt. And one of the adaptations that must be made – I repeat – is to reduce, resize its size when necessary, among other things as health management, that is, to ensure the continuity of the rest of the jobs as long as possible. In conclusion, therefore, at this time of serious economic crisis, I believe that we must help companies to maintain and generate employment, discriminating very well about what is the situation of each and what is the situation of their crisis. We must help them to adapt, to resize if necessary, knowing that it is the market that is changing and that we have to create an attractive environment for them, because without that we will not generate wealth in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u4	Thank you, Mr. Gil. We represent the Podemos-IU team together. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u5	Good morning, congressmen. Mr. Casanova, we agree. You know, it's supposed to be a piece of EukMMY thing to do to get out of the company's company and avoid the loss of a hundred companies, especially in the industrial studios. And that, in our view, requires a follow-up, a planning and a policy of decisive intervention in the economy. Obviously, you know, Mr. Gil Vegas, that we do not agree with your exhibition, but there is one thing that I believe I once said to you – and to me it is important – that some ideological conceptions consider that companies, when they fire, do so because of an intrinsic evil of entrepreneurs or business owners, that is not something that the left says; that is something that the right puts in the mouth of the left constantly. Because what we say is that they act certain interests, and we do not make a moral assessment about evil or goodness, but about how concrete interests operate, because the market is not self-regulating only, because the owners design strategies, because the big groups design strategies, because they intervene in the market. And employment is a right; employment is a constitutional right in this country. And, therefore, from the public authorities, yes, we think that we have to intervene in the defence of employment. It is true that certain regulations and legislation – some from the European Union – limit part of this possible action. But it is no less true, in our view, that the policy of the Basque Government, like that of other environmental governments, has never been to take advantage of the real capacity of public intervention in the economy in favour of the general interest. The policy of the Basque Government, in our view, understands the decisions and the future of the companies, so, somewhat in line with what Mr Gil has expressed, despite the fact that he devotes millions of euros of public money, through different public and semi-public programmes and funds, to the business fabric. The policy of the Basque Government, in this sense, could be summed up, in our view, in "resources, yes, but intervention, no". There is not even a policy of real conditioning of public aid and resources reaching companies – conditioning employment, I mean. The indignation of the workers, who often ask explanations from the Basque Government about public money intended for their company, is rightly understood when they are being fired. Every short time we have such an example in this Parliament, not just now with the crisis on our hands. This policy of non-intervention, non-interference in the affairs of companies causes the actions of the Basque Government to arrive late and badly, when a company raises a record of regulation of employment or collective redundancies, or ends up in a competition of creditors. That is why the idea of a protocol seems to us to be positive. Every time we hear the news about redundancies or closures of companies, they are often accompanied, in effect, by the word "crisis", "companies in crisis". Sometimes these crises are real, but it is also true that they are not always real crises and the fact that a company is in a situation that we can call crisis should necessarily lead to the approach of layoffs or closure. In real practice, when we talk about companies in crisis, we know – and especially the workers know it – how the story usually ends: with layoffs. The capitalist business model makes its adjustments, basically, acting on the labor, on the workers. And the reasons do not always correspond to an unquestionable need to ensure the viability of a company. It draws attention, for example, to the fact that companies which have been considered strategic by the Basque Government itself in recent years, which have not had any economic problems, but quite the contrary, and whose economic solvency is not in doubt, are, however, going in the same way as collective redundancies in the face of a situation caused by the pandemic. Some of these companies already mentioned it a few months ago, when from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we brought a non-law proposal that was rejected by the parties that support the government, along with the People's-Citizens Party and Vox. But, after that debate, we have been able to listen to the staff of some of these companies in this Parliament, corroborating, in our opinion, what some groups say. The last one, last Monday: the company committee of Aernnova, showing that the company and the business group have not only made a lot of money in recent years, but also showing that the forecasts were not bad in the medium and long term, and that the viability of the company was not in question. However, there they are in the back for the kick that can leave them on the street in just two weeks with the employment regulation file at their consultation phase. We are therefore talking about collective redundancies which should only be allowed in an extreme and unavoidable case. We know that the labour reform of 2013 thus facilitates the requirements to be able to execute such redundancies that practically gives companies the freedom to reduce their workforce without any economic justification. The situations are diverse – it is true, it has been said – and there are several causes that end up in dismissal approaches and in the face of the possibility of closure of companies. But, on many occasions, we know that the ground has been prepared on the basis of concrete strategies to be able to address and justify regulatory dossiers. Sometimes they are real crises, but not on few occasions they are real crisis drills, well advised, of course, by the best law firms. It is not a question of evil – I repeat –; it is a question of interests. On many occasions, we see how layoffs respond to other types of reasons that have nothing to do with saving companies: from pure and hard relocations to the simple search for the reduction of salary costs, slimming down or sub-contracting staff later, and going through, logically, misdirections or different strategies. Sometimes, it also comes out more profitable to close one company to open another that will do exactly the same, sometimes even with the same operators, which requires planning and engineering to deceive who should control this. And this is done. This happens and is not so exceptional in Euskadi. That is why it is also so important to distinguish between situations of real crisis and other situations that do not respond to real crises. And, for that, it would also be useful the approach that exists in the transaction to which we have arrived EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. Many Basque companies also go to other countries to produce for less money what used to happen here. Some people may call this internationalization. Of course, this name you have is relocation. A recent example is in Matrixías Deusto, a subsidiary of the automotive giant Gestamp, which has decided to close under the excuse that the products manufactured here cannot compete with those manufactured elsewhere. Another example is that of Trenasa, which, even if it is a Navarra company, is a subsidiary of CAF, and it is in the heart of CAF where the attempt to close Trenasa has been designed, because it comes out cheaper to manufacture in Poland. That is, to close, they will say that the company is in crisis – Trenasa, in this particular case – and that the thing is wrong. Both Trenasa and CAF receive large amounts of public money from the Navarro Government, in the case of Trenasa, and from the Basque Government, in the case of CAF. That is why it is also important for public money to be conditional on job guarantees. We would also like to stress from our group, taking advantage of the debate that Mr Casanova has brought us, the idea of that initiative that we presented at the beginning of this parliamentary term. It is profoundly unfair for companies with significant profits for years to lay off workers collectively, even more so when many have received public money in one way or another. When a company has economic problems and starts to raise redundancies, wage cuts or, directly, closures, no one, except workers, usually takes into account the possible profits and dividends that the same company may have had at other times. Fat cows are for those above; weak cows, even if they are sometimes real, are always for those below. And when we talk about those below and weak cows, we are talking about employment, which, as I said, is a right, and the public authorities must look after it. Large, small and medium-sized enterprises today are absolutely interrelated and, in the end, mostly depend on large groups that have strategies and plan on the basis of economic and economic objectives. We do propose a model where the public is involved in the economy, because we think that we must defend jobs, and that requires certain interventions, because it is not real that the market is self-regulating. In the market, private interests operate, and in the capitalist system...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u6	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u7	... – I conclude, Madam President – the market depends on jobs, jobs, which are a right. And that's why we defend public intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u8	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The Mist team representative. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u9	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We must today thank Mr de Bildu – the proposers – and Mr de Podemos for their initiatives in this compromise amendment that they have signed. Looks like they found the philosopher's stone. You're going to make sure there's no stopping, no firing, and that we all live in a happy world. Seriously speaking now, the business world is not like that, and you know it. There is no such thing as a dogma if companies fall or go either out of malice or lack of entrepreneurial capacity. It is more likely that organisations will close or leave for a clear reason: on the one hand, the crisis of COVID-19 and, on the other hand, its fiscal policies, which make them less competitive. Companies need to listen to them and look for points of support between their objectives, their needs and interests and those of the region. That relationship, of course, is not easy. There are complex data and extraordinary difficulties that prevent the possibility of always reaching an agreement. For this reason, in Vox we are committed to the creation of an independent protocol that will be able to account, with some objectivity, for the real situation of the company, its viability and the most feasible options to avoid dismissals. The limits and controls you propose are the best recipe to prevent large companies from approaching our region. Who is going to invest here if we are going to prevent them from acting and making decisions in their own companies? No one. Who is going to invest if, when they go wrong, we have the lords of Bildu and we can say that "get on with it, that they won quite a lot five years ago"? No one. Who will come to invest with their policies in our country? No one. And what's worse, the few that are left will run away. Tell the Basques if they know any multinationals that, in the face of this scenario that you propose, choose Spain or Euskadi as their headquarters to set up their businesses. The best thing for the citizens is that, when some company has an interest in coming, we hide their proposals, although each time, of course, it will be more difficult, as they are now partners of the Government of Spain and they also dispute with the PNV the leadership of the political market. Who knows if they'll ever come to rule. Let us hope not, with these proposals that are bringing us. Policies, yours, that generate poverty and misery. Policies that will turn our region into Bolivia or Venezuela, places where workers have so much appreciation and, in addition, where the few that remain do not have much sympathy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u10	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u11	Thank you, ma'am. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressmen, good morning to all. First, be ye all happy days of rest, and also our Nafar brothers, for it is their day. As soon as Covida appeared, and as the situation was getting worse, we socialist Basques have always defended the same: it is much easier to restore a economy than a life. Long is the bill of this sanitary crisis; long, hard, and expensive indeed. At the moment when the last light of the tunnel is being viewed, all our forces must certainly be with Eukadical economy and, especially with the worker, with small and average companies, autonomous and so forth. Since the first minute, we socialists have been there. From now on, the situation won't be easy. In fact, we'll see the real economic influence of this crisis from now on. Of the great companies, we'll see the closures as well as those who are the correct economic tractors. In accordance with that, small and middle companies will be damaged on both sides by such a domino effect. After the defences of the public, and the crisis conditions, the companies must have a priority for this government, and that's how it is. The added value of manufactures, no doubt, contributes to the whole community wealth. This government, from the first minute, has retained and adapted the measures of pre-eminent government in legal legislation. The commitment of this Government is not only to pick up the witness of what the previous Government put in place; it is in fact capable of adapting it to suit the needs that come from the hand of the productive fabric in Euskadi. Undoubtedly, the evolution of the pandemic and its derivatives obliges them to re-adapt, to adjust the measures to the specific needs, without protections – it is clear – but to make available to the economic fabric of Euskadi instruments and aids that allow them in their internal affairs to take measures to adapt themselves also to their particular situation. The Spanish Government has also put in place countless measures, which, in some cases, have been appointed by Mr Casanova, and not only appointed, but also weighted, which I must thank him for, because it is undoubtedly a sincere gesture in recognition of the good work of the Spanish Government. A clear example of all this is undoubtedly the Bideratu programme, which for a few weeks now has an additional 2 million, in addition to the 20 already planned since April. A program that was already re-adapted a few months before the arrival of this new reality, raw reality – we could say. A programme to support extractive, transformative, productive SMEs in technical services, relating to the information and communication society; in short, a very wide spectrum of companies that have been particularly affected by this health crisis and its consequences. An emergency programme, which strengthens the economic engine of Euskadi and also provides the basis for starting the transition to the future in the form of re-industrialisation and adaptation to the industrial and technological challenges that will undoubtedly come. A programme that is part of a joint strategy, joint, cross-cutting work within the Government, a firm commitment to employment and economic recovery. Bideratu, like the rest of the policies that form the Government's programme of action, wants to improve the quality of employment, promote entrepreneurship and support, as Bideratu does, for SMEs, but also for micro- and self-employed people, and must also facilitate access to employment for unemployed people with greater difficulty of reintegration into working life. These are the priority objectives of this Government and, of course, of many others on this issue. But, in addition to that, and with regard to the policies dependent on the Department of Labour and Employment, also mentioned in this initiative presented by EH Bildu, and led by socialists in the figure of vicelehendakari Idoia Mendia, policies are already under way that reinforce the role of the social economy in the productive fabric of Euskadi. They are policies that deepen the social dialogue and the impulse of an inclusive participatory model of workers in the Basque company, as the previous advisor Maria Jesús San José did with the Oñati Declaration. Because these last two keys are also a fundamental part in achieving a more humane, more social and fairer way out of this crisis that is already living with us. Therefore, we will continue to implement policies aimed at finding higher quality in employment in terms of job stability and working conditions, as a necessary premise for the development of decent life projects by people. That is already under way, that is already under way through policies driven by this Government. Policies that guarantee the professional qualification and permanent suitability of skills as a key element of competitiveness and business sustainability; that stabilize and promote the progressive enrichment of collective bargaining as a basic tool for the distribution of collective wealth and the extension of well-being; that advance towards dynamic models of labour relations and promote the use of negotiated internal flexibility within companies; that provide effective instruments for linking general frameworks with agreements in companies, to enable those to adapt to their specific needs; that develop in the context of a broad-based tripartite social dialogue, which aims to integrate all social actors within them without exception, to move towards a model for the concertation of public policies that is an element of Euskadi's own identity; that assume as a central objective the promotion of effective equality between men and women in order to increase co-responsibility, ensure equity and activate talent without gender bias; that preserve the health and well-being of people in the pursuit of their work activities; that are capable of creating legal conditions and participation, that are conducive to the creation of non-conventional people. In short, that is also co-governance; it is the collaboration between the Basque Government and the Government of Spain, also with the deputies, also with the municipalities, but also with the companies, also with the social partners, that all, from the unit, also have a shared responsibility with this Government and with society as a whole to overcome this very delicate moment. In short, this co-governance that must be the basis of joint work, of a collective effort as a society that allows us to recover the economic, productive and labor pulse, making possible a way out of this crisis centered on people, without leaving anyone behind and without losing the way towards a model of the future that puts us at the forefront of the European economy and employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u12	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. Mr. Casanova, you have given us this just proposal, a proposition which is outside the doors of the session, in order that the law may take its course in this particular matter. You're trying to influence the government, to push the government to your plan. You're doing your job, and I, yo, wait for el mío, mijo, unstopjo de defensa del Gobierno en trinos parlamentarians. In order to do this, I have to analyze what we are asking for, and, in general terms, not only this initiative, I would tell you that I value your work, how you use your initiatives, how you take care of them and protect them; I like how you titrate, how you focus on a given issue; I value your elaborate justifications, in which you create a reality where you surely appear because there is clearly a need; how you fix in your causal link the transit of justification to the operative part; and, finally, how you close with that operative part where you propose the solution, your solution to meet those needs. As you can see, I have nothing but admiration for your work. Now, by making a more concrete analysis of this initiative, I would say to you: you call it "Creating an integral protocol of care for companies in crisis", but in my opinion it should be titled something like "The lack of care for companies in difficulty, a lie dressed in truth". And I would use this title for as much as it reminds me of its writing to the fable of the truth-dressed lie in front of the naked truth, and I explain myself. And, referring to the ideas of his justification, he tells us: "The closure of a large company is always a traumatic situation. The loss of direct and indirect employment, and given the tractor character of these enterprises, affects municipalities, even entire regions." I agree, right, like in the fable. "The defence of employment, the survival of companies affected by crisis situations must be a priority for the institutions. Employment is a right that must be defended by the public authorities." "If employment is linked to industrial activity, the benefits are very diverse. Working conditions are generally better in the industrial world, and wages are also better. There's added value. Industry brings more wealth to society as a whole." "At the moment, in economic terms, we are facing a very difficult situation, and it refers to the destruction of employment caused by the pandemic." And he ends up writing, and I quote him, as this is the object of his initiative today: "It is time for the Basque Government to stop inhibiting and improvising." As in the fable, this is false; it is a lie dressed in the clothes of the truth of previous certain assertions, a falsehood that has two rather short patitas: one, "the Basque government is inhibited", and another, "the Basque government improvises". The first patita: "is inhibited"; the Basque Government takes a profile, you usually say. Today he also told us "to make a mere spectator", "to make a public"... I am clear that on this issue we will hardly reach an agreement: what is for you to profile or inhibit, for me is a proactive and incredibly committed attitude. This government's entire industrial policy is essentially aimed at promoting the competitiveness of Basque companies from all the critical aspects: innovation, internationalisation, job-generating investment, financing, cooperation, training; that is, this government has generated a set of tools available to companies, proactively managed tools that enable them to position themselves in the market more competitively. However, sometimes, and as has been said here, and despite all the efforts, all the efforts of all people, we are faced with situations of companies experiencing difficulties. These are cases that, in periods of contraction of the economy, like the one we live today, can become numerous. This type of situation is dealt with mainly by the Basque Government from two areas of competition: that of work, which attends to the processes of regulation or termination of employment, evaluating, in accordance with the current legislation, the legality, the opportunity, the proportionality of the measures proposed by the companies; and, on the other hand, that of industry, economic development, subject to severe restrictions of action by Community legislation. Cases of companies with short-term difficulties arising from problems of a financial, commercial or productive nature, with a serious potential impact, are systematically analysed by this Government in order to determine whether it is possible to take any financial or brokering action vis-à-vis financial institutions, customers, suppliers or others to promote the solution. In the case of companies with structural problems, the Government necessarily requires the submission of a solid plan for restructuring and recomposition of viability conditions, which has an important economic stake on the part of entrepreneurs and with the agreement of the social side. Perhaps from the outside it may seem a subjective question of different opinions: yours, that of Mr Andueza, that of Mr Hernández, mine..., but, to me, really, sincerely, it is not so, from my point of view. For me, the efforts of this Government in this matter are very objective. I have been able to see what all these activities entail, and it is a huge volume of dedication, with hundreds of meetings and contacts at all levels: business committee, entrepreneurs, investors, suppliers, financial institutions, other institutions... Really, a great effort, and that's not profiling. The second of the fake patitas: "the improvised government". This accusation of his to the Government in his initiative, in his justification, is, in my opinion, objectively easier to prove; it is dismantled – I believe – documentally, and this is the concrete object of his initiative: the creation of the protocol – also called the "Guide to Institutional Intervention" –. The Government, its departments, in particular these two departments, have systematically presented to us their basic lines of action, where clear references are made to this issue that is before us today. I don't see improvisation. The Government has also, on many occasions, submitted plans, funds, programmes and projects that impact on basic elements of the subject of today's debate. I don't see improvisation. But I would like to highlight a moment, a very didactic moment: Commission for Economic Development of 13 November 2017, appearance of the Sailburu Tapia to report on the actions in companies in difficulty. That day, which you were present, this scheme was designed – I don't know if it looks; it's hard to see, because it's not big and plasticized – this scheme was designed, which is a schematic map of the systematic actions that this government is carrying out in companies in difficulty. That day we were shown how this Government has never improvised in support of Basque companies. It is possible that also that day you had the occurrence that today brings us. Mr Casanova, the technical and legal tools are prepared; they have always been prepared. In conclusion, as a summary, you, in your operative part, after your justification, propose to us, in order to cover the needs of Basque companies in difficulty, a small, incomplete and poor copy of the systematic and proactive action that this Government is carrying out. Obviously, what do you want me to say? Faced with its loose copy and the real action of the Government, I take the second one. For this reason, we propose to the Basque Government, in our amendment text, that it continue to facilitate the restructuring of firms in difficulty through the strengthening of the Bideratu programme, as Mr Andueza has already explained in detail, and support for the implementation of investments necessary to address the technological transitions, which are fundamentally digital and energy, in which we are immersed, complemented by actions that continue to favour the relocation of workers. We tell the Government to continue to push forward the model of labour relations through the participation of workers in the company, their linkage and the improvement of transparency, thus giving an effective response to the non-legislative proposal that we unanimously adopt, referring to the inclusive, participatory model of Basque enterprise, in line with the Oñati Declaration. For all this, we will support our text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u14	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u15	Well, good morning. Good morning again. And today's discussion struck me as quite interesting. And I would divide the dispute into two parts: on the one hand the theoretical, or the theoretical frame, and on the other the practical frame. As far as the theoretical frame is concerned, I must thank PP-Ciudadnos's systematic and academic presentation of poliberalism. And, further, I believe that it reflects better the activity of government, or at least the theoretical frame behind that activity, than the parties that support the Government. After all, you join that neoliberalism, you proclaim a kind of economic dandyism. Some companies are strong, they survive. Others are weaker; they are obliged to die, and that is all. The market is wise. There's an invisible hand behind the market. And so we're all very happy, and the economy works very well. But what we have to say today, apart from the fact that we do not agree with this frame of neoliberalism, the neoliberal sector in Europe agrees with the practics which now defend it in this extraordinary state. It is true, if I say in the Spanish Common-wealth, that a ransom is articulated with 10,000 million you may say that it is a decision or folly of the Social Communist government. But if Germany puts 100,000 million millions on the table to create a ransom fund, which now leads to the right's leadership in Europe, then, it means that in this and this crisis, and in order to respond to certain particular interests, the neoliberalists have left out some dogmas too, and have taken the course of practicality. And they said: either in this crisis or in the State the protagonism, or the boundaries of zero deficit, or we owe it without limit, or the problems will be very serious. Whether the Neoliberians or not, all the states have gone that way. And if this crisis has made it clear, it has been the necessity of a state to save our lives, once and for all, and then to defend and promote the economy. And that's what we're proposing here. I won't say today that the paradigma is out of line, but at least the Liberals of Europe have placed it in parentheses. We didn't come here to act against corporations or against corporations, the opposite: we have come here to make a suggestion for enpresion, to assist the survival of the companies. And we don't say that every company has to maintain themselves when they're in a crisis, or that all jobs have to be kept. In fact, literally, it's in our proposal that in some cases there's no choice but to close a company or fire certain people, but save the company. We do not act from dogmatism, and in this vast catechism we allow such cases to happen. But even in these cases, we think that workers cannot be sent to the red street without any more; and for that purpose, a peculiar fund, which has been made in this community at other times, must be created, by special purses, to reform those workers, and to re-establish them in the industry of employment, because their skill, wisdom, and manner of doing are not to be lost, but by other means of seeking employment. There has been but a short time for practical purposes. I'm sorry. I'd even be a little longer on the theoretical side, because I really put things on. But I'd like to answer Mr. Atarz as well. Protocol is not a PowerPoint slide, you said I was in that scene too, and I said the same thing. Some internal facilities for organising an internal protocol and department activity are not the protocol we plan here. It goes without mentioning the origin of the substance, the 200 million, and so on, you didn't say anything. It doesn't improvise. I've already mentioned the funding, and it's not the ransom fund, it's the fund of strategic investment. But I'll give it as an example. Fixing the essence, it doesn't exist today, it doesn't exist morally. And the government has predicted a number of operations with the fund of repairs on the basis of the plan, IstanbulCAF, Kaikun... because of the improvisation, because of the improvisation. It wasn't planned. Even the fun isn't planned. The field fund exists to encourage workers' intervention. Two million euros. Not much. Has he ever used it? I don't know, I don't think so. You mentioned the road. It was first called "during," now it was COVID. Twenty million and two more, but in answer to small companies, to respond to small companies. And, uh, the big companies... , a single large company can fertilrate the entire COVID-19 fund because needs are bigger. So, we think... and I do not say that the Government does nothing, but that the Government ought to improve it in an organized manner; that it must be agreed with known public protocols and sociational agents; that the protocol must begin from prevention, and that it must end either in the salvation of the company, or at least in the re-establishment of the workers. And this protocol needs to be added to a rescue fund that will give it a economic muscle, for hard times will come. Now there are some companies in critical condition...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u16	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u17	...and we'll have more in the near future. And, in my opinion, and unfortunately, the government isn't prepared, and new and stronger tools are needed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u18	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Popular Group-Ciudados. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u19	Thank you very much. I start by apologizing, because this old professor doesn't know what neoliberalism is. We know liberalism, but I've never heard anyone use the concept of neoliberalism more than to offend or insult. Yes, I would, that said..., I would like an answer, but, as it will not be possible today – just like at another time – to clarify that concept, which I do not know. I would like to clarify four or five things. One of them is: we seem to have a problem with the concept of the public-private. We like public schools. We don't like private schools. We like public enterprises. We don't like private companies. Well, it depends; if they're cooperatives or industry, yes, but, if not, no. When a private company hires a large number of people, that's a private matter. When it makes the opposite disinvestment, it's a public matter. I'm sorry, I have a little problem with understanding here too; I don't quite understand how this concept of the public-private is going. We are betting on rescuing companies, but at the same time we do not let them restructure, we do not let them resize, we do not let them adapt to markets, which would really guarantee their survival. Well, I don't understand either. It is recognized to me that the fact that companies design strategies and have interests is the proof that we must be suspicious of them. And I admit that yes, I must take my pedagogical interest in explaining something basic. And it is that companies redesign strategies or design strategies and have interests to compete in their markets, not against anyone other than competition, and that this is what they have to do, that this is what is expected of them, and, when best done, it will be the way they best survive. Companies are not interested – I think it is clear – in firing employees; that is, companies are interested in surviving and capturing talent and growing. That's what companies want. And when they reduce templates, it's because they have no choice; they don't do it for any kind of pleasure. And, on the other hand – and I'm pulling back from the pedagogy again – I agree that there can be companies in the market that cheat; for example, that close one company to open others – a maneuver that is legally prohibited – because not all companies are good. But not all companies are bad – and we had talked about not being dogmatic. Indeed, in companies, like people, there is everything. And what we do have to have is a regulation, which already exists, very clearly, about what the company can and cannot do; and we must ensure that regulation is made that is attractive so that, in fact, companies can develop and compete on the international market. I again draw from the pedagogical character to clarify that internationalization and relocation are things that have nothing to do with it; they are very different concepts. Finally, I agree; we share two objectives: one basic objective is to create employment. We all agree. What we seem to disagree clearly is how to achieve it. And I agree that we cannot create jobs if we scare companies or limit them in their management. And I completely agree that we must relocate or help to relocate the people who are affected, and that we must put in place the necessary social protection mechanisms. We agree. But this is not incompatible, indeed, it is complementary to actions to protect markets and to actions to increase competitiveness, which, in the end, should be the objective that will allow us to grow and be competitive at a global level – I repeat –. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u20	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together, representative of the Podemos-IU team. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u21	I don't know exactly, Mr. Gil Vegas, who you mean when you talk about using the term neoliberalism in a pejorative sense. Well, it's a debate, an ideological debate. We disagree with that ideology, with those concepts, and that's it. If you think that's pejorative, well, this is a parliament; this is politics. I understand that we are here to defend different, even contrary, ideas that we will have to say, I say. And I understand what you say, and the only thing I blame you on many occasions is that you put in the mouth of the left things that the left has not said and things that the left does not believe, that it does not believe that entrepreneurs are bad per se; the left what it says is that there are interests, that there are interests and that we do not share that "companies only fire when there is no other remedy". We do not share it, because sometimes they fire because it is good for concrete interests; on some occasions, reprehensible, from a point of view, even ethical; on others, not so much, but rather reprehensible from an ideological point of view, in the sense that they produce layoffs and people are left on the street. And we argue that, in view of this, the capacity of states, governments, to intervene is positive and good, because they have to defend jobs, and sometimes, therefore, that may contradict the particular interests of companies. All right. We advocate that governments defend the general interest, in this case, of Basque society, and we believe that intervention is positive. And there's no mess between the public and the private – I don't know if anyone is in trouble; we don't have any mess and we're clear about it. And when we say that we have to intervene, we are also talking about social control, etc., because the model that we do not share is the model that is basically based on aid, which I believe is a little bit the position of the Basque Government or the policy of the Basque Government, which says Mr Aiartza that, in fact, it is acting to help the competitiveness of companies in innovation, etc. But, of course, but then, we do not act on the mechanisms that work in the market and that produce those layoffs with which we find ourselves on many occasions, which are not inevitable. And that is the policy that we do defend. That is to say, public resources, if they are used to promote the competitiveness of companies, to help companies, must have some guarantees that there will be the maintenance of jobs, because the general interest, in our opinion, with regard to companies, is that they generate wealth and employment, and that there will be a sharing of that wealth. Because, from an ideological point of view, the issue of interventions or rescues is being questioned – today it is true that the only one I have heard really frontal words against this model is Mr Gil Vegas. I don't know what you think about the billionaire bailouts that were made to the bank a few years ago, in this case, by the state; millionaire bailouts, billionaire bailouts. I don't know; that's public intervention. Of course, it was a lot of public money that went to the banks, and we were told it was absolutely necessary, because, if not, the banks were falling and behind the banks we were all going. We have seen no hard part of that again; we have seen no capacity to intervene in the management of banks. The banks, the managers of the banks, indeed, proved, as you say, that they are the best managers; that is why they caused a crisis on a global scale, the previous crisis that we have. Look, yes, companies are the ones that know best how to design their future, but we also have a different concept of what companies are. In our opinion, the workers of companies are the ones who best know how to design the future of companies, but the workers are not the ones who decide the future of companies, except in cooperatives or companies where there is social control. That's why we're defending that model. This week, the Aernnova company committee in the committee showed it very well; they did know what the company's future was, but behind the management's decisions there were specific interests, which are not evil, but they are interests that are going to leave people on the street.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u22	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Is the missile going to take the word? He mustn't speak. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u23	Thank you, ma'am. Indeed, when we are talking about issues of this stalemate, there are many times that even transcends the very ideological, because it is an issue that has a very far-reaching impact on society, and, often, even in our own ideological formulas, we do not find the cornerstone that truly solves this issue. I think that in this we also have to have a much more open mindset and not always have the ideological closure that only leads us one way. I think we need to find ways of meeting, and the best example is in trying to overcome this crisis on the part of everyone. Undoubtedly, the rescue plan that has come from Europe is the result, among other things, of the joint work, of a combination of interests on the part of the different states, with a common objective, which is to overcome this situation; and it is also, of course, the result of the negotiation, of the search for an agreement, of the hand extended, but, above all, of the confluence from different areas, even ideological, of the interests of the different states, of the conjunction of a common point that makes us all stronger. And, in this regard, I believe that the representation, the role of the Spanish representation in that negotiation must be very valued, because it will be fundamentally key for, from the different autonomous communities and from the state itself, the fruit of everything that will come from that negotiation, to be able to deal with this situation in a much more solvent way. I, Mr Casanova, do not deny you your goodwill, because, moreover, I believe it; that is, there is no bad faith reading your initiative, you look where you look. Undoubtedly, it is an initiative of goodwill, but I believe that on many occasions it exceeds what is the responsibility of the Government itself. That is to say, the Government cannot be responsible for each and every dismissal in Euskadi; it can be jointly responsible, in part, for the consequences as long as it has to put in place instruments, which already have them, social protection instruments that allow those people who have become unemployed not to be left unprotected. It is a co-responsibility, but, of course, it cannot be responsible for each and every one of the redundancies that take place in Euskadi, as it cannot be co-responsibility for the future of all Euskadi companies. In other words, I think that going to a model of extreme interventionism would even exceed the government's own powers. In other words, we cannot have the government permanently focusing on businesses or carrying out extreme control over their day-to-day lives. I understand that there are elements and patterns of control, of monitoring, of reorientation, even of certain tendencies in some companies, which, of course, cause this government, in some way, to fiscalize, control and reorientation in many cases different policies and different attitudes, precisely, to boost the economy in Euskadi. But, of course, I do not believe that this model of extreme interventionism is viable or even recommended. The government can do what it can do is to accompany, accompany companies, facilitate certain transits, help them financially; for example, by putting capital in certain companies – companies that, by the way, will also have to provide capital corresponding to that aid that the government makes them strategically; by facilitating another positioning in the market; by facilitating greater and better internationalisation through instruments that the government has already put in place; by subsidizing modernization, improving the infrastructure of companies, so that they are more competitive; by supporting R & D+i so that we are all more competitive. In short, the Government has to do cross-cutting work between its different departments, and, of course, cross-cutting work also between institutions and also between the different social actors, to make us stronger. Finally, I believe that the foundations, in the form of policies, are already under way, not from now on, but from the very beginning of this crisis. I have no doubt that this Government will also have the capacity, through dialogue with the social partners and, as I said, through cross-cutting work, to adapt them in line with the evolution of this crisis, of this situation which, of course, will not be short or, of course, will be light to bear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u24	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u25	Thank you, ma'am. From this debate I would draw a first overall conclusion: I think it is an issue that concerns us all – I think it is being demonstrated – and a way of demonstrating itself is being the tone, the good tone. So, I think it is important to underline that. In this good tone, I was going to make an assessment of the sex text. With which, I had spoken of bad copy; I will speak of not good copy, not good copy. And this text fucked to me seemed to me not a good copy of a not a good copy. With this in mind, what you have achieved with your transaction is to make the initial approach worse, in my view. I have worked with two initial ideas: the proactive, indisputable attitude, from our point of view, which the Government has on this issue, and then systematic and planned action. And, Mr. Casanova, it wasn't just a transparency; there were many more, there were many more – review that appearance. In any case, these transparencys or projections were a map of the Government's systematic action in the case of firms in difficulty. A third idea. You also said to us: "Not all companies have the same problems, so there is no single solution for all of them." All right, we totally agree. But, in a way, it contradicts; I understand it contradicts, because it says this but then it makes us an almost checklist approach, of checking a listing. The difficulty of this systematic action of the Government is immense, it is immense. It must address productive, commercial, financial, talent management, soil, tools, programs, environmental problems, health problems – we are seeing it now – health issues, a world of issues. And you propose that we reduce it to a follow-up on a mere list? From my point of view, from my point of view, it does not seem to me to be a very serious approach. And a fourth idea. Speaking of the difference between theoretical and practical, a fourth idea that brought us here now. After having talked about these more theoretical questions, a practical question. I have lived within a company in difficulty, and it is very hard to live within a company in difficulty. I don't know if you've lived. But for a company in difficulty there is a question that is tremendously hard, which is visualization, visualization of enterprise, of being in difficulty out there. It's tremendously hard. Do you know what it means, the consequences that such recognition can have for a company? It's too hard. It's too hard. This is a tremendously practical issue. I believe that, if I knew, if I had lived it at least as I have lived it, to the whole theory that develops, fundamentally to that approach of proactive action of the Government, I would add another idea: the idea of acting with discretion, the idea of acting with discretion. I think it's essential. In any case, and to conclude, and to be positive, I believe that something has progressed more than in tone. Not so many years ago, I heard a deputy general from Gipuzkoa say, "I'm not going to make an anti-crisis plan, because it's no use." Well, today you bring us a small, incomplete and not a good copy of the systematic and proactive action that this government is doing. I sincerely consider this to be a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u26	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. End of discussion, we're gonna vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos-IU teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; the votes that are given, 74; the supporters, 27; the opponents of the enemy, 47; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u27	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters 7; the contrary, 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u28	So it's not accepted. After that, we'll vote for the Miststo team's full-line correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters 1, the contrary, 67; abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u29	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And in the end, we will vote for the general correction of the Euiza Absterides and the Sociialists of Basques. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 40; the contrary, 27; the abstainments 7; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u30	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Provide another proposal of the law made by the parliamentary Team, concerning the Inegrated Sanitio Institute of Toulouse. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Iriart, the representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u31	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, congressmen. Today, first of all, the Basque Day, all the salmon of eroscal, my warmest embrace. I speak of leaves against the currents of great languages, because in their daily hearts they use their tongues to keep them in their mouths. For all these, even my warmest embrace, are all thanks to us all who hold it here in their mouths. And it's a day to celebrate today. And as Sarrik said, "To the lake, our only free story," I will add to it that another whole story may be long since, a land free from our rest. In fact, I'm here to present to you the same proposal as today, about the published publication of the Intentional Sanitio Institute in Tolsala. In the first place, I would like to thank you; I am convinced that we have both been obliged to leave something in the way of agreement, but in this path and path between the two different ones, we go on together. And that's the way. And this is the way, in this matter as well as in all others. PSE and EAJ's government can't be done, but we've tried. And although we stopped on the road, I think we've gone a few steps ahead, and I'm glad of that too. Your first principle of correction was to make a functional plan, which was not enough for us; it was very far from our fundamental law. And I tried to contain all of your demands, and here I suggested to you a middle course obtained by Poseidon. In this medium, they were elemental for us, and I included certain points that were hooks: by which means to guarantee the nature of the public health system, and demand this publication; to put an end to the future of the workers of clinic in Asuncion, and to put a solution to it on the table; to take an axis on the common character of the future health system to which it will be proposed; and, to develop it, to interact with the mayors who compose the region's health station, either to conduct the intercollection, or to direct it. It wasn't possible, it wasn't possible, but your last proposal brought a step forward. And I am glad to be here publicly told you: in this second proposition, as a foundation for functional plan, or public hospital. I'm glad you put aside the center of high resolution and put the public hospital in your texts. I've spent eight years in the City of Toulouse in history. four mayors and four other oppositions. It's in our schedule, it's been on our schedule, it's on our schedule, it's on the local agenda, it's in the town halls, it's on the operating sites, it's among the people. I came here. I'm here, invited by the Basque People at that time, to inform them that Carmelo was president of the Medical Committee. I came here two or three times. And to-day, if there is this consent to the public health and the public hospital here, at least for years and years in the country, the work which has been done in Toulouse, is the result of the agents, the mayors, the mayors of the Mayors, the mayors of the Basque Country, but also of the independent hospital, have brought it here several times. And thanks from this place to Rebaba, who, after all, had invited him to tell us more than once about the situation in Toulouse. And in this part of the legislature, Rebbeka, it is proper that this flame should be kept alive. Then for me, I thank him for everything. And I liked you, at least for the first time, to cry out for the public hospital, but our goal was to-day, at least, to talk about roots and the earth-that is to say, we'll build up everything else. Hence we shall build the nature of the public hospital, the manner of the functions. But we're talking about roots. We're talking about the land where we build the Zulus. And this was the reason, today, of bringing ESI's publication; for the poles must be arranged among all the rest. And in this sense we are satisfied, but also sorry, because we have not succeeded in agreeing with it; for we have not agreed to the posts of that system which will be public, because we have not agreed to do so in the future, I say, in the future. I'm sorry, because we haven't agreed, because we haven't managed to get an interlocution to be in the mouth of all the agents and mayors in the region. Pity in that sense. Anguity, on the other hand, is not given to some groups, and the parties who are the manager of the public administration and its protectors, because at this moment you do not either declare or do not defend the public health, at least in my case, in this motive, or, pardon me, in this other proposition, I am made to be a sign of the town, which is still a pledge to me. And in this sense, anxiety, anguish, because we see it, we want to know what will happen with Asuncio's employees in Asunion on this future health system at Toulouse. We think they must be subconscious, and we need to look for a legal formula to integrate them into the health system. It's been years and years since they've been offering the service of the Osature, much worse conditions, and setting up more and more of them in everyday life. They deserve an answer to all of them. And, as I have already observed, the end of the other proposition is that public health is a new model of future life, and that this is the foundation of the whole succession. Of course we'll have to discuss it, and we'll talk about the new public hospital that's going to be built in Toulouse. But we need to talk about the entire health system. We must discuss what we shall do, or, if, in Asuncion, Klinika becomes a sociostanitarian hospital, what an example, what a model of management, which we believe, must be public. And everyone here is to build the future and build the future health system in Toulouse. And we believe that we have opportunities to choose this future health system in common health and prevention. And therefore the third point of this other proposition, as today, is as follows: "To renew the functional plan which will be intended to adapt the ESI to new times, by designing and starting the project of health in common attention, suffrage, and prevention, in accordance with prevarication, the prevarication of the predilections, the premeditation of the predilections, and the environment of the regional operatings." I think we've been in the 21st century for a long time. in the last century. It's been two decades since the "Efecto 2000" and all of them went by. We're 20 already. And I suspect that often, in the 80th decade, our health systems were founded in the 20th century. that it still depends on the roots, and that it is not the 21st. Get in the back of the house. And the pandemics have revealed many things, but before the pandemy, there are certain signs of our society that things are changing. It is clear that we have more and more solitudes; that is, there are more and more people who live alone. The nursing place is rising; we have an old society. That's right. There are great evils connected with mental health; An addiction, sedentarism... 21st these are the evils that depend upon us. And the health system must adapt itself to them. And we think it's a good format for them to fit the communal health development of a health system that will have an axis. And we believe that it is necessary to develop that a system which will be public, because it will only ensure a proper co-ordination for the means of developing this system in the region, which alone will place health, service, and not business in the centre. And to do all that, to do all that, the Department of Health is not enough. But that's why we think we have objective conditions to make it happen in Toulouse. The health subject is in the calendar for the past few years: It's on the political schedule, it's on the local agenda, it's on the address book. There's a preparation for this. There's no point in this. That's why we propose today to build a future public system that will be rooted in the communal health at Toulouse. How about that? Now, with all those mayors who've already shown their pride. The whole is numerous, and must be answered from this variety. It is a plurality politically, but it is in a variety of ways. 31 townships, 19 townships less than one thousand inhabitants. There are ruts in the villages. We have different attentions before. We got ops. We have townships, sports, schools. With all these, you have to create a network to build a system based on watch and preventive preventation. And so we already have that medical table made up of the mayors. And let this be the valide tool for interlucation, which seems to us to be proper. And I'd like to make a little story. It sounds silly, but it's not. And it's also the reason you're here. In the '70s, Tolsano, the Toulouses, we had four clinics: San Cosme y San Damián, Izazun Klinika, San Juan Klinika and Asuncion Clinika. Four clinics. The first Olympic stadium in the Spanish State was also founded in Toulouse. It's not a coincidence. Because of this Villapelera, there were some families who had money, and they made infrastructure. Well, we're all from the root of all that. In the 1980s, as long as Escal's health system began to develop, to develop, to build public hospitals in the provinces, and to build the Toulousen, from the point of view, was a region below. To make a Simil, from the yellow maillot in the Tour de France, we banged down the Tour de France and turned into a red lamp-post. This is why we believe that there are objective conditions in the Tolsos. in the century the working of ESI and the public health integral to the top of the line again. And the presciousness we have here... And I, who know the region, who belongs to it, know that these conditions are complete with the operators and municipal councils in the development of that system which will serve as a common watch and prevention. So it wasn't possible today. There was an approach, and I'm glad, but I think we still have a way to make it. And in that way, I hope I see you. After all, we're talking about eupscal's health system and the Tolsopian. But what we develop and agree on in Tolsa may be exported to all the other EsIries. So let's sit down. let us look to the age, and set to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u32	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. We're gonna go over to the teams that filed the corrections. Together, Podemos-IU. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u33	We believe that the medical model in Tolos is an example of public health at the service of private interests. We believe that the model that is currently being implemented in Tolosaldea is an example of what should not be done from public health, what should not be done from the Basque Government. We think that this is one of the clearest examples we can have in Euskadi of how, from the public point of view, from public health, therefore, private interests are favored. We think that this model of Tolosaldea proves well... In this we agree: Tolosaldea lacks a public model, really public, because they do not have it. They have the opposite model; they have a model where, from the public, we put the money, that is, but, from a private – and very concrete – environment, they can offer the services that should be offered from public health and profit from it, earn a money with it. We do not share that model; we are in favour of completely reversing that model. That model, or both different, opposite models – it is true that they also respond, in this debate, to ideological positions – but that model has a number of consequences, and I think that in Tolosaldea, therefore, many and many neighbors have been demonstrating and denouncing it for years. And I'm going to highlight three consequences of which the neighbors themselves have been denouncing for years – and, moreover, organizing themselves –: worse service for the neighbors of Tolosaldea; worse conditions for the workers who have to provide health services in Tolosaldea, in the private clinic La Asunción; and one last consequence, that a company with particular interests earns money, practically, exclusively from the public. And we do not agree at all with that model. Many years ago – as I said – people in the region have been organizing against this model and claiming to have a public model. It seems to us to be an absolutely fair claim. And, in addition, one of the things they say is, "in other regions, it seems that the model is different." Well, and they're right, and they're right. We believe that the Basque Government is not yet giving the guarantees, and that is why there is no agreement on our part. And yesterday we saw the same debate at Gipuzkoa General Councils. The model does not guarantee to those of us who advocate that there is a truly public model in Tolosaldea; it does not guarantee that this will be the case in the future, and not only because specific items are not included for the next budgets, for the start-up of the public hospital – a public hospital can be reached in different ways. For the time being, then, we are talking about a functional plan. And we think we need guarantees. And above all, the people who have been defending a public system for Tolosaldea need assurances that the government's commitment, that the government's goal is to completely reverse the model that has been being promoted and implemented in Tolosaldea for many years, to end up in a truly public model. And they have no guarantees. And, of course, to us, the people or our people who have been participating in that movement for many years, of course, would not forgive us at this time that we were not demanding in that sense. What we are asking of the Basque Government is to be clear, to tell the neighbours whether it is prepared that the future of public health in Toulouse is really a public health, that is, where there are no services provided through private companies. Because, moreover, in the case of Tolosaldea, with the Clinic La Asunción, it is a paradigmatic case, whose director, owner, therefore, moves very well with the public administrations and moves very well when it comes to handling and defending their interests. Mr Gómez Montoya has already said on some occasion, in an interview, that for him the best health model is the model of public ownership and private management. Well, of course, he lives on it. How won't the best model look to you! He doesn't just live on it; he takes advantage of it. It's normal for him to think of himself as the best model. We certainly don't think it's the best model. We believe that the public administration of the Basque Government should not be the best model. Mr Gómez Montoya – I will refer to him again – has particular interests. And we don't think we should allow you to follow this model where some benefit from public money for their private businesses. Mr. Gómez Montoya was also part of the property of the El Pilar Clinic in Donostia; a clinic that closed a few years ago and that, curiously, when it closed, we could read in all the press that closed because the derivations that came from public health had collapsed, because most of the business came from public health. There would also be a part of the private business, which is legitimate; they are looking for their customers. It's the only private clinic I've been to in my life, the El Pilar Clinic, because, when we were going to have our eldest daughter, it occurred to us that we wanted – it was fashionable that of 3D ultrasounds –... Well, we went to a private service; we hired him; we saw the ultrasound, great; with a historical perspective – maybe a mess. But that was a private, legitimate service. But most of the business was based on the public referrals that could, should give public health, which is the model that we really call public health, public health. I say this to distinguish the two models, and also to put on the table – because this debate is about Tolosaldea, but it is also a debate about models in health – to put on the table, therefore, that there are private interests that act and that benefit from public money in this regard. That clinic, that of the Pilar, closed, and, moreover, closed not without – in our opinion – giving a ball, because that was on some tertiary land – supposedly going to other land, in return. Looks like they requalified. The clinic didn't go anywhere; it closed. Now, there's a yard there; it's in front of my house. And there's a panel there that announces the houses they're going to build, some houses I don't know if of luxury, but, of course, quite expensive. And, also, the same person who is behind the interests of the La Asunción Clinic, therefore, also has interests in another clinic in Donostia, because they have tried or are trying – they are trying – also to influence the urban plans on a plot on the hillside of Ulysses to build a hotel, a great hotel. And, therefore, I went to Donostia from Tolosaldea, because I wanted to show that, behind the model of Tolosaldea – and the problems it has generated and the protests that exist against that model; that is our opinion – there is a model of concertation, or whatever they want to call it, in which the public puts money and there are private interests that benefit. And that doesn't seem like a good model to us. And that's why we think that in Tolosaldea that model has to be reversed. And if the Government agrees to reverse that model, we will agree with the Government. We believe that, at this time, these are not the objectives of the Government. Well, we'll see, when you do the functional study, if you make a little more concrete, if those are your goals, if they're shared goals or not. Right now, of course, we don't think so. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u34	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u35	Thank you, President. The health issue in the Tolosaldea region has not been a peaceful issue and has been full of uncertainties over time. I, for not going too far back, will tell you that in 2011, when the then Councillor of Health and Consumption, Rafael Bengoa, and his team explained the health reorganization of the region, they already put dates and decisions of this Parliament on the table, which were guidelines and guidelines that had been followed in an important work of determining the path to follow in the health field of the region of Tolosaldea. There have been several milestones that need to be highlighted in order to understand this issue. The first, which, in March 2007, in the debate on a socialist initiative, unanimously adopted a compromise amendment consisting of the Government presenting, in eight months, a proposal for health planning for the Tolosaldea region from the public sector, taking into account all the resources in the area. In October 2007, the Basque Government submitted to Parliament a study-proposal of three alternatives to health planning and organization. And in 2008 the Basque Parliament, this Basque Parliament, opted for the third alternative, for the third option. In 2010, after a process of reflection, a project is proposed that adapts this option, that third option of 2008, from the integration of public and private assistance resources – the decision of the Basque Parliament – to the new strategies of the department. In October 2011, the no-law proposal of February 2011 was implemented, requesting the submission of a project for care integration in Tolosaldea, taking into account the work done to date on private mixed coordination, and ensuring, in any case, the maintenance of the labour rights of workers at the Toulouse outpatient clinic. These are decisions of this House. They are not occurrences of external actors; decisions of this Parliament. Hence Councillor Bengoa and his team proposed a model that promoted the role of primary care as a gateway and first contact with the citizen; that there would be continuity of care between primary care and specialized care, and also with social and social health services, responsibility of the Provincial Council in the region, matching the care and provision of services in Tolosaldea to the rest of the Gipuzkoa regions. And the development of new services at the La Asunción Clinic was proposed with a much more resolute concert, going to a funding model based on the requirement of results to the clinic and homologable to the funding model existing in the contracts-program with other regional hospitals. Another milestone: the Agreement of 30 November 2014 of the Board of Directors of Osakidetza, which establishes OSI Tolosaldea, describing its characteristics and indicating its complementarity with the hospital assistance to be provided by the corresponding services of the hospital of a concerted nature located in the population reference area in the terms set out in the formal concert between the hospital and the Department of Health of the Autonomous Community. And the Basque Socialists have repeatedly expressed themselves in the series of debates held in this House regarding the OSI in Toulouse in the following terms: we have always made public our position for universal, public, free and quality health care for all Basque and Spanish citizens. We have always called for measures to ensure health care in the Tolosaldea region under the same quality, services and resources conditions as in the rest of the Gipuzkoa regions that can be approved for the rest of the ISOs in Euskadi. In March 2019, we even called for the presentation of the evaluation report of the concert with the La Asunción Clinic to analyze the health offer and continue to improve it. And, in the face of the debate that we have again today on the OSI of Toulouse, the position of the Basque Socialists is based, first, on the government agreement signed on 30 September between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra, which expresses the Government's commitment to strengthen public health and to modernise and adapt health facilities and equipment, indicating that a specific plan for the improvement and modernisation of health facilities and equipment for the entire legislature will be adopted. This plan will include, among other things, the construction of a high-resolution centre in the municipality of Toulouse. We are also based on the government program of this twelfth legislature, approved last October 13th, and which develops the government agreement in the second axis, in the area of action 11, in commitment 72 and in the initiative one on approval of a general plan of improvement and modernization of sanitary facilities and equipment, which expressly contemplates the construction of a high-resolution center in the municipality of Toulouse. And we are based on the answers that, in writing and orally, the Health Adviser gave on 28 and 30 October on the high-resolution centre of Toulouse, in which it is explained, on the one hand, that a high-resolution centre is one where complex diagnostic and therapeutic processes can be solved that do not usually require hospital admission, and it is said that the infrastructure will be of public management, with the definition of the service portfolio pending, and that the process will begin with the elaboration of the functional plan and the construction project, as well as its budgetary expression. There is no defined timeline beyond the drafting of this functional plan and the construction project for 2020-2021. The requests of the mayors and neighbors of the Tolosaldea region have not always been homogeneous about the health structure of the region. They have gone from the incorporation of the La Asunción Clinic into the public network to the construction of a new hospital or the conversion of the clinic into a structure to offer in the social health field. And what is clear today and is contained in the government agreement is that commitment of the Basque Government to build a public health infrastructure, which has not yet determined the care services it will provide, and which will serve as support to the Toulouse OSI in its territorial area. Hence the need to develop a functional plan, as a first and fundamental step in determining the care services to be deployed at the Toulouse OSI. We know, because the Health Advisor said, that the need to have a diagnostic capacity center that includes conventional radiology, external consultations of hospital specialties in ambulatory, radiology, laboratories, major surgery ambulatory capacity and day hospital adequacy, as well as the request for a conventional hospital, is being evaluated. It will therefore depend on this functional plan to determine the characteristics and services of this public infrastructure. And the Basque socialists, since our commitment to a public health, universal, quality and free of charge in Euskadi, and in order to guarantee the commitment of the government agreement signed by our party, we have tabled a joint amendment with the Basque Nationalist Party, which seeks to keep this public health care, universal and quality to the citizens of the entire region of Tolosaldea in the same conditions as the rest of the integrated OSI of Euskadi. We also urge the Basque Government to allocate the necessary resources to be able to draw up this functional plan as soon as possible and to be able to implement those resources, services and public health infrastructure that are more appropriate and that respond, in particular, to the assistance needs identified, in order to further improve the health care of the citizens of Tolosaldea. We propose in our amendment that the development of this functional plan take into account technical health criteria, population criteria, territorial criteria, organizational criteria and identified needs of the region, as well as the challenges facing the implementation of this plan and the financial economic resources available at all times. Finally, in the interests of full transparency, and with the aim of bringing this functional plan to the attention of this House, we urge the Department of Health to present it to the Health Committee of the Basque Parliament as soon as it is completed. We wanted to take a step further, to move forward on a possible agreement, and therefore both the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups offered Euskal Herria Bildu a compromise proposal that would be more concrete, more specific, and we proposed that a necessary budget be included in the next budgets in order to be able to draw up this functional plan and to put into practice those resources and services of the public hospital in Tolosaldea. We also planned that these technical criteria of population, territorial... should be taken into account; that is, that they should make a complete and ad hoc functional plan of what is the region of Tolosaldea, and also, of course, the fact that as soon as the functional plan is completed, the Health Commission will be informed. And we added something else: we also added urging the Municipality of Toulouse, in collaboration with the Department of Health, to find and advance the studies for that location and implementation of the construction of the hospital of Toulouse. I mean, it went beyond that. It was a clear offer of compromise, okay; it was a precise offer, which we believe did not give rise to any doubt as to the position and determination of the Basque Socialists on this issue. We regret that you have tabled another amendment, keeping it in your political strategy. And at least, I hope... I do not know whether it will bear much fruit; what I do know is that you have avoided, by not agreeing, you have avoided that we did not take that small step further than you thought very well in the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. And good morning to all. Well, as Mr. Irriart has mentioned, and especially after hearing Mr. Hernandez's interference, I should like to remind you that the principal cause of this other is to publish the ESI of Tolsos. For, after listening to certain things, I think it's very important to determine it. Therefore, I would like to begin by confirming that the ESI of Tolsa is as public as any other ESI of the Basque Autonomy Eroria. After reading the expression of the experience, and according to what we are listening to, it seems that it often does not seem very well to know what is the ESI of Tolsalus and to Klinika in Assunci. For ESI of Tolos is not alone in Asuncion, but Clinics; it is much more. Be aware that OsSI is a system for organising ESIs, that the ESI is a structure for organizing service. And, for example, in the case of Tolsea, the five primary units of attention form ESI: The ones, the Ibar, the Billabonata, the Andoing and the health centers of Toulouse, but also the other 21 queries connected to them. But besides this, we have a constant attention to ESI in Tolsa, an ambulance of specials, and also a reference center, as regards the tertiary attention, and this, in Aesunius Klinika, is in agreement. But that's all ESI. The ESI of Tolsalus, like the rest of the Ossians, is an organization of the most public character, and offers public health hospitality to the people. And the purse of services offered to the people is entirely public. And the others have quoted history, the situation in which Toulouse was before, what had happened... Madam Corcuera has here mentioned several of the compromises in this legislature, and so on. I, in whispers and... I won't get that far. But, well, I'd like to go back in time, and we'll go to the time when there was still ESI or the sanitarian organization that didn't exist. For the model for organising medical services, that pattern we now know, has not always been so. On the contrary: in the past years, the special attention and attention has been extended to this model which integrates or combines with a regional reference hospital. And Mrs. Corcuera has also mentioned the decree of 2014, but the extension of EsI of Tolsos was over in 2015-that is, less than five years ago. On the other hand, the original agreements made in Asuncion with Cliniik were much earlier. Then, in 2011, in the year Invizia, the firm appeared, but in advance, long before, the treaty had been made with the clinic in Asuncie. For instance, 80, 90. At ten o'clock, when the Mayors of Tolsopolatians demanded of them, the first pledges were made by their initiative, because this sanitary resource had already existed in the country, and that would help them to improve the health of the people, and therefore they would receive it from their own home as closely as possible from the people's house. And why at least do we think it's important to know context? Well, how we've reached our current state to understand. For, as it is evident, the wants of the people have changed as the years have elapsed, and Mr. Irrire has also remarked this subject. In 1983, when the Osacides were founded, that is to say, 37 years ago, or even 15 years ago, the citizens or the needs of the society have nothing to do with the needs or needs of our people. On the one hand, the demographic change has been remarkable, and we all live more and more. And the number of people who have suffered chronic illness in recent years has been connected with it. But not only that: Even technology, even the technology used in medical training, is changing more and more rapidly. And then the health system itself gives precedence to preventive systems before past treatment. And there's nothing to say about the impact of the plague that we're living in the last year. So the public's needs have changed during the time. And, consequently, the health department, as well as the department of the Osarists, have attempted to answer these changes by the best plan. And these changes have even occurred in Tolos, and have affected health plan for that region during years. In Asunciion, the Esquire d'Esabili Iriarti, who existed before the birth of Clinika Osa, has also reminded us of the 'Bacacre'. There were other clinics in Asuncion where Clinics also existed in Toulouse. But, of course, if there hadn't been Clinica in Tolsunius, there would have been a different plan in Toulouse during the last decades. It wouldn't have been the ESI of Toulouse as we know it now. But it is a reality, it is reality. This clinic exists; it existed when it was decided to make covenants. And this sanitary structure has been taken advantage of by compacts, so that in conjunction with the clinic, we can provide as much attention or service as possible to the people of the district of Toulouse. For instance, before the year of 2010, before the inspection of the Inviza, it is important to emphasize the encyclium, which was made up of terms with the clinic in Asunius, a few services to the people of Tolsalus, and especially the radio. In fact, we may say that at that time the people of Tolos had a double opportunity of receiving health, and in other countries they had a double opportunity. In the Anbulatory of the Izacteria, they took care of the general specialities of the Donostian Hospital, but they had a chance of receiving their attention to the clinic in Asunius. But after 2010, our Autonomia Ermania began to form an organizational system of the ESI, which has reminded us also by Mrs. Epse of the year 2010. And this, in the health service plan, produced a remarkable change in Eukadin, and also in the Tolsos. At the time of the chief physician of Bengos, it was proposed that there should be no doubling, that Clinica should perform the function of the regional hospitals of Osalia, and that the specialities of the Santian Hospital should no longer serve in the Angalator of Nature. It was a moment's chance. According to the planning of the moment, that was the decision. but after the year of 2013, this plan was reviewed. He drew back in a great measure, just because of the peculiarity of this district in the Tolos, there is a private clinic. The service had its first attention, but the hospital's attention, specialized, was given at Asuncion by private clinic. And as this gave rise to certain difficulties in the usual management, it was decided to keep the medical specials to the care of the ESI of St. After all, what I mean by this historical context is that the new organizational organization of the ESI has brought in, in all cases, to be deeply absorbed in the integration process of all the hospitals for the region and Hos as well. And the case at Toulouse has been singular, because the necessity of adapting to new times requires a new plan, even to the needs of the region's health. And on the basis of this planning, it is necessary that there should be commitments between the Jestzad Party of the Euric and the PSOE government. It is clear that we, the chief physician of health, have made this Chamber's commitment, and upon what ground it rests: so much he had to answer in the best way that public health structure or public hospital would have a public character for the health needs of the people of Toulouse. And that's the idea that we wanted to get in our initial full-time correction. I shall not repeat again what this correction consists, which Mrs. Corcuera herself has explained, but it is true that we have attempted to agree with a middle course. It can't be this time. I thank him for the tone he used to use for the River Iriarte. And, well, the constructive position, at least... I think that's where we're going to get this attitude, and we're going to try to get the deal. But, well, I'd like to explain a little to you why it couldn't be agreed in this case. Well, as we have said, for us, and as you have received it in your medium, EsIa is public to us. The presence of eloquence does not mean that he has lost the public character, but there is one peculiarity; There's an agreement with a private clinic, which doesn't mean that it's not a public public in Toulouse, or the health system of health at Eascal, Toulouse. In education we have several examples of this kind; in the educational system there are frequent contractors. And, well, that doesn't say euscal is not a public education system in that case.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u38	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u39	Then even the future of the clinic concerns us, and it concerns us, and a great deal. And we believe that Covenant cannot be suspended from one day to another; much lesse, in the condition we are in, in this condition of plague. Besides, we believe that even after we've done the new hospital, even after the new infrastructure, we must go on working with Kholini at Assuncio. We think these substructures are gonna be supplemental. And the new planning will lead to the recovery of health services, but, as we believe, no one can be excluded.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u40	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u41	Well, then I'll go on for the second round, and I'll explain why we couldn't make this up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u42	That's it. Thank you. A group that hasn't run any corrections. Does the missile have a word? No? Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, good morning again. Well, this theme isn't new. We have discussed this legislature several times, and not only discussed it, but have had occasion to know so many points of view in the legislature, and have several instances, to know what certain collective or mayoral organisms or organisms here appeared, and what they thought of this subject. As Mr. Hernández mentioned, I think we have always maintained the argument, and thus we have said, when we have spoken of this subject, that we are speaking of a standard, especially of a pattern: a perfectly public pattern, or, even if the service be public, the use of the formula of the treatment. And here it is clear that some groups do not agree with this formula. We have not, in this case, shown any correction, because in the last debates we have come to the agreements with the Jeltist Party and the Socialist Party, and in the last period of the legislature, 2018. And in this case, then, we think that the Jestric Party of the South and that the correction described by PSOE is in this line, and we will provide our help. Azkenean, well, bi alderdien artean, gauza bera defendatzen duten alderdien artean, bada, akordio beata helpu dira. Eta, akordio horretan, lehenengo partan, uste dut denok bat gatazela, zeren aipatzen baitu: "Let the Basque Government take the necessary measures to ensure a universal and quality public system for the population living in Toulouse, on equal terms with the rest of the people living in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. To this end, as in the rest of the regions, it is 100% public." Bai, well, zerbitzuak publikoa izan behar du, zeren, azkenean, zerbitzua Osakidetzak edo Osasun Sailak eskaintzen baitu; baina forma, kasu honetan, ez da Bakarrik publiko, because it is agreed with the Clinic The Assumption the provision of some health services in this region, which, as has been said here, is the provision of all services. Therefore, there is a concert, from a specific agreement, with the La Asunción Clinic of Toulouse, whose owner is the Inviza company since 2011. And, well, the current convention ends on November 15... No, it was signed, formalized, rather, on November 15, 2016, and will expire in five years. We do believe that public-private collaboration is good. And here you provide a service that is public, but through the formula of the concert. Well, with regard to the compromise amendment I was mentioning earlier, the objective of the groups that have signed this compromise amendment is very clear; they have agreed in their positions. And, in the end, they agree in the model, absolutely, that Osakidetza's way of providing service has to be fully public. We believe that, wherever possible, and where it is beneficial for citizens, forms of collaboration can be established between the public and the private, without prejudice to the fact that the service provided is obviously public, but under the formula – as I said – of the concert. And there is also a convention, and obviously there are provisions, there are specific provisions in a convention that have to be complied with, and on the part of parties; if one of the parties is not complied with, then, obviously, that is denunciable. On the other hand, it is already requested that the foundations be built or laid for the construction of a public hospital in this region. And it is requested that, in particular, a departure be collected already, or that the walk already be specified towards the construction of a public hospital in the region of Tolosaldea. We, in that sense, believe that the proposal of the Basque Nationalist Party is more correct; it is in line with the pronouncements of this House and the agreements we have reached, as the last one we had in 2018. And, in that sense, well, we therefore support that all those measures can continue to be taken to ensure that people living in this area have universal, quality health care, and under the same conditions not only as the rest of the Gipuzkoa OSI, but also as the rest of the OSI of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country; and that this functional plan be drawn up, which will give concrete expression to the kind of public health resources, services and infrastructure that would be most appropriate to meet the assistance needs of the area. In the end, I think that what appears here in this correction corresponds to the attitude we have maintained. On the one hand, the crews that're in charge of a correction request to make sure that the necessary measures are needed for the needs of people who live in Toulouse to be able to get a decent attention and to guarantee it. And in another place, it's said that he's going to do a functional plan as soon as possible, and that's the plan to determine the resources, the services, the infrastructure... And, well, I think it's a good thing to have that functional plan before you make your decision. We will therefore support – as I said – the amendment of the groups supporting the Government, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. It is in line with the agreements that we have reached in this House on this issue: that we continue to ensure that the Tolosaldea region, the citizens, can receive adequate and quality care, under the same conditions as the rest of the Gipuzkoa regions and that the rest of the OSI of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country; and that this functional plan is drawn up, where we have a diagnosis of the situation, the assessment of the services and infrastructures that, if necessary, would be necessary. I also think it's a positive thing that... Another thing is that we will have to see when it is launched, and we will have to follow up the Basque Government on this issue, which is this specific high-resolution centre; that, also, if there are deficits in this region, they could be solved, or with such an infrastructure, some of the problems that may exist with regard to the attention of citizens in this area could also be solved. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u44	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. I'll be there any time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u45	Well, good morning, again. We all look like "El abulus cebollet," watching the past. And it's fine, but here, clearly, if we all do this evolution in view of the past, but today, if we're talking about this, it's because there's trouble. And these resolutions which were made in the past, we here place here on the table, because they have not had the consequences which they ought to have, and have not solved the commercial problems they had in their time. Then it is curious that we all mention the proposals made by the mayor in his time, but in the past eight years the mayors have insisted that the public service should be strengthened by public service, and that this has not happened. And the agreement and agreement signed by Inviza with Clinica from 2011, owing to the pressure of the people and operators, is not complete. And we are in a state of dysfunction, where Asuncio has taken some specialities, but has not taken others. So the situation has failed. The situation has to be given a solution. And in order to put an end to the situation, this is the time to establish future foundations, so that we may not be able to talk in 20 years, with Asuncion and the future Asuncion, if we sign a new concert contract with the sociator of health and whatever it is. Therefore, it is plain, that the discussion we intended to bring here today is founded on the public discussion, because it seems to us that the pattern of this private public model has failed, and that it is time for us to avoid falling into the same argument in the future, to have a system which is really public. And today we brought this subject here because it's obvious that it's a special situation in Toulouse. The foundation of this public standard we have in Toulouse is a private management, a hospital in reference to or refeferative, because the purpose of business is business. And that may be the legitimate end of the Monya businessman. The problem is, the public administration puts the means of making business itself. Eta nire lagun batek –honetan lanean urteak eta urteak daramatzan medikua bera – isaten duen bezala: "If Mr. Montoya is given 10 euros, then he will try to have three instead of two for the pocket; and that instead of seven, then if there can be six euros invested in health, then better, obviously". The problem is not that a person tries to do a health business; the problem is that the public administration allows it. Then we want to give this solution, and that's why we plan the entire ESI publication. In our ESI, there will be sanitary substructures, be sociomentary hospitals, that they may be local hospitals, public hospitals, such as other regions, no more and no less. And now, when we're talking about this, and now we're looking at the past, the moment is today, just like the last few years, when everyone in the region speaks about the public hospital, including Mayor of Toulouse, Mayor EAJ. It must be said that EAJ has Toulouse from 31 different townships. That's why I'm saying it's important to talk to the other councils too. But shortly ago, the mayors of Andoain, Laraul, and Berrobi, Exodus Hadad, and their Precinct, introduced their complaints to this state and to that of Cliniik in Asunius. So we have to provide a solution to the situation. That's clear. And let's not repeat the same mistakes that were made here in 20 years or 2011 and 2007. And let's not talk about this again in the future. Yes, because of the popular feeling, we're all talking about the public hospital, looking at the functional plan you're presenting today. All right, all right, all right, all right. Let's not make a problem with Asunción in the future. Let's not sign another contract, and let's not have a private clinic in ESI again. Let's not make that mistake. Let us therefore turn to the north side, and turn to the future, and make our decisions to-day. And the decision is clear: To have a sanitary and sanitary substructure, which will be public at 100%, as in the Tolos, like in all other parts of the Basque Country, no less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u46	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez must not speak. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Corcuera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u47	Yeah. Thank you, President. And briefly. Mr. Iriarte said, "We look like Grandpa onion." But it's true. We've all lived, I've lived the El Pilar Clinic, I've lived the La Asunción Clinic. I have unfortunately had to go to the El Pilar Clinic in my own body. But we are talking about times when there was no universal and free health for everyone. Unfortunately, I had to go to a private center because it wasn't offered by public health. Good. Concretely on what really matters, I think it must be made very clear that the current model may be out of date. I don't say no. But the current model is determined by the decision taken by this Basque Parliament, when in 2008 it decided that the system had to be mixed. That decision is made here, Mr. Iriarte, whether we like it or not. And it was adopted and developed later with the creation of the OSI. Another thing is that the contract was not sufficiently controlled. There may be multiple views on this. But what can't be left in evidence is that this no longer works in any way. No, because what we were trying to do was take advantage of all the resources offered to us in the region from the very beginning. Because there was no chance of generating resources exclusively with public funding to make a hospital back then. And there hasn't been over time, there hasn't been, there wasn't, and we've tried to manage effectively or efficiently. Everything is always likely to improve, of course. But we cannot forget in this debate that there has also been a strategy by Bildu and Bildu's predecessors on the subject of the La Asunción Clinic. From the minute one in which this Parliament adopts that third option to the plan of the Basque Government through Mr Bengoa's team as Health and Consumer Adviser at the time, from the minute one of that decision-making, the strategy of the left abertzale in the region of Tolosaldea was to throw the mixed system into waste, to forget about the subject of the convention, and it has been a crusade against that mixed system. That, to make it clear. Secondly, how can we fail to value universal, free and quality public health in the region of Tolosaldea and throughout Euskadi? How can I not value that? How to make a future of that in the face of needs? We're talking about the year 2008. How can we not think that there has been progress, that there have been more needs, that there are also more resources of a technological type, of a type of response in the health field? And how can we not think that today we are also, as a result of this pandemic, thinking that where we have to invest is in the socio-health field, which is also in the government agreement signed by the Basque socialists and the Basque nationalists? Of course, this social and health care needs to be strengthened; hence there is also a commitment that the counsellor explained when she told us about the department's strategic lines and the strategic framework. There was talk of this new direction of social and health care. That is the future, and of course we have to take it into account, and the functional plan will take it into account, how not, how not! Because we would be wasting time and money if we were not able to see what resources are needed to meet the needs that are being raised. But let us not forget who is responsible, and let us not forget to determine what responsibilities we each have. Because I believe that here you are trying to confuse the responsibility of the institutional agents of the area, of the mayors and mayors of the Tolosaldea region. I think he's trying to go beyond what his skills are. I believe that there is a real commitment on the part of the Department of Health to collaborate with all those structures that will lead to this implementation, once the functional plan is determined and has been explained to see what is the best way and what is the location of this public hospital and the centers that were needed for this – let's say – social health care to be carried out. But let us not forget that the responsibility for the health issue lies with the Basque Government today in Basque. Let us not forget that today the socio-health care of residences, etc., is in the hands of the outlaws, and also the municipalities have their intervention. Let's put everyone before their responsibility. I understand what it may be like for a mayor to come and tell him certain needs or lack of resources that citizenship sometimes poses, but let's put everyone a little in their place, because, if not, we will be mixing issues, and there will be no future, but neither for the Tolosaldea region nor for the rest of Euskadi. Let's put those who are working to work with what we are going to get out today, which could have been something else, but you have preferred a strategy that you have been carrying out for a long time, and not that little step later that the Basque nationalists and socialists offered you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u49	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Now since I couldn't finish it, I think it's important to explain why we couldn't accept the medium that you've agreed to. And, you see, there is a confusion about the public ESI and the private clinic in Asuncia about concepts. But let us remember, after all, that the same health attack, the readiness itself, the sacristan of EssI, is the public, and that all the people have the same or the same health as any other region or ESI. And, as far as the future of the clinic is concerned, we really care about it. And we are also concerned about an attitude, the indefinators. It is very easy when a man is in opposition, when he has no responsibilities, when he has nothing to say, spoken, and his decisions have no consequences, and then he is satisfied with the way they are executed, what is done, what is to be followed by the means. We, therefore, believe, or at least ask those who have agreed on the medium, that it would be well to determine, in any way, how or what you propose, to be able to perform the integration of those who are now working at Asuncion, in Osacia, in order that no false spectivity should arise for any one. And we really believe that even after we've done the new hospital, we'll have to go on working with Asuncion. That's what reality requires. There's no other choice. We think it's both substructures, and the new planning will be the reorganization of health services. But, in our opinion, no one can be rejected, no one can be excluded, considering the number of persons who work there. That's why we think it's serious. We really demand a definite and profound planning. And in that sense, well, it is plain: The health authorities and the responsibilities belong to the Medical Department, which belongs to the Basque Medical Department. It's up to him to plan. But this does not mean that the opinions and contributions of the other institutions, the representatives of the townships, or operators of the townships, will not be heard. All these must be worked out in the work of planning. But we believe that we ought to be united, all the institutions in common, but within the limits of their jurisdictions, and especially by means of means of their co-operation. We can't handle anything new. In like manner, we believe, we believe, at least, that it belongs to the City of Toulouse, and that we think Toulouse is the best place, the best place for that public hospital and sub-favory, which belongs to the Council of Toulouse, to decide where it will be with the Medical Department. Toulouse is the largest town in the region. It is true; it will be a coincidence, I know, but it will be: The mayor is the EAJ, and it's a coincidence that he's the biggest town in Toulouse. And, well, so far, there's been the clinic, the hospital. And, well, we think he should stay there. Now the root, or the poles, or the seeds, are put together, and the seeds of this project are set. And besides, we see that this project has more protection than ever. For in the institutions which are represented by the people, at least in their institutions, it has a greater protection than ever. We've got the model of yesterday at the Gimpian Council. There was a sort of middle-way to be admitted here to-day, and he who could be a legislator of the Ripuarians admitted it. Today, the United States, organ with the supreme delegation of the Euskal Autonomy Eremia, will admit that. And, at least, we see that this project is stronger than ever. He's mentioned here... Madame Corcuera has mentioned the definition, the attitude, the attitude of which, according to some operators at Toulouse, we are apt to believe, for certain particular interests, there may be people. And what we mean is that we have made up our minds about it. The head physician of health confirmed this engagement in this Chamber. This commitment will be seen in the project of the next budgets, how it will take place and how the growth will take place, too much of their own, for this functional plan. And what this functional plan means is, before we finally decide once and for all, that analysis, the analysis of the situation, a study, reflection... Work it. Before you make a decision, work it out; and finally, design it, and decide which of the characters or circumstances this infrastructure will have. It's just that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u50	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u51	- Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u52	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. End of discussion, we're going to vote EH Collect and we're gonna have the middle-direction that Podemos-IU signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary, 48; the abstations are 0; white, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u53	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Then we'll vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociaists of Basque Sociialists in full-signed correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters of the league are 48; the contrary, 27; the abstations are 0; white, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u54	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "In the same manner as the parliamentary party of Podemos-IU together propose to promote EIBn to the rest. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mrs. Podemos-IU has the word, in order to present and defend the enterprise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u55	Well, thanks, ma'am. Thank you, also, to those who remain here, to hear. Well, today, as the international day of the Eucharese and that we're involved in Eucharium, I think it's time to bring here a parlamentary initiative that would serve the normalization of the euca. In fact, this initiative has something to do with the use of the EIB cradle. And I'd like to call attention in two elements: On the one hand I would have the mission of EITB to eucature, and on the other hand I would like to call it an atheist, in another element, and the position of an audience which ETB1 has; and these two, considering these two things, give me a little account of the reason of this proposition. If we hold the first to the mission of the ionEIB, as soon as we look at the law that created the organization, this law says that it is to promote the euca and euscal culture, helping it in the process of normalization of language. That's one of EIB's missions, one of them. But, well, if we come to reality, we can actually say that the EIB direction, as well as the budget issues, is a priority to ETB2. When EIB first came to be the one-sided chain of euphoric chains, then the use of euphoria, the use of normalization, was complete. But when the second chain was founded, and another language was introduced, the life of languages became confused or difficult. And, in the course of recent years, if it be true that some steps have been taken to increase the use of the euphoria, we believe that it is not enough; that it is not enough to penetrate alone into the chain ETB2, or Radium Euscadin and such; and that the moment is, considering that our society is an eloquent society, and that the comprehension of the rest is greater and greater, and that it is a moment to increase its presence in these chains. If we look at the other element, i.e., if we look at ETB1's audience, it is really, according to the last data, enough to astonish and be feared. If we look at that time of the Panem, only %1 sees ETB1. So ETV will hardly fill his mission with such an audience levels. And what happens is that there is no information either from ETB or direction, why this is done, or a plan to turn it round. We think, then, that there is a great deal to be done there; there is much to be done, because it does not perform, and because it is useless to have a chain, if it is not to be heard afterwards. It's hard to help language normalization process. There are, then, things to do, e.g. ETB1, in the chains of equiscan, there is there to work there, but in the others also, and also in the ETB2 chain. And how? The use of the eucalyptus, and the published use of it, were much more natural. There are several instruments for that. And one of these is, for example, to enter subtitles, as in places where two or more official languages are. Besides, we believe that's a demand for society itself. And if we look at some conclusions that came into the Euscal Sociemeter of the media in 2018, we can see that more than 60% of the time it was planned to make a statement and put the subtitles on it, it was very well or well; and ETB2 would give the original film with eucalyptic subtitles, even 60% would appreciate it well or well. This, too, is the case with the people, as well as society, in favor of such steps. So this is the initiative we bring here today. I'd like to thank the teams, who'll put forward this initiative, which they'll set up for consent and restore. I thank you, and I hope, too, that you take care of the CEOs of the ETV, to consider the things that are planned here. It is in the end to promote progressive use of support by pushing subtitles in all the intermediates and formats of EIB, as pedagogical tools; and to complete the necessary reforms which will maintain and confirm the public service, and enable all digital content to be available in that language. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u56	Thank you, madam. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto... It's your word, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u57	Good morning, again, everyone. Today we are again discussing an absolutely ideological issue, a topic that has to do with the direct indoctrination of the masses. And today we are talking again about linguistic imposition and social manipulation. A subject that has already been worked on many times in this house and that always has the support of the same, those who work for separation and breakup. To want to add more content in Basque to public television is aberrant, and it is because there are no reasons other than the sayings – the manipulation of the masses – to support such an assertion. In their world of color, they believe that by adding the most interesting contents to the canal in Basque, people will see it. And that's over. The times of watching football or ball games by ETB1 with the audio removed and the radio on are a bad memory of the past. Now, given the great offer that exists in the world of audiovisual entertainment, people directly switch channels. Try to put, for example, The Conqueror of the End of the World on ETB1; you will see how quickly you end the program. It hurts them to admit that the Basques are not so different, that there is no differential fact, that Spanish is our majority language. And it is not because of a persecution of the Basque, but because of the nature and development of the languages themselves throughout history. The barren attempt to grow a tongue by squandering on public television, with which it is falling, seems to me to be an exercise of terrible irresponsibility. But, careful, it's not something we made up in Vox. An important hearing follow-up firm certifies that in October 2020 EITB had the following hearings: ETB2, 9.6%, i.e. 0.2% more than the previous month. It is also, in fact, the top 5 most viewed autonomics, occupying exactly the number four position. ETB1, 1.9%, 0.2% less, and, in addition, with an audience level close to the residual. ETB4, 0.7%, and ETB3, 0.3%, both losing audience within what was already seen; absolutely no one saw them, and still no one saw them. The most expensive autonomous channel per inhabitant, that is, Basque public television, cannot be allowed this data. While ETB2's are remarkable, the rest are more of a fourth-row channel. If we have a channel that works, why not promote it? Does it make sense to empower those who know themselves to be ruinous? The question is rhetorical, because, when they want to defame and manipulate, arriving far away, they do it from the ETB2 and in Spanish, as has become clear in that infamous 360o program. Another curious fact. EITB has organized two televised debates: first, one in Basque, which saw an average of 8,000 spectators, 1.5% share; the second, in Spanish, which reached 276,000 viewers, 11.1% share and which was also trending on Twitter. You value the data. Stop using EITB as a propaganda tool, and let's make it a respectable channel. He has great professionals and resources, but he has enough politicians. Another model of television is possible, without politicians in charge, without Basque quotas, without social manipulation; a television, in short, which, like many other things in our region, is Spain's envy and not the manipulation tool. In short, since Vox we will vote no, because, with which it is falling, Euskadi cannot afford to waste its resources on pilgrims' ideas that have no bearing on and that, in addition, we pay all the taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u58	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u59	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Egun on. Good. Today's a big day. We celebrate San Francisco Javier. We all have a Javier near us: or a son, or a nephew, a cousin, a brother, or one of us. I mean, what a happiness. And it's also important today because it's Basque day. What do we have to say about the Basque? What he's done, what he's doing and who's gonna make a good couple with the Spanish, and for a long time. I mean, congratulations to the Basque too. With regard to the initiative presented by Mrs Gorrotxategi, we understand that there must be at this time, as is the public body Radio Television Basque EITB, there must be a prior consideration. In other words, ETB should focus. In what, for example? It must focus on compliance with the principles that the law governing the entity gives it, from which ETB has gradually moved away; it must focus on compliance with those principles that I will then recall. And work is also needed on the comprehensive reform of the body, in the sense that something does not work well, and that many things are needed: changes are needed, modernisation is necessary, a lost balance is needed, as this Parliament has also acknowledged, and in what has been put to work in the previous parliamentary term. In order to improve EITB in every sense, there has to be a deep reflection; there has to be an evaluation, which has not yet occurred. Under normal conditions, Mrs Gorrotxategi, your initiative and the transaction would be more or less fine. They would be consumable; they would be part of the professional, cultural, legal development of a public body for informational and cultural purposes, which would be normal in relation to the things you pose. But something has to be done before, in relation to the issues to which I referred earlier: focusing on the founding principles and also focusing on that pending comprehensive reform. EITB has not been well managed. EITB has been politically and informationally unbalanced, generating a bottomless well, generating a black hole that absorbs all the resources at its disposal in a very inefficient way. And that requires another orientation and another redemption. My group, the People's Party-Citizens, has focused on an amendment that wants to overcome the imbalances, the difficulties before; of course, the purpose you are pursuing. Difficulties that today have become structural deficiencies of the public body, which must be corrected to then build on them, to then build factors of communication, information, cultural factors, programming – for what you are interested in – but, first, we must do that previous work that remains pending in relation to EITB. ETB must be brought closer to the citizenry. This must happen through interest, of course, and cultural and informational competence, not in the issues on which it is currently taking place, which is in the imbalance and lack of neutrality; that is, in those issues it will not be as EITB continues to make progress, not even in the cultural factors or in the factors promoting Basque, not even in those. It cannot be, that is, to have poor management, poor management, every day more chaotic – that is, taking advantage of billions of euros in public permanently in a bottomless well – and not having results. That reflection must be done before, to do the things that you propose to enhance an extensive and varied audiovisual offer in Basque, the dialectal question, the fact of promoting progressive use, the fact of encouraging a use of Basque in relation to how to do so, and making digital content accessible. All these issues need something previous; they need a public body, a well-functioning ITBE, well-managed, capable of overcoming these structural damage and structural deficiencies and difficulties. Of course, today, the EITB presentation card is that in the aspect of information, in the aspect of its connection with citizens and the population in this country as a public entity, as an entity, as an agency, as a public service institution in that situation. I have to say that our whole amendment is in the sense of two points, which are also prior to the issues you raise as a development. In other words, the first is "the Basque Parliament urges the management of EITB and the new board of directors of the entity to comply with the principles expressed in article 3 of Law 5/1982 on the creation of the public entity Basque Radio Television, and to address a redimension, a rationalization of the public entity on its television channels". We talk about it because the principles are very clear, and many of them have been lost in the public body. We talk about the principles that the public-owned social media must have, which are objectivity, veracity and impartiality in the information. Many citizens do not see EITB as objective, truthful and impartial in its information; they do not see it and have denounced it. That is, that the distinction and separation between information and opinion is what has to be carried by ETB as a principle, and many citizens know that the differentiation between opinion and information already ceases to exist in many programmes, in many EITB information. That is, those principles are not being respected. Respect for cultural, linguistic principles in the defence of the Constitution and the Statute... We know that many programmes go directly against the flotation line of the Constitution and the Statute. That is, that the principles of EITB are also not respected there, respect for all rights recognized in the Constitution and the Statute: the right to honour, to fame, to people, to image. We have already seen how EITB uses programmes to defame, to slander, to insult State institutions; that is, that the principles are not respected. The first thing to do to promote EITB is to comply with the principles of its law; that, first of all. Secondly, as a second point of the amendment, which is what this Parliament decided in the previous parliamentary term: "It will also take the appropriate steps in the Parliamentary Committee for the Control of EITB to resume immediately in the House the work of the paper established for the comprehensive reform of EITB which was suspended at the end of the last parliamentary term". It is very important to make that reflection, that evaluation in relation to ETB; to recognize that the principles of EITB, the principles that are stated in that law of 82 – 40 years ago that law was made – are not complied with. Well, well, it's gone in peius, to the detriment, of course, of quality. In other words, these two issues are fundamental: that the principles of the law be respected, that the law be reorganized and reoriented and that the institution be fully reformed. And then, of course, your initiative will make full sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u60	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u61	Thank you, Madam President. And good morning to everyone today, International Vascuence Day. I want to ask you all a question: How many of you have seen the mouths of the sands of ETB1 miniseri? No answer, of course. Someone saw it, look at it. Patria, too, which is not only blonde, I'm glad. There's no need to answer, but a simple calculation can be made. Since we are able to speak of Euskuke we are all incapable of doing so, only 5% consumes eucalypædible content according to the report of the Euskal Communciations. We're 75 congressmen, even though we're not all here today, so, according to my calculations, a couple of our friends have seen the mouths of the sand. And that's the tragedy of an EITB. It's a very good series, very high, almost of very high quality, which has made us proud of the Basque People, made of eucature, but universal in the same way. Our country stands in readiness because it shows that there is talent here and a whole sector with people prepared: Directors, actors, writers, good technicians. We have a creative situation, we're missing people from watching the eucalyptic television. The problem, therefore, is not lacking in talent; the problem is that the ETB1 audience has been lost every year, although, paradoxically, there have been more and more people who understand and talk about it. We won't begin to explain why that happened. To prevent this, what is to be done to encourage the rest of the proposition, as Podemos has brought it here together. In the former legislation, in another proposition, as described by Podemos, we obtained a middle course in the same direction. And if you compare them both, the previous one was much better, more complete than you have shown. I think it's time for the law to go back. I mean, what's EIB supposed to ask? After two years and a pandemy, still less than what we asked for two years ago? Should the Basque place be smaller than the EIB? Do we have to settle for a little less? The most extraordinary thing of this to-day, however, or the most unreasonable, is that he had received two years from EIB, and that he had gone farther. It's in this report. I don't know, in answer to this Chamber's request, EIB made this report about the work done in the normalization of the cradle and what to do. There are certain exact proposals received. And I don't know if you've read it or not, but it doesn't seem, or at least you haven't considered it. For this report, as has been said, goes far beyond what is received in the middle way which you have agreed to with the crews in the government. It must be done a great deal more, talking of the direction of EIB as yet. We don't agree with everything that comes in this report, but, on many points, we agree very well. The correction we've made for today is just a concretion of what we've proposed in this report. In other words, EITB, as it is received here, proposes that the programmes which are most attractive to the young public must be obtained each time. And this is very well thought to us; nay, seeing that thousands of children and young men have only one contact with the Basque, and that they have been deprived of it. And that's why we think it's so essential and important that EIB can do the work that EIB can do, to normalize among children and young people, and, by the way, to expand the habit of consume the eucaments as a long-term strategy, because the children are the masters of tomorrow. So we have asked to create a special unit addressed to children and young men, to produce educational and attractive contents, to produce EIB program managers, to visual producers, and to have the contents of education. In the direction in which ETB proposes it, it is a specific request, a coherent. But let's go on with the report. We were both surprised when we read about the budgets. On these points, it's obvious in this report, in our opinion. It shows that in 2009, EITB got almost 140 million scholarships. Ten years later, in 2019, 130; that is 13 million less (sic). EIB's direction, that is, love Iturbe's board, because this report is optional, thinks that it needs to go up 25% in the next program agreement, that is, it needs 28 million euros more to push EIB to the rescue. And that's not what the Basque People are like, and Iturbe says that he's been the director of EIB and now he'll be the director of the Wonder Force in Miramon. And he thinks it's not 5.5, not 15, not 20, but 25% that the budget of EITB, the Eusco fiction, so we can encourage entertainment. And you know what it's worth to make sand mouths a minisisin'? I have no idea, but the head of that series, Coldo Alcommande, says that half of the part of Patria series, the mouths of sand could be made by four. And that's the key: ETV1 needs a higher budget if it wants to increase and improve its production. We can ask ETB what we want here, but if there's not enough competition in the budget, we have a party. And will it be? That's the question. Are the budgets going to be cohere with this government team today, or is it going to be a postponse today? The ETB will present her budgets in the Administration Council in the next few days, and this is where the Chamber comes in with the budget funding of the government. We shall see here what will really exists, what commitment, for it is for the eulogy, but that is not for free. That's what the EIB manager knows. And here we must confess that ETB, in the last few months, is struggling to produce euphora content. There's been a kind of phrenesis like that, and since the pandemia began, we've produced eight new attempts. And at least we can't remember the size of our efforts. That shows EIB that he has the ability to produce all kinds of sessions with eucalyptus. Now what you have agreed to this day, we believe that what you have agreed to do is very short. The first point is very generic. It's okay, but it doesn't suppose any progress, just confirms the ETV mission itself. Second point, two elements. As for the subtitles, you ask to do as much as you can, but that's not a matter of measure, but of keeping the law; almost all programming must be written according to the law of 2010 Irish. But even for that, we need budget. As for the harmonic ambiguity, so is the end of it. I'm not a sociolingist, but in a digestive state there is a hegemonic language, and another is diminished; And we're not the exception. And at the third point, you ask to continue with the reforms, and, if you know what reform... The only reform that has begun at the moment is the fusion of EIB's Socitae, and it has already come. So, beyond today, it's time to get to action from the legs, with a common strategy and a clear mission. And instead of filling our mouth with sand, let us fill EITB sand with fiction like mouths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u63	Ladies' chief, chief of departments, good noon to all. Today is a good day for talking about the steps our people are about to develop on the eucalyptic day. Therefore, my first words will be to confirm the commitment to the eucalyptic eussa. We have a long way ahead to take a lot of strides, but as we have always done, my team will always be ready to take up the political and social decisions needed for the eucalyptus. We've always been in the first row, and we'll go on in the future, the rest of us all. ETB in its history has been excellent contributions to the normalization of the eucalyptus. Undoubtedly the most prominent contribution was the task of extending the use of the eucalyptus. Thus, since his first step had taken him out of the formal use of the eucalyptic surroundings, he launched him into a muddy environment. It was also a fundamental contribution to the passive eloquent; that is to say, a second language, in order that those who do not yet speak should endeavour to make it their last step. We must also consider the role of EITB in the soliding and socialization of the verbal standard of the united eucalyptus. We've rarely known the important paper that has improved the quality of the ecocipation. We should be able to entwin Mea culpa; most of the time, when we bring it to this Chamber of EIB, it is to place it in the eye of the hurricane; it is true, for reasons which have generally been well argued, but we have never been able to confess the historical paper of the Basque. Let these words serve to burn all the people who have given their knowledge to attain it. The oral euskera, the best transmission belt on the way to socialization in an euskaldun environment, would not be the same if it had not been for the important role played by EITB in improving its quality. Our language owes much to the great work done during these almost 40 years by a wide staff that found itself with the need to make the euskera a tool that would be able to transmit, inform and entertain. We owe the whole body the foundation of a generation of journalists who have decided to use our language to communicate. So these words are worth recognizing to the whole staff. The report on the introductions that EIB has made to the normalization of euscal in society provides an illuminating panorama. We may like conclusions less or more, but what remains out of discussion is the clear and complete facts that appear in it. As I say, the data are clear and decisive. Asked Basque citizenship about its preference for the use of Basque and Spanish, 84% were in favour of maintaining the current division of one channel into Basque, ETB1, and another into Spanish, ETB2. Only 5% disagreed with this measure. The report – I insist – is also enlightening as to the needs that the entity has to face in the coming years, which I believe is a bit the key to the debate. We cannot fall into the simplistic and simplifying temptation in extremes to draw a straight line that attempts to unite the sociolinguistic reality of our people with the evolution of audiences. This formula completely ignores changes in consumption behaviour, both on radio and on television. EITB, like all televisions and radios worldwide, faces a changing future that, whether we like it or not, is already knocking at our door. The challenge of EITB before him, as has been said several times in this chamber, is truly complex and profound. The world's trade of communication is deep in a change, and EITB hasn't been out of that storm. I'll give you some facts. Eustate says that those who speak of eussa are under 70% of the age of 44. At the same time, this group of young people, according to the song Media research, is only 24% of radio and TV consumption. Possibly, as the report cites, the future has to go by improving interactive audiovisual content, as the approach to the future must be not so much on the basis of channels as the creation of content for cross-media distribution. With these words, what I intend to do is to outline at a minimum the context in which, in our view, this debate must take place. We can't keep thinking about two-channel code. The future begins to work on the idea of products. And that's where, in those products, we'll have to fix our effort to boost the use of euskera. EITB hasn't been quiet lately. In the year 2013 they began to make a visible eucalogy in the Spanish products, offering no return of expressions and testimony in this language. This step is of great importance. He has represented and distinguished the eloquence of our society, and, on the other hand, insists on the social prestige of language. We'll have to go deeper on that road. Another great step, without doubt, called to have its importance in the future, is that of the subtitles. The studies carried out in this regard are very enlightening as to the great pedagogical value of this tool in the learning of any language. Let us walk these paths, promoting the progressive use of euskera in all the means and formats of EITB, favoring a harmonious bilingualism and the contact of all people with both languages. As has happened several times lately, when we talk of EITB, we end up talking about the work done in the law that has passed. It's normal, because it was a long, productive job. The result showed us that we're capable of success. Let's keep going that way. The consequences are not the end of the road. In this law, by the light of these conclusions, we must make necessary reforms; Public EIB Reference, known as the modern, objective, competitive, effective, adapted to the demands of society, will be the fundamental source of answering the social and spreading the use of self-religious reality. Let us follow the path begun in the previous legislature. Let us build, using the consensus reached in the paper for the reform of the entity, a new solid and lasting building. Let us make opportunities the challenges facing us in the future. Let us not lose the train of the necessary reforms to consolidate the EITB as a public, audiovisual, modern, objective, competitive, efficient reference, adapted to the new demands of the citizenry, and that has as one of its objectives to meet the sociolinguistic reality of Euskadi and to promote the normalization of the use of the Basque language. That must be our greatest discussion. We can't split the debate, they're not independent parts. The future role which EIB ought to play at the opening of the cradle cannot be removed from the future we desire for her. We can't make a tool for political play from each item of the discussion. We cannot fragment the debate, he said. The future role that EITB has to play in the diffusion of Basque cannot be taken from the future we want for the entity. Trying to separate each element from such an important debate, all you get is to introduce noise into it. We cannot make every element of the debate a tool for political play. We cannot reduce the debate to a simple caricature with simplifying traces that only seem to look for political revenue in the short or very short term. Let us not lose ourselves in a divided dispute. No one will question EIB's leading role in the opening of the cradle for years to come. I think we all have that. But that's not the only challenge we have on our radios and TVs: we must make the necessary reforms which will maintain and maintain the public service, and enable all the digital content to be available in order to promote the use of resistance. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u64	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, good days to all. This is the international Basque day, we have a pretty good chance to have a nice discussion about our language today. But I'd like to send these people a hug from here, even today, on the international day of independence. EITB was born in 1982. He's going to be 38 this month. It must be said that the course has been long; the many, the challenges we had before us; the obvious achievements, the exact achievements we obtained, the ends we established. And among these ends, perhaps, we may say that it was perhaps the most important thing to encourage them to resist, to help them in the knowledge of our language, and even to defend their use. And we can say today, on the international day of the 2020 Euskka, that if we look back and do a study, the road has been productive. We can also say that it was successful. This is how he accepts the same groups which have introduced the initiative in the explanation. On the one hand it explains that our chains have made room for many homes in this country. He admits, on the other hand, that the state of knowledge of euphora is sufficiently satisfied. In fact, the knowledge of rest has increased for the past few years. And we agree with that. We agree because we think the Basque Radio has been a very useful instrument and that it's still going on for all of this. It was a vital instrument. It may not have been a single instrument, but it's inevitable, and it's still going to be, because we still have a lot to do. In the original text of the proposer group, ETB is asked to issue film titles in Basque, series, documentaries, varied animation in Basque. And we understand that this is requested from the recognition of what is already being done, because we believe, from our group, that it can be said that the programming of EITB is rich and varied, and that, as far as the Basque is concerned, in recent months it is, moreover, particularly hopeful. Because we can also say that those programmes that have been mentioned today or those series that have been mentioned today are a very important step forward in getting the euskera to be in the homes of everyone. Those programs who study information and today have places to go: Nowadays, mouth to mouth, Hura you! The sport, ETBn, is a eucalyptic: Euskadian saelg games, handball, the Tour de France... Every day after dinner, culture has a place at EIB. As for Humorea, there's free laughter, DBH, little town, great hell. The fictional process has something to do with it: The mouths of sand or the Alardea. And, I think, it is worth mentioning that a program at ETB, programs in large waters, leads us always to reflection, and that is always to be appreciated. And I know them all because they give ETV and I'm the audience. Other contents I don't know so well, such as the ones I've been assigned to for children. But I have to say that the children of my generation grew up with the Club Always, the Shin-chan and the Basque Doramon. At present they are not given, but others, whatever they may be, are also preserved. Sometimes, you see, groups introduce initiatives with a kind of obscure intention. We see in this law several times the proposals which have been born only for criticism. I must admit that didn't happen today. I think it's been a good idea, and also a constructive position. And in that sense, I must thank you and I want to thank you for the proposed team. But it does not often imply that we ought to agree in all points with good intention, that we ought to unite with all that is proposed. And that's why we saw a few points that we didn't agree with, and we proposed to change. And it has been the consequence of this that we have obtained the medium, in which we have shown what we have left to ourselves, and which we have not agreed. And in that sense, I want to thank Podemos and above all Gustavo Angulo for his attitude. And what's the fund of the media we've agreed on? Well, we don't think the question should be as much how we promote euskera in ETB, but how we promote euskera through EITB. And the difference between these two questions lies especially in two points: on the one hand, we believe that public television is not an end in itself. The objective of ETB should not only be to promote the euskera of doors in the programming; the challenge facing EITB should lead it to understand how, to the extent that EITB is a means, a very interesting tool to respond to the objectives we have as a country, can help Basque citizens to know our language and, above all, to use it. On the other hand, the original initiative talked at all times about the two main ETB chains. In this sense, we wanted to point out that ETB is not just ETB1 and ETB2, that there are other thematic chains that also play a very important role. Eta, zentzu horretan, nabarmendu nahi dugu, batez ére, ETB3k umeekiko jokatzen duen papera. In addition, we wanted to say that EITB is not only ETB; EITB are also radios, it is also the digital platform, EITB are also social networks, because the way to consume audiovisual content has changed, and we need to know how to adapt to it. Younger generations, who are especially the ones who can change habits – also with regard to the use of language – have completely changed the way they consume that audiovisual content, and, either we know how to adapt, or we have little to do. And we did not agree with the initial proposal to intercalate the contents between ETB1 and ETB2, and that is why we proposed to change it. And we did not agree, first, because we understand that it is not a problem of command: most people in this country, in Euskadi, have ETB1 and ETB2 tunes in the first positions; they know where they have each channel, what each channel offers and which one they have to go to access according to what content. Secondly, because the profile of people who continue to consume television in traditional format for a generational, sociological issue, is a profile of people who want certainty, and we understand that if we are introducing uncertainty to them, it will not be good for them or, consequently, for EITB. And thirdly, I think we should look at the social situation as well. Unfortunately, there are many people in this country who don't make a stand, and, unfortunately, it affects the people around them. Look, I'll give you an example. Four people live in a house, and three of these four people make their way. One, the only one, doesn't make a fuss. It is very difficult, in that case, to satisfy the eucalyptic contents when they are all present. And we must admit that many of the contents made by the ETV or telebist in general are consumed in the family. And, finally, I was talking about the importance of impact, that it has an impact on the content that is generated, but, today, that a content has an impact is not limited only to the audience; today, we have to explore different formats and possibilities: social networks, Instagram, Youtube... They are very important channels of influence among young people, and we have to understand what they want and adapt to it, without reducing ourselves to whether a program has been broadcast on ETB1 or ETB2. And in that sense, I'd like to give you an example. How many of you have seen the free laughter of ETB1 from the session a monologue, a video, in which she, in the empty cradle, is accused of discrimination that women suffer? Well, that video was directly seen by very few people at ETV1. But that video, today, has more than 200,000 displays in Instagram. I think that's the way people want to know and give it to them, find out where they are and go to them. We can also try the opposite. We can try to think, or we can continue to think that young people are ready to see sessions with endless advertisements, and to wait a week between one chapter and the other. Well, we can continue to think about that, but I'm going to make it to you. it will be useless.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u66	Thank you, Mr. Díez. Passing on the answering shift, the representative of the Podemos-IU team together. Ma'am, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u67	Thank you, ma'am. I find it extremely simple, but very unwise, to destroy from a pen the certainties that the wisdom of sociolinguistics brings us after years of research. In the societies in which there is linguistic concurrence, one language is strong, the other language is weaker, and before that, and if we think about the role of the public authorities and the administration, there are two possibilities: one is laissez faire, laissez passer, there they are composed, and another is intervention. If we start from the premise that we want to protect, that we love our cultural and linguistic heritage, the only possibility, the only sensible possibility is to intervene, is to strengthen the language that is in a minority situation. It was said that when we talked about EITB, this issue we raised with our initiative is not a priority. What happens is that the object of this initiative is not, precisely, to fix the problems of EITB; the object of this initiative has to do with improving, with achieving linguistic normalization, with the normalization of Basque through EITB, which is one of the ways in which we can achieve this objective. Therefore, the problems of EITB, which has them, remain out of our focus, but what we claim, the object of this initiative is not EITB, but Euskera through EITB. In the same way, we have also been told that linguistic normalization, that is, that favor to the Basque through EITB has much more chance of doing so. And it's also true, it's true. That's why I did... I've referred them to them now, when I spoke to them, I've put reference to the budget, and it's true: If we look at the budget, it's so much smaller that it's offered to ETB1... Besides, I said if we look at the budget and the parrill, we're pretty curious about the ETB1 chain. So there's more to do. Of course there is more to be done, and this initiative does not exhaust the subject; But on the other hand, I'd like to remark that it's worth while doing so today, and I think it's worth while to be able to achieve a minimum harmony in this organization and take a few positive steps. In other words, this does not exhaust the subject, it does not solve all things, but it takes a step for the normalization of the cusss. And it is in these two things mentioned, if we look at digital contents and see what can be accomplished with subtitles. The object, then, is not ETB; the object is escay. It's not exhausted with the protection given to the eTB in this enterprise, but we think it's a step forward, and that's why it's worth it. And I will be grateful to the political powers which have appeared in favor of being able to advance this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u68	Thank you, madam. Is the missile going to take the word? He mustn't speak. Popular-Citizens Tale. Yellow neighborhood, Bertatik.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u69	Yeah. Thank you, President. Pretty soon, from the seat. To defend the euskera well, in this case, and to defend it in EITB, and to defend the cultural or informative dimension that the euskera has, first it is necessary to fix EITB. That is why we have given it so much importance, yes, because, when a channel is not used to run the water because it is filled with things, then something must be done for the water to flow. Well, the same goes for EITB. For culture to flow, for information to flow for all alike, for neutrality and balance to flow, first you have to do things, because it is full of numbness. And that is also the fundamental element in favour of the Basque country. If the path is weak, if the promotion channel is weak, access to the cultural question, to the idiomatic question in this case, to the promotion of the euskera, is therefore damaged, impoverished and unbalanced. And that's what we don't want. That is why, first, we want to adopt a previous attitude, to fix what does not work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u70	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u71	Madam President. I'm just a member of the Socialist Group, Mr. Alonso, one thing. I think it must be explained, because the other day a colleague of yours said the same thing at the Control Committee, and it's not right at all. You said the consequences are not the end of the road, the consequences agreed on in the pomp. Yeah. Well, I have to tell you... I don't know if the transmission of information has been incorrect, but there's no consequence in EIB's ponciency. The president made a difference, and last year, December 10th, he sent us, and then he didn't make any phone calls for power again. And in the meantime, there can be no action here at all, and in February the President made an appeal for elections. So nothing was agreed on that form. There's only one person, the president, who proposes. Up there. That's all there is to it. And by the way, I mean, since you have concluded that this report of the consequences is ten consequences, in two folios simply. And, well, to say it simply doesn't mean it doesn't have depth. But in our opinion, there is no novelty in these ten consequences, no serious reformation is proposed; it is to perpetuate the eternal. For us, we see that there is re-formism about EIB, and we're not conformists, and we don't agree with that. We think there's been a lot of work in EITB's power in three years. We've been with a lot of experts, members of the process. There's a lot of hard work, and I think there might be a very strong basis for a real integrated reform. We, on the other hand, have made our own example with all the material we have received, and in this example there are several proposals, and above all an engagement, a strong engagement. We all know that we all agree that the media area is changing a lot. Our work is not for Hadad to tell us how this should be done; that is not for us. EIB has his professionals, and they know what to do. Our job is to get the mission right. And I think we should agree on that. And what you're talking about isn't right, because here, around that dictatorship, there's no agreement. We think that's what EditiB needs, and the budget, of course. And, well, the time for rumination has already passed, and I believe that the time has come to begin, and soon too, if not, EITB has it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u73	Yeah. Thank you. Well, I'll be brief, though that sometimes sounds a little threatening on this stand. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Diez of the Basque Nationalist Party and Mr Angulo of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita for the efforts we have made in recent days, because, in the end, we have reached an agreement. And I am of the opinion that, when you reach a transactional, when you reach an agreement, no one gives in; the mere fact that you have achieved something that is in common already enriches the agreement itself, and you have to look at it in positive. I thought I was coming to a debate about how to push the Basque through... – Elkarrekin's spokesman Podemos-Izquierda Unita also said – I thought it was coming to a debate on how to push the Basque through a concrete tool, which is EITB. What I have found here, at least in part of several of the speeches, is an amendment to the whole of EITB or, well, other totally different issues that had nothing to do with it, from my point of view. Maybe it's that I'm very orderly and very manic and I stick to the subject I'm asked to speak of. Because, if we have to talk about ETB – it is not the time, of course – but, whenever it has been necessary to get rigid and stand firm, because what was or was happening or the issues surrounding EITB were not or did not seem appropriate to us, the socialists have never shut up. In this very legislature we have had the opportunity to criticize and talk seriously about certain contents that the chain might have or had issued. But it is also true that, seeing the trajectory in these almost 40 years, we also have to recognize all the contributions that the entity has made, and, above all, and in this case, because it is the theme that it deals with, the contributions that it has made to the Basque, a Basque batua that in its oral form, of course, has been built in a fairly structured way thanks to having tools as it has been EITB. And then, in the end, one last very quick reflection. We cannot trap the lonely; that is, we cannot make a link – I said it before; I will insist on it again – we cannot make a direct link between sociolinguistic reality and the audience. No, no. It is that we live in a world of turbulence within what the media are, what the products are, what the channels are. The analysis has to be much deeper. And I believe that citizenship is asking us here to be mature enough to know that here there is a world that is changing and that reforms are needed. I don't know if that's the conclusion in the paper. What has become clear to me in this speech is a clear thing, and it is that we all have, or much of us have the will of two things, or the desire of two issues: first, we have to change EITB; we have to reform it. And the second, it is no longer the time of the sayings; it is the time of the facts. We'll see how it articulates. I imagine that – I insist – it is not the subject or the time now to talk about the most structural part of EITB, but, of course, I believe that is the will. And in that debate, which is what I was trying to say before, and in that debate is where we will have to integrate the necessary tools to know how we drive the euskera. Possibly – I said, and I insist again – we do not have to go back or we do not have to fall into the loop of the canals and the idea of the canals, because nowadays no one consumes... Or I have also said: those younger people of 44 years, where I just sit on the edge, we no longer consume television sitting in the living room of our house and throwing us three hours of sopeton. No, no. Well, let's pick and adjust. We need to be aware of this reality, because in those products that we will have to offer is where we will have to integrate the vision of the euskera impulse. And, without further ado, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u74	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians. Mr. Díez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, I would like to ask you to explain to us a little, after having analysed your amendment or at least to know what your amendment consisted of... Because, at the first point, you speak of "redimension and rationalisation of the entity in its channels", and you will recognize me that the term is ambiguous enough and not very concrete so that we are not very clear about what you are referring to. We can understand, on the one hand, that what you want is the same thing that was requested in the original text: that the content in Basque should be intertwined between the two channels, but I fear that is not so. I'm afraid what you want is what we understand you want: less investment, less structure and, ultimately, a weaker Basque public television radio. That's what you want. If that is the second point, I say to you: we do not agree. We disagree, and, moreover, it was not the point of the debate, it was not the point of the debate. We were talking, as you have already been told, about how to promote euskera well in ETB, and well through EITB. I therefore tell you what I say to you for the second point of your amendment: that you come to us to talk about the presentation, about the return to work. It seems very good to me, but it was not the point of the debate. We were talking about the euskera. So we're not surprised either. I have to tell you that we are not surprised that you, when it comes to EITB, are bringing up issues that have nothing to do with the point of the debate. Why? Because when it comes to health in this Parliament, you say, "No, money, EITB." When it comes to social services, you say, "No, money, EITB." We are talking about development cooperation, which you and I have ever touched, and you: "Money, EITB." It's just that you seem like the lords of Euskal Herria Bildu. The only thing, that they do it with the high speed train, and you do it with EITB, but the result is the same. And on the other hand, well, I want to tell Mrs. Aguirre something. There are certain parties who are sometimes accused of making a very good diagnosis, of examining the situation very well, but afterwards not knowing so much when the measures are to be proposed. I think today was the opposite of you. I think... I read the point you introduced me to, and I can agree. O sea, I can agree with what comes into it. We should be more specific, but I can agree. Gertatzen bath dena dazuek daukazuen abiapointua ez dela egia. Esaten duzue: "As the children are at home, they have lost contact with the euskera, because the centers are closed...". No, look, the centers aren't closed, the centers haven't been hotbeds of contagion, the kids aren't at home... It's okay, it's okay. Don't blink. Don't blink. Can I continue? No, no, but can I continue? Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u76	Jasone, Jasone. Quiet, please. Jasone, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u77	Children are not at home; children are in class. The centres have not been focal points of contagion; the centres are open. And, therefore, what you propose to us could be a good solution if that were so. Which, perhaps, you would like that to be so. In this strategy you have to draw a catastrophic scenario, perhaps you would like it. First, they'd say shut down; then, they'd say open up. But, well, that's not the case. That's not the case. And in conclusion, yes, I'd like to thank the congressmen of Podemos once more, even the Social Party. And no more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u78	Thank you, Mr. Díez. End of discussion, we're going to vote together with the half-correction signed by the Podemos-IU, Euskal Socialists and Eucabertarians. Mine on points. There's no problem voting for points, right? Isn't there a problem voting on points? How are they, mine? Ah! One by one. One by one. Okay. Well, then, we vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters are 68; the opponents are 0,0; Abstations, 7; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u79	So the first point is accepted. Next, we vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting were 43; 75; the supporters, 47; the contrary, 22; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u80	So the second point is accepted. And finally, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 0,0; 28; white, 0.1,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-03.u81	So the third point has also been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-four.
