ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I'm warning you that the 12th and 11 points have been withdrawn. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the staff of Jon Andon, the deputy and security department of the group, the law enforcement members of the United States, the result of the lack of regulating the health department's measures since the condition of alarm was over." Mr. Cuckoo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. In Euskadi, following the completion on 18 June 2020 of the phases envisaged in the plan for the transition to new normality, which in Euskadi we have organized around the plan Bizi Berri, the Department of Health of the Basque Government has been establishing the necessary preventive measures to deal with the health crisis caused by COVID-19. Thus, on the same day, 18 June 2020, the Department of Health came to establish initial measures and recommendations, albeit on the basis of its continuous monitoring and evaluation, in order to ensure their adaptation to the evolution of the epidemiological and health situation. These measures and recommendations have been modified in the light of developments in the health and epidemiological situation in Euskadi. The objective pursued by the measures and recommendations contained in the various orders issued by the Department of Health is to control transmission in areas that are currently the source of the most impact and risk epidemic outbreaks, and to control community transmission. The general practice of the Basque people is to obey the regulations. Yet the conducts which break the measures of the establishment are worthy of social censure, because they have exercised it directly on a precious property like health. We ask you, therefore, that as you are the head of security, and that with the police the measures taken by the authorities are fulfilled: What is the balance of data on regulatory violations of the health department from the end of the alarm? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u2	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. As you say well, Mr. Atucha, one of the principal reasons which concern the euscal society in these days, if it is not the master of all, is the same pandemy of COVID19; and this, in our health, in our economy, in our society, and even in our welfare, is produced and produced by the whole business. What's the use of saying that he's in love with the pandemy fight? On the side of the right and rights of each department. As far as the Security Department is concerned, it is our duty to be the companion of the Medical Department and the rules he gives to ensure public health that rules, on the one hand, are fulfilled and executed when they are not executed. And in this task, indeed, the bodies and police of Euskadi, Ertzaintza and local police, in the period from 18 June to yesterday, 15 October, have filed a total of 15,858 complaints of violations of public health standards. From a higher to a lower percentage, 74% of them, 11,729, for non-compliance with the mandatory use of the mask. 16.5 %, 2.619, for non-compliance with the requirements of public transport; 3.1 %, around 504, for non-compliance with the mask; 2.5 %, a total of 391, for smoking in public spaces; and 1.8 %, 286 in total, for non-compliance with the interpersonal distance required in the area of hospitality. The rest of the infringements have to do with less relevant matters. But, beyond the mere counting of police actions, the data that I have just provided, which are not, cannot be an end in itself, are useful and must be seen as a decisive contribution by the Department of Security and all the police resources of the Autonomous Community in the fight against the pandemic. And it is very eloquent and graphic for these purposes to be able to compare, analyze together, the curve of infractions and the curve of contagions. And it is not possible to draw one-sided conclusions from that analysis, but it is possible to verify several things. Above all, two: on the one hand, the important, transcendental role that effective compliance with public health standards that have been dictated by the health authority is aimed at effective control of the pandemic. And secondly, this comparison of both curves, of the breach curve and of the contact curve, also allows us to see the extraordinary dimension that the contagion curve could have if no one had tried to enforce the set of standards that have been dictated from the health area to ensure compliance with the requirements set out to prevent the transmission of the virus. So these are all police data. And this is the contribution of the Security Department in the last few months of combat with the pandemite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u4	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Second point on the subject list: "The question is, I'm thinking about the future of the Arkbanks, the Congressmen of the World of the World. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. To tell you the truth, if it were not the same as the rules, I would ask you today about the COVID with my last-day promotion, and with the precautions I think we ought to take. But on Friday I had to register the questions. So, I'm gonna tell you about the Arkbank, because I think this is a very important subject for this country too. From the fact that everything in the financial world is colonizing, and the financial world follows the words or half-words or silences of the Government with great care, I want to know why the Euskák would say now that it is not time for the Arkbanks to start a foundation. And therefore my exact question: when does the Government think there will be time to fussify, and what variable does it employ to say it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In answer, President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We said that the fusion is not necessary right now, yes. And it's based on the information you got from the Ark, and we've said it accordingly. However, the Arkbanks defends the same criterion. And when the trunk picked up the other strategic resolutions, just like the MRA MUDM got the pre-counties, even this time, and if it were the case, I'll make sure that's how it would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll see you soon, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u9	Thanks again. Mr. Urkullu, we are facing a difficult situation: A financial crisis, social, prevarication, differences, unemployment, a crisis that can't be postponed, and so on. And it's urgent to give answers. To give answers as a country, I think, in our opinion. And we don't have our own financial instruments. The chest may be the whole boundary of the banker's reign, and I shall repeat it, one of the rarest limits we have with all our frontiers. It is a solvent entity, which has to continue to acquire capital. And it must be a financial instrument at the service of this society, to guarantee the economy at the service of the people. And when the river sounds, water carries. And we are concerned about that "now it is not necessary" on the part of the Basque Government, because it opens the door to it at another time. And it's a real worry, because precedents, unfortunately, don't let us be optimistic. Not the dark process of turning savings into banks, on one side, but not even the events that happened in different companies. And let Euscalel do it, for example. The public check has been entirely lost, because the decisions that were deformed had been approved by them, or because they had been given a fracture. And the point is, in the end, we have neither company nor money. The Arkbank was the prime Basque stockist. And selling stocks, deliberately or involuntarily, he opened the gates to Zagon. The founding of the chest between Sabade and Sabadell may not work. Perhaps Sabadell is not the best novice now. But in 2019, and now around the Basques, and around the Arkbanks, there are also other leading men. We can mention Alantra, for instance, the famous name of Winter orbital orbit, ABC. Euscal is a bet for our own financial system in the government, a financial system. And strong and courageous steps to strengthen it. And inside it, not just, but in a special way, it's in the chest. We believe that though the structure and government of this day are those which we would not desire, yet it must continue to be a Basque institution. And we won't understand any more, nor will we accept it. The hand of the chest of the box was at the loss of the Euskaltels, the one of the World's Jeltzad Party, if you want to understand more clearly, and I'd like to make it clear that this town can't allow the Arkbank to be a Basque II. And I hope you hear so clearly from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irriart, as I said, we said that the fusion is not necessary at the moment because the Arkbanks said so. In his career, the Arkbank has won the credit in front of you and your society. He has the power to make such decisions, and has hitherto shown maturity. As I said. Considering this daily information, we should highlight three data. One: The trunk is secure of the rubber. As you know, he's a leader all over the United States. Two: Central European bank or European bank managers have made no comment to enter the Arkbanks during a fusion process. And three: The chest has been roots, it has good economic outcomes, and its strategy is approved. Like I said, he doesn't see the chance of his fuse at the moment. It is not for the Government to decide whether or not the merger of Kutxabank is appropriate, which is currently a decision to be taken by its management bodies and it is on the basis of its information that the Government has responded. Kutxabank informs the Government promptly. Your professional, responsible, serious and solvent management is recognized; you yourself have said so. Our aim is to continue to maintain its capacity for management, independence, commitment, roots and support for the Basque economy with all its solvency. In this sense, I remind you that it is today the leading financial entity in solvency, and it has accredited the largest social dividend in the whole state. Moreover, as this week has been reflected in the media, the European authorities have not changed the need to analyse the horizon of the merger in the case of Kutxabank. Let me also say that, based on all known experiences, also in our own environment, there is not an optimal single size, nor a single viable business model in the sector. An increasingly large bank is not synonymous with more solvency. As a reference, many countries in Europe have an extensive network of highly competitive regional or local savings banks. One example is Germany, with more than 400 entities. Merger processes with large banks are not the only alternative, nor does it have to be the best option for the future strategy. That's my opinion. Kutxabank has its own roadmap, which, I insist, is up to the financial institution itself to decide. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, my dear son, of Lorenzo, the parliamentary members of the Basque Socialists, made to the planetal Plant, Housing, and Commander of Transportal Division, concerning the procuring of a reasonable rental to people who do not succeed in housing in the free market." Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Arriola jauna, the special social housing report of 2020, from the Housing and Soil Observatory of the current Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, which has quantified the public housing stock and, in particular, those intended for rent, highlights the constant and consistent effort of Euskadi in this area. We currently have almost 24,000 social housing units for rent and only Andalusia can boast of more public park than Euskadi. This is the result of two fundamental issues. First, the existence of a pioneering housing law, driven by socialists in this House. And secondly, undoubtedly, by the undeniable political will of this Government, and especially of the Housing Council you lead, to focus all efforts on promoting rental policies. It turns out that the efforts to boost the rental in Euskadi have been the most consistent of all the autonomous communities. Thus, in 2019, 24% of the total interim ratings of sheltered rental housing at state level correspond to Euskadi; one in four. In the period 2014-2019 the construction of 7,081 sheltered rental houses has begun at the state level, and Euskadi leads the ranking with 2,340 in those five years, compared to 2,208 in Madrid or 474, for example, in Catalonia. In recent years, the weight of the new promotion of public housing for rent has also grown substantially. With 2019 figures it can be said that 21% of the protected housing promoted at the state level was rented; promotion that amounts to 29% in the case of the housing promoted in Euskadi. In view of the promotion of direct expenditure on housing in relation to the population, the average resulting from the period 2002 to 2019 stands out second Euskadi, with 73.8 euros per inhabitant, well above the Spanish average, ciphered at 41 euros per inhabitant, and without including tax expenditure, where it stands out supremely Euskadi and which exceeds the amount of direct expenditure. This effort undoubtedly translates into results: one in two households that live for rent in Euskadi has a protected rent, either because it is a public rental park or because it also has public support in the payment of rent. Therefore, the levels of protection are high, and on the scale, high protection at European level is well-referenced, too, as far as Basque policy is concerned. The Basque Socialists therefore believe that this is the course that this Government and its Council should take. Undoubtedly, we have been protagonists of that impulse, but we also believe that it is time to make a qualitative leap. In that connection, I asked him about the prospects and plans they have for rental policies for people who cannot access a free market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u14	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Andueza, access to housing is a basic right and it is a considerable challenge, both in Euskadi and throughout the European Union. Our biggest problem remains that the size of our public rental park is not yet comparable to that of the reference countries, despite the effort we have been making in recent years. An effort, as you said, recognized in the Ministry's latest special report, which places Euskadi as the second largest community with social housing for rent, almost 24,000, just behind Andalusia, and which leads us to be up in the ranking This effort, with the limitations outlined, translates into results. As you have also recalled here, one in two rental homes in Euskadi has some level of protection, either because they have a public rental park home or because they have public support for the payment of rent on the free market. And this puts us on the high European scale. But, in reply to your specific question, I will tell you that today, in order to be able to access the Bizigune programme, a minimum income of 21,000 euros is established, and a maximum income of 25,000 euros, forgiveness, maximum income of 21,000 euros, and in the specific case of social housing, the maximum income is 25,000 euros. And what is really happening all this time is that the policies developed with regard to the award of housing and rental subsidies have mainly focused on the most disadvantaged people and groups, basically, with incomes below EUR 12,000, which are 56% of those registered in Etxebide as rent applicants. However, there is certainly another important segment of the population that also has serious difficulties in obtaining housing, and I refer to 16,183 family units, which have income between 15,000 and 39,000 euros, and which account for 27% of the tenants. Therefore, we believe that – without abandoning priority attention to the group of less resources – we believe that this social sector must also be taken care of. This conviction is in line with one of the conclusions of the recent European Parliament report entitled Policies to ensure access to affordable housing In this line, we will continue to bet on the Gaztelagun programme, for the emancipation of young people, and to promote affordable housing formulas for rent, through public-private collaboration and support to associations and cooperatives for the development of cohousing And, on the other hand, we are considering the possibility that Visesa, in addition to promoting social housing that is then destined to Alokabide management, can promote, in a sustainable way, public housing of VPO at affordable prices. And we will also strengthen the Bizigune program to mobilize empty housing, also combining with other measures provided for in the Uninhabited Housing Regulations, such as the canon for empty housing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u16	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Forth point on the theme list: "Queen Martiniz was the first member of the Podemos-IU team to the vice-president and security chief of the department, on the 29th of March, the border had been to the charge of his conduct in San Francisco district." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u17	Thank you, ma'am. On 29 March, on 29 March, an Ertzaintza performance took place in the Bilbao neighborhood of San Francisco in relation to a son and mother, both of immigrant origin. This performance of the Ertzaintza ended with the arrest of the son and the mother, in addition to the imputation by the Ertzaintza of three persons, for assault on authority and for insults, and with several fines to several neighbors, also... For insults, let's say. All this performance of the Ertzaintza was recorded, it was video recorded, so the citizens in general were able to know its content and how the events unfolded. And the social revolt, the social outrage that caused what was seen in these images, produced, in addition to a rather profound social criticism, also led to an internal investigation within the Ertzaintza, and also led us to a resolution of the Ararteko that took place on September 17, 2020, barely a month ago. In this resolution, Ararteko questions several things about this police action, and in particular also what he questions is the force employed, the force employed by Ertzaintza and its disproportionateity. It also questions the general way in which Ertzaintza is often used or used in relation to persons of immigrant origin, and it also questions the research that was opened in the Department of the Interior to clarify the circumstances of this action. And around all these issues, all these questions, he makes a long list of recommendations. The question, the question I would like to ask, is: what is the intention of the Department of Safety and Security to comply with these recommendations of the Ararteko Resolution of 17 September? And, on the other hand, I would also like to ask the Councillor, Vice-President, the fines imposed on the neighbors who videotaped these actions were also made in application of the law gag. How are these performances? If you could tell me something about this issue too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gorrotxategi, before replying to your question, I would like to provide a contextualizing data, in order to show that the episode you highlight in formulating this question is a specific exception, and not a constant one in the action that the Basque Police, the Ertzaintza, developed during the pandemic period. The fact is, look: of the thousands of actions that were carried out by the Euskadi police regarding the state of alarm, Ekinbide recorded only 10 complaints for acts related to identification and detention. Well, given this precision, I wonder about the intention of the Department of Safety and Security to comply with this 17 September Recommendation of the Ararteko. The intention of the Department of Safety and Security in relation to these recommendations is that of always, that is, first of all, to comply with the recommendations of the Ararteko, but, of course, to do so also from the most scrupulous respect for legal provisions and judicial decisions, and this latter precision seems particularly relevant to me in this case, because it is a matter which, as you have rightly pointed out, is under judicious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u20	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. From where?... Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u21	Well, the truth is that he talks about punctual action, but already the Ararteko, in his reports, since 2010 was already warning us of the disproportionate use of police force and also of its impact, especially on people of immigrant or racialized origin. Amnesty International has also noticed, and this annotation, moreover, is something that is repeated in other Ararteko reports and in other recommendations of later years, is not something new. Amnesty International has also taken note of this situation and made express reference to the event also in San Francisco, to illustrate this disproportionate mode of action and also that it affects people of immigrant origin in a particular way. SOS Racism is also warning us right now of actions, after this same action, of actions also of identification of people of immigrant origin who do not meet criteria of reasonableness that must be demanded; that is, it is not a point problem, I believe it is a problem that we have to recognize as own, almost structural and that it is worth addressing seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. Erkorek, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gorrotxategi, when I referred to the fact that this is a timely event, I have given an objective fact, it was not a personal perception. The fact that the Ararteko has echoed, on more than one occasion, these kinds of issues does not make it a constant in the performance of the Ertzaintza, much less. It means that, the focus, the Ararteko puts it on the issues, on the points that are controversial. But as I was saying, look: the matter you are referring to is being dealt with at this time by Bilbao's 3rd Court of Instruction, preliminary proceedings 481/2020, for an alleged offence of assault against agents of the authority, 550 of the Criminal Code, and also for one of the injuries. There are, therefore, cross-declarations in this regard. And exactly the same facts that had been the subject of internal investigation by the Department of Security are being analysed in court. And as is customary in these cases, the initiation of this criminal procedure has entailed the automatic cessation of the internal administrative investigation of the Department of Security, because both the Basque Police Act and the Rules of Disciplinary Regime of the Ertzaintza clearly state that the public administration must make its own inexorably all the facts declared proven by a judgement handed down in the criminal field. And this makes it pointless to move forward in an independent administrative investigation, parallel to the judicial one, when its findings can be radically different from the facts established by the judicial judgment, and we would therefore leave a huge amount of work carried out within the public administration itself in the water of drunkards. There are, therefore, reasons for a procedural economy, and reasons for legal certainty, which advise not to move forward in the internal investigation, until such time as such a judicial decision defines the facts, facts which inexorably also link the Administration. And from there, on the basis of these proven facts, open the internal instructions that are relevant to clarify, if any, disciplinary responsibilities or even possible breaches of the code of ethics. This is the performance that has been carried out by the Ertzaintza when such situations occur, it is the most orthodox, the most correct and the one that reflects the greatest respect with respect to legal forecasts and judicial decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u24	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Five point in theme list: "The question, as Charles Iturgai, the popular Group Angulo Euscals, the member of the Ciudadans, the President's interview, the Lordship, or the criteria of 'folding' to the practice of the hand. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u25	Legebiltzarburu andrea, zure baimenarekin, jesarlekutik, galdetzeko lehendakariari, Urkullu jaunari: Mr. lehendakari, on what criteria and on what arguments do you agree that you should postpone your offer of a hand extended to the opposition one time after another? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. As a matter of fact, sir, before 100 days of the government's government, or before it's done, that is, in the first fortnight of November, we can have a meeting with political parties. And that meeting with a solid and precise foundation. Before 100 days of government are completed, the first half of November, more specifically, we will be able to hold a working meeting on a solid and concrete basis with the political parties. My view is that having that base of departure will facilitate our goal: to share diagnoses, to contrast proposals and to reach agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Again. We are already seeing how the weeks and months, Mr Urkullu, are happening. You are now giving a date, but your offer of dialogue and extended hand, for we have seen it, remain words, from our point of view, without contents, without substance, without date to sit down; although now you are telling us, and I will give you some examples within a moment. You have not given us an answer so far because there was no criterion, and there is no possible explanation for you to continue ignoring any possibility of agreement and dialogue with the opposition, which should not have been done on that date, should have been done before. Because it was you who insisted on adorning yourself with such offerings once in a while. And I'm going to remind you of some of those offerings. First he did it the same election night. He said he could not meet with the opposition before closing his agreement with the Socialist Party. There was pandemic, crisis, unemployment, but you already had your majority and you didn't need to talk to anyone else, unfortunately. Then came the signing of the coalition agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, and served as a reminder, in your opinion, of your willingness to reach agreements and a hand reached with the opposition. But the truth is, it sounded like satisfied rhetoric again. Then came the investiture debate, and you yourself repeated that approach, and you reiterated it to the media saying that you had to talk to the opposition to ensure a new future for Euskadi. And we've come to this day. Without answers, without an informal conversation even about the dozen long issues – you know them: start of course, reinforcement of primary care, taxation, pending OPE, problems in health, in economics, in labor, in so many issues – in what my group, People's Party and Citizens, offered you from the first moment dialogue and agreement. And worse than that, on some issues, such as Zaldibar, the answer has been the refusal in round to work from Parliament to avoid, nothing more and nothing less, that there is a repetition of the catastrophe, which no one wants. They haven't even been willing to do that. And last week, it's true, from the press, and from the press, they tell us that there's nothing to talk about until the appearances are over. – which you already gave today a date – of the new advisors to Parliament. So, they say, when the appearances are over. There you will open a round of contacts. I mean, another excuse not to talk to the opposition all this time. Actually – let me say the Taurus simile – it is a long change, because what we were really told by the press is that the first scenario of dialogue will be budgetary negotiation, which you plan for January or February. Look, for January or February of the year 2021, lehendakari. Six or seven months, July to January. That is, the eighth part of the legislature without sitting at all with the opposition. Mr Urkullu, the situation is not going to pass us six months without talking, or so many months, or more than 100 days. We shouldn't have taken six months, three or 100 days. Because, without a doubt, the problem that we have on the table all the citizens of the Basque Country, we know it: the pandemic is resuming, unemployment is growing, uncertainty, concern is increasing for the future of this land. We, I remind you, have always offered our hand to speak, to get the country out of the problems it is having and, unfortunately, you have seen that you have not taken that hand that we have extended to you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u30	Thank you. Your time is up, Mr. Iturgaz. It's over. Thank you. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, I think you are confusing the parliamentary activity and the ability to deal in Parliament between the various groups, whether groups supporting the government or opposition groups, with the issues that you yourself have mentioned and which some of them have also discussed in this House. Anyway, Mr. Iturbiz, it is for the Government to propose, organize, decide, and manage. And to opposition it is this: To ask, control, inspection, and even to introduce alternatives and proposals. The agreement or disagreement of these two parts may arise: distance or cooperation may be established. It's our goal, I'm just trying to promote agreement and cooperation. In order to do this, the government is taking first steps to organize our solid work-grounds. That's the meeting where I expect your alternatives and your proposals. We are strictly complying, Mr Iturgaiz, with the commitment I made to you in the investiture, for the first 100 days of government. We have approved and referred the government programme to this House. We have adopted and presented the economic-budgetary guidelines, which are the basis for the preparation of a preliminary draft budget law, which has its timetable, its set time. Yesterday the Basque Finance Council was held. On 26 October, a working meeting is announced with the President of the European Commission, to know on that date, first hand, the criteria of the Next Generation funds. We have presented the Berpiztu plan for economic recovery and employment. And we are contrasting it with public institutions, with the Social Dialogue Bureau, with the Socio-Economic Bureau, in a process that will culminate this month of October, this same month. And also this month, this month of October, will be the presentation to this House of the general guidelines of the departments by all the advisers. There is, therefore, no delay. Today we are in the first 40 days of government. And before 100 days of government, the first half of November, we will be able to hold a meeting – as I said before, a working meeting – on a solid and concrete basis with the political parties. My point, I insist, is that having that base of departure will facilitate our goal, which is to share diagnosis, contrast proposals and reach agreements. In short, build an effective collaborative process. Faced with the complex situation we are experiencing, there are two questions to answer: what we should do and how we should do it. All the information we are producing is what we are proposing. How, you know him well, because the government motto is "Auzolana", collaboration and shared work for the common good. This is our criterion. And I assure you that our will is to direct dialogue towards the achievement of agreements. I understand that I have your disposition, and I hope to have your alternatives and proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, as to the function of the advisers of Madame Cristina Uriart, who is a member of the Cémanans, a member of the Basque Manuel Gilegas, a member of the Ciudadans. " Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, just 15 days ago, from this very rostrum, I publicly denounced the policy of rotating doors that for years and with total impunity is exercising this government. On that occasion I asked Mr Lehendakari, without obtaining a satisfactory answer, what were the criteria for appointing Ms Cristina Uriarte as an advisor to Lehendakaritza, after leaving the Education Council, instead of any other candidate, without giving me any selective process to ensure the impartiality of the decision and the optimisation of public resources. Today I refer again to Mrs Cristina Uriarte, in order to ask Mr Urkullu to clarify to us what is the specific mission, and apparently secret, that she has entrusted to Mrs Cristina Uriarte, what are her specific functions and tasks, and on what is she based to justify a vice-counsel level endowment, charging a salary of 85,375 euros gross per year. And I do so because, since the decree of his appointment, the decree itself, only indicates: "the tasks to be carried out will be those of an advisory post and those specific to the area to which he belongs", in an exercise of lack of transparency and lack of rigour that draws attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u34	Thank you, Mr. Gil. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Gil, I will not highlight the achievements of Counsellor Cristina Uriarte over the past eight years at the head of the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture, and second, after the second term, at the head of the Department of Education. I moved them 15 days ago and I reiterate my positive assessment and recognition of their work, merit, confidence and capacity, I told you 15 days ago. In any case, Cristina Uriarte will perform the functions given by the current law to the Commissioner for Science, Technology and Innovation of the Basque Government. It occupies, at this moment, the square that you quote, in transitory form, until the decree of organic structure is approved. Both the Science, Technology and Innovation Council and the figure of the Commissioner who is now appointed, or will be appointed, was created by Decree 49/2014 of 8 April. Therefore, more transparency than that contained in a decree, impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u37	Mr Lehendakari, Mrs Uriarte's appointment is part of another series of relocations initiated with the inauguration of the new Basque Government. Among them is also the appointment of Jonan Fernández and those we will know, in such a way that the cohort of advisors of Lehendakaritza is becoming the refuge, paid by all Basques, of the high offices that cease in their function. The placement agency of this government works much better than Lanbide. What do you think, Mr Urkullu, that Basque citizens think of such appointments? I think they don't even like their own voters. This kind of practice is a clear symptom of decay and a tear that we must make disappear once and for all. We need a depoliticized administration, a government leader in transparency, a public management system based on excellence, impartiality, political neutrality and effectiveness. But, frankly, I have a lot of doubts that this is possible if even this same question can be considered uncomfortable or inappropriate, rather than whether it can or should be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u38	Thank you, Mr. Gil. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Gil, it seems that we will have to appoint the councillors or councillors, all the high offices of a government, whatever government is, through public competition, in public square, according to what is your opinion. In any case, I believe that senior officials respond to political parties that have gained the greatest confidence in the citizenry. In this case, I believe that there is a difference between the confidence received by the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party, with what has been received by the Basque People's Group or the Basque People's-Citizens Group. However, I am not going to get involved in what is your maraña, in the question or in your second intervention. I will refer to the appointment of the Commissioner for Science, Technology and Innovation. The creation decree states that the Council for Science, Technology and Innovation is a body for strategic guidance, participation, advice and promotion of scientific, technological, research and innovation policy within the Basque Autonomous Community, set up as the catalyst and coordinator of the Basque Science, Technology and Innovation System. And I refer you to what is stated in article 6, so that you are clear as to what functions it establishes, that the lehendakari will be assisted by a member of the council and will serve as its secretariat. The same article states that it is for the person in charge to promote and coordinate the functioning of the Council and, in particular, to develop the following functions: one, to draw up and present to the Council the annual report of activities; two, to monitor the activities carried out in the exercise of its functions; three, to conclude and sign the commitments and agreements necessary for the performance of its activities within the framework determined by the Council; four, to exercise the institutional representation of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi by the delegation of the lehendakari to public and private institutions, bodies or organizations. And, five, exercise the functions of the secretariat of the council, together with the sixth, which is the rest of the powers delegated to it by its presidency to the council. These are the specific tasks that Cristina Uriarte will perform, to whom I show all my appreciation, I insist, as I did 15 days ago. This post of Commissioner, created in 2014, has been occupied to date by the Secretary-General of the Presidency. And from this point on, it will be up to the Commissioner to carry out these functions within the framework of a legislature in which these objectives will have a priority character, as reflected in our government programme. In any case, I insist, Mr Gil, that it is the lehendakari's power to appoint those who are senior government officials, on the basis of their trust. They're trusting charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Queen Martín was asked by the lawmate of the Podemos-IU team to the first vice president and Security Chief, about the Council of Debekus. " Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u41	Bai, Mr. Erkoreka, the online game I don't concentrate if they're talking in front of me. I'm sorry, mahaiburu andrea. Well, he said the game has a bad perception for Basque citizenship. Almost half of the population considers that the level of play in Euskadi, its frequency and expenditure, is high. Two thirds think you play more than a few years ago. Data indicate that children under the age of 18 are the main groups among which the game is increasing. 80% of the population think that gambling is not good for Basque society and that it can cause serious pathological, economic and social consequences, which, of course, affect not only the person suffering from them, but also their family environment. That's right, for good and for bad, the game is legal. In this regard, the registration of prohibited persons or self-prohibited persons Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u42	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martinez, self-prohibited registration So it is and Euskadi agrees with that instrument, which is one of the first autonomous communities in which this register was established. In fact, it has been operating in our Autonomous Community since the early 1980s. And at present, after different regulations, its regulation is contained in article 18 of the General Rules of the Game, which is four years ago, has full force, full development and is working to the full satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u44	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u45	We agree, Mr Erkoreka, on what you have just said. The theme of the game is a cross-cutting theme, but it affects especially the popular classes and, as the data indicates, especially the youth. And its boom is also the result of a model of individualist neoliberal society, which is not offering healthy, cheap and accessible leisure alternatives for youth. That is why we have seen in recent years, and it is a growing problem in our cities and towns, how locals and gambling houses have grown. This tool is indeed available to the Basque Government. But it has to be a useful tool. And I say this because in Euskadi, according to the data we have, there are 1,146 people who have registered in this register. 906 are registered in the state registry, i.e. they can't play in Euskadi, but neither outside Euskadi. 400 people are on the Euskadi register, i.e. they can't play in Euskadi, but they can play in Cantabria, Burgos or La Rioja. And only 156 are registered on both. In this regard, the Government of Spain proposed the coordination of these self-prohibited registers on 21 September. And the Basque Government did not support this issue. This agreement was the only one that involved the signing of collaborative agreements for automated interconnection between the different information systems of the registers that already exist in the State and that exist in the autonomous communities. We do not understand why Euskadi did not support this principle of agreement to enable the coordination of registers between the State and the autonomous communities. Because the state registry does communicate to Euskadi, and therefore those registered in the state cannot play in Euskadi. But those registered in Euskadi, as this system is not automated, can consume these games of chance if they go on the weekend, for example, to Cantabria. One of the most serious consequences of the game is the emergence, as we have said, of behaviors that diminish and nullify the perception of the risk associated with the game itself. Therefore, this is a tool that allows players, so, self-limiting in that ability of the game. It is therefore of no use for us to register in Euskadi. If we are targeted here, we can go to another nearby autonomous community and we can play or these people can play. We believe that maximum coordination is necessary between administrations, in this case throughout the State, and I would say that beyond that, throughout the European Union, so that from voluntary and agreement, but with coordination, to reduce the risk of people with problems, to reduce the risk of people with serious gambling problems. I think it is a simple theme within the enormous complexity of this theme of the game. And that is why we urge the Basque Government to join that agreement with a willingness to cooperate and coordinate with the rest of the autonomous communities.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u46	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, indeed, well, the coordination of the register with the rest of the State's registers in this same matter is expressly provided for in the General Rules of the Game, in article 18.6, which speaks of two types, in addition to collaborations. He talks about agreements to articulate the communication of data, and talks about interconnections of records. We absolutely agree on everything that has to do with the need to articulate, to establish mechanisms of coordination, of data transmission, of interoperability between autonomous registers and between autonomous registers and the state, in order to provide effective guarantees to these instruments which, as I said in the first part of my intervention, are decisive, indeed, to limit some harmful effects and to protect certain people. At the September 21 meeting of the Game Policy Council, to which you refer, the current Director General of Game Planning, his colleague Mikel Arana and former Basque parliamentarian, was actually present there. And, indeed, he proposed a coordination approach. The Basque Government was not at all opposed to moving towards such coordination. What was not clear exactly was the procedure and instruments that were intended to articulate to make such coordination effective. The minister – who changed the rules of procedure of the body so that the minister could be present, because until then the minister did not usually participate in that forum – the minister said that respect for the autonomous communities goes his way. But when it comes to an initiative that comes from the central government, respect for autonomous competences never goes of its own. This must indeed be checked against the actual content of the proposals put forward. There was talk of policy measures and technical measures. We agree with the technical measures. Normative measures will have to see what scope and content they have, and how they are formulated. The Basque Government, in that forum, was not opposed to the adoption of the measure; it abstained. A abstention that, logically, was a precautionary measure, perfectly explained by the director of Game and Shows within the body, when he advanced that, without any objection to the substance and approach presented through the initiative, we wanted to know in much more detail what exactly was being proposed and in what terms; because I can assure him that, in recent times, technification, digitization, is becoming the great instrument of re-centralization of the State. The great instrument. Subtle, because penitent centralizers have discovered that what the analog world did not allow, digital does allow it and, wide is Castile, they begin to invade autonomous lands. Let's see it. In fact, collaboration is already under way. The technical elements of our register already have them, and it is the central Government that has committed itself in four months to drawing up a concrete proposal. We will see it from the very best will for cooperation, in the interests of the instrument that is effective for the purposes of the Basque Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u48	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interadectition, myria Cortja, members of the Ibañez EH Collectors, made of the second vice-presidents and chief staff of the United States, an engagement to promote a proper employment." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u49	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Partners, Mountain Chief, good day. Well, this cold morning, I wanted to talk to you for a bit of quality work, Mrs. Mountain. Without neglect, the employment based on fair and suitable conditions of work, which guarantees the vital security of self and family conditions, which offers opportunity for personal development, which is safe to be completed, without danger, which encourages and secures the intervention of workers, renders a fair distribution of wealth, and renders more effective, reduces the environmental impact, and places itself in the direction of the ecological transition, which animates the newly-productive and refractive. I thought it necessary, first of all, to explain to the Basque Country what a quality employment is. Because recently we all talk about social employment, which is politically correct, but I don't know whether we all have the same thing in our mind. I really don't know. This is no doubt a law marked by COVID-19, which has produced serious consequences, and will have them at work. The unemployment of the last few months has already been conspicuous, and still more, the imperturbability of the eupscal workers. And what we're looking forward to doesn't seem easy. A thousand thousands of jobs may even be provided for thousands of workers, the protection they can afford is uncertain, and thus even their plans of life can be shaken. And we'll see what the next days and weeks do, because I'm thinking that this model that's chosen to share with the virus will cause serious risks, even to work. Since you were appointed Counsellor, Mrs Mendia, you have given many headlines and expressed your commitment to the creation of quality employment. And with some of the elements that you have put forward at this time, for we have already stated that we agree. But one is analyzing what the different members of this government say, what the lehendakari says, analyzes his government agreement, and the plan, the reactivation program that we have recently presented, or the video-summary of his appearance here in the Commission, and I don't know if this about quality employment is a bit like that intention that we manifest many people at the beginning of the year to go to the gym, which always stays for Monday. I remember that in 2016, Beaatri, the head physician, was also a member of Artolaloti, and I remember, in some measure, that he spoke to us of the quality of employment, and of the intention of improving it. But this was the end of their plans. And he had something like it in the history of the government, and also in the resurrect program that followed. You are a priority in government agreement, employment, and a number of commitments; one of them is to improve the quality of employment. Bajado a lo concreto: You have defined the vertical axis of action on the resurrect program: it belongs to the creation of the employment, and to improve the quality of employment with an indirect common field. And our concerns increase when the principal results of resurrects are identified by the most important results, when the main indicators of the program results are marked, when we do not see any of the quality of the job; though they are negligible, yet there are indicators about the quality of the job. And this has already been experienced by the previous legislature, Mrs Mendia, and the results have been known to us. The results are there, everyone's available. As I said in the two days' exhibition, in the European context, the data of EAE's employment, whether quantum or quantum, are very few, and they were very few, very few. To work is no longer a guarantee of vital security, much more if you are a woman and a young man or both. And today I don't want to get mixed up in the data, but I'm just going to give one that provided the Foessa Foundation about a year ago, and that's more than relevant to the situation we're living in. In Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia, unemployment fell below 10%, in fact, but the rate of vulnerability in employment was 19.5 %, and rising. In our opinion, a clear indication of the failure of the employment police hitherto. Since you've been named head of department, you've talked about transformations over and over again, and we can find ourselves on the way to modification. But transforming is another way of doing things, there can be no modification in the usual way. But in what we have hitherto seen and examined, we see little novelty besides intention. Not a sign of transformation. And then our team is involved in questions about your true priorities, Mrs. Mountain. Ángel Toña, Employment Advisor a few years ago, wrote a very interesting article a few months ago, which was entitled Again precariousness, no He speaks of the panorama presented to us, of the suffering that will come, and points out that we are in zone 0 for citizens and governments. And he asks himself, "Reconstruction? Back to the previous situation? No, Toña says, "nearly nothing should return to the previous situation. The new normality is something more than two meters away and a mask; it is to start a new way of dealing with what is really important." And the men and women of the Basque Country, we don't want any new normalities that will be the Grand Duke. We've got it all figured out. What is here at stake, Madam Mountain, is to reflect on one of the principal concerns of the people who compose this people, what positions, and what commitments we commit. To promote pretors, or to create conditions for life's subsistence. That's the game. It is clear that, as we have said in this legislature, the principal aim of all employments must necessarily be to promote the social employment of the Basque Country to the United States. Even more at the moment we're living. In this context, and in front of the gravity of the situation we live in, we believe that the privileges which have hitherto existed in employments, and that by significant public policies it is necessary to recover the leadership and action by means of significant public policies, Mrs. And I've often repeated it at this dock, but we have to jump over a qualitative. To this we need ambition, when we establish our ends, to be removed from the conforts. We need a whale, we need a whale, because we have to discuss this transition to high-quality employment. We have to discuss the independence, because we can't, we can't have a whole business policy here, we can define it. We can't define the minimum wage, the security system for our employees, the framework of work relationships. We need to talk about the work division. We need to talk about the chances that the public contract offers us. We need to talk about this record that's going to be in the next few years, both in public and in private. We need to talk about the policy we use to help and protect companies with money. We need to talk about protecting workers. We need to talk about the co-operative and social economic relations that are the founders of social employment, and the possibilities they offer us. And the chances that European funds offer us. And we need to talk, we need to talk about the feminist practice being able to take us to the center of the job policy. And we need consistency. We need consistency. We can't go on like you've been doing for the last few weeks, proposing to lower our wages, and others to say that wages are probably too low. But, in our opinion, what we need most is our conversation. We need a strong political initiative. We need a strong locality for a high-level job. What is to be built with many more agents beyond those sitting on the counter of the interview, and to activate the intelligence of this country, which will offer to activate the collective intelligence. This is what we propose to promote high employment, Mrs. Mountain. The possibility that we give you and this country a chance, an offer, a means of finding and interacting in a popular state for social employment. This is our alternative. The president said we could offer alternatives, which is what we suggest. And we want to know what your engagement is today, what it is, how you will promote your social employment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u51	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, members of the Parliament. Looking at the innovations, the interviews, and the terms of equality, the preparations for the workers being connected with the actual employment requests, and looking at the weakest collective requests, women, age 45 to age, young, and other people who have difficulty with them, we will do it with corporations and social agents, and even with this legislature. I said on Wednesday: We have a vocation to transform because today's world demands the transformation of the euscal employment system. And because I am convinced that this House shares this challenge, and shares that this axis, that of creating jobs and quality, must be cross-cutting. It must cross all government policies horizontally, and it must be shared with all levels of government, from the municipalities to Europe. If we share this, we already have a good starting point. But, in order to do it right, first, the analysis must be adjusted to reality. And if we do a rigorous analysis, we'd have to see where we were when this pandemic broke out for all of us. The unemployment rate was below 10%, as we had committed ourselves. The strengthening of the labour inspectorate regularized 18,300 fraudulent contracts in four years. Osalan bet for his preventive and training work of labour prevention delegates in companies. The agreements of the Social Dialogue Bureau have made it possible to extend equality plans in enterprises. And all this was achieved because we regained political stability and the agreement between different people, which favour economic activity and employment. These are the essential tools for quality employment, because the Government is not the main generator of employment; the Government creates the conditions for companies to generate such employment and establishes the guarantees for decent employment. With serenity, dialogue, prevention and inspection. This was the reality, not the description, almost apocalyptic, that has been pointed out to us on occasion in this House. Things were being done right, we were going in the right direction and that's what we have to know. Then the pandemic came and this one returned us to the exit box. And yes, of course, we had outstanding subjects, we had them and we continued to have them, and they have heard me say it, and I will repeat it once again, this department that I am running will never hide reality, however hard it is, and it would be good if we all did it, because if we start from the thesis that everything that has been done has been wrong, we will be defrauding the efforts made by the social and economic actors for a long time. And reality is unquestionable. And these are the data at the end of September: 144,758 unemployed people, 1,692 less than in August. In pre- and post-crisis years, decreases of between 1,000 and 2,000 people were common in September. In years of crisis, unemployment increased considerably. This month's data would be similar to data from times of economic growth. But there are 31,124 more unemployed than in September 2019, and there are 27,519 more unemployed than in February. 54.59 per cent of the unemployed are women and increase long-term unemployment. And now, half of the unemployed, 73,566, are long-term. Unemployment grew by 8.95 % among children under 24 years of age, and has risen by 83.22 % in one year. And, with regard to temporality, recruitment has grown by 71.9 since August, but it is 21.7% lower than last September. And part-time contracts are 37.89, and in women 52%. And as far as social security is concerned, there are 945,935 members. It's 7,349 more than the previous month. Growth is higher than previous September, with or without crisis, but since February 20, 27,218 affiliations have been lost. And as you see, Mrs Kortajarena, I do not hide anything, I do not display some things and cover up others to disguise; that does not go with me, and I told you two weeks ago, and two days ago in this very House: I read this data with prudence, but also with hope; away from triumphalisms, but also from catastrophes. Realist. A few months ago, in the Permanent Chamber, we all shared a concern about the economic and labour effects of the pandemic. We saw the companies closed or at least. The ERTEs were installed as an exceptional tool, especially because the vast majority were agreed between companies and workers to be able to resist. We soon wondered if those jobs would really be saved, and we already have the answers. In Euskadi, 84% of the workers concerned have returned and we hope to be able to save the more than 21,000 who are still in that situation. If we succeed, despite the huge whiplash of COVID, we will have saved 96% of the job that may have disappeared and that has not done so. And it has not done so, thanks to collective bargaining and social dialogue, because, indeed, the social dialogue table, here and in Madrid, has come to stay, are the forums that drive public policies to achieve decent work, which is the one that guarantees decent income in decent conditions in order to have decent life projects. And in that forum there is another one of the answers to your question of the same. Concerting, seeking agreement over differences, is a clear bet of the previous and current Government. But this department – as I have already had the opportunity to personally transfer all agents – is not going to waste a single contribution that goes in that line. And neither do the parliamentary groups, because another essential tool to enhance quality in employment is directly in our hands, in those of the government and in those of this Parliament: the generation of trust, serenity, the commitment to dialogue, the ability to listen and to be willing to the agreement. Because the bet on stability and understanding between different has also been shown to be a formula of success, it was an essential factor for us to start correcting trends in the past legislature. We will therefore insist on those things that have worked and change those that have not achieved their goals. I also believe that we have all, without exception, shared the need for Lanbide to be a really useful tool in brokering. And that hasn't been achieved yet. But we have to be honest, too. Nine years ago a good law was made, but in its deployment it has been seen the limitations. And, also in the development of the law, Lanbide has been accumulating other obligations that draw resources from it to devote itself to its main objective, its task of providing the most appropriate training. And I have already announced to this House the intention of carefully analysing the situation in Lanbide. And we will also have to greatly improve the transfer of data between different administrations in order to devote the least time and resources to contrasting information that must be clicked. So, Mrs Kortajarena, we're not going to start from scratch, as if everything we've done so far is worth nothing. I believe that it is a political obligation to recognize what is worth preserving and to recognize what needs to be improved, whether in government or in opposition, that must always be acknowledged; because, if not, we would transfer workers, businesses, and all those involved in the economic and labour field, that their efforts from the past have no future path, that they have lost their time. And I want to convey just the opposite message: the effort has been great, it has been collaborative and it is worth it. And this is the best acquittal for me and my department, and also for the Basque Government as a whole: to know that we can do this and that we are again counting on the trade unions, on the employers, on the cooperatives, on the municipalities, on the deputies, on the Spanish Government and also on this Parliament, to get this country out of the way. With all these actors we are going to design the Basque employment strategy 2020-2030, in which we are already working and which will have two starting points: the participation of all actors who have something to contribute and the country vision. A government strategy involving all the resources of all the institutions, with them and with innovation, with dialogue and with equality. That is how we intend to face this great challenge, as you yourself pointed out in your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u53	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Well, a new exercise in parenthesis doctrine, right? From "how well things went until the COVID arrived," which we cannot share. And we don't share. And we had already moved it before the COVID, and we moved it too later. The principle of reality gives us the data. You mentioned some. I have already said that today I was not going to get involved in this series of data, but I believe that in recent times we have known more than eloquent data: the Survey of Poverty and Social Inequalities reflected a change in trends and led us to rather complicated situations, even to the worst data, in some cases, since we have the series of data on poverty and social inequalities. Never before have there been so many people at risk of exclusion in Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia, Mrs Mendia. And he was also talking, in Foessa's survey, about the 340,000 people who, despite being employed, lived in a situation of total uncertainty, without any kind of mattress. And he mentioned that those people would be the first to fall if things were twisted. And go if we've been twisted. You spoke the other day, precisely, that you were concerned about those vital experiences that were behind the figures. And this is what lies behind the figures: a reality that, as Foessa said, places us in the situation of a society that can break at its base. And that's what we're really worried about, because we're here to put forward a future that's set in other conditions. For us, as I say, that is the principle of reality. It is neither a matter of catastrophe nor of complacency. This is about the vital experiences that are taking place in Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia, and how we can build a future in other conditions for these people. I think that's what public policy is all about. When we talk about public policies, we are not talking about promoting anything; we are talking about promoting concrete policies. And what interests us is to promote policies that establish conditions for developing projects of life, happiness and dignity. That's what we're interested in. And that's why we bring this inquiry today. At this moment, I'd say that there are four strategic materials on the table in this town, right? It's probably about health. We've brought new proposals to this legislature over and over again, and we've extended your hand to interact with you, but we haven't had much to do at the moment, but we'll continue. As for the funds of Europe, it seems to us to be another strategic point. And since yesterday's discussion, some of them don't seem to have any intention of releasing the toy. Around the Auto-Community, and to preserve and protect our members, and to build that condition and future under other conditions is another strategic discussion. We have also had another chapter of ships this week. And the third is the offer we made to you today, right? This proposal for the interaction of this transition to employment of quality: It's a popular town. Are we going to be chapels, Mrs. Idio Mountain, at least, to agree to this popular influence? Because that's where you'll find us. In this country, with so many and so many motives that may compromise themselves with these engagements and these designs. And on the back of these tables, at the back of those boarders, and in those institutions which have no room for those institutions which you have mentioned, but which have much to offer and bring them back to this people, and to these ends. You will find us there, with them, with outstretched hand, with perfect integrity, Mrs. On the way to transformation, as I told you the other day, we were ready. It is also to know whether you are prepared for it, or that it has rusted us, that you are prepared to ask new questions, to build a new future, to ask new questions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. I love you, Mrs. Mountain. That's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u55	Mrs Kortajarena, this government has in the creation of quality employment a cross-cutting axis that crosses the policies of many of the government departments; I would say that of all. And the instruments used by the Government are: investment, which has already been decided by all the institutions, 13,250 million from the Basque Government, and concerted commitments with the rest of the institutions, through innovation, because we are at an unprecedented time that needs new answers to deal with it. New questions, new answers. Equality between men and women, between young and old, to gain access to quality employment. Social dialogue and consultation of public employment policies. Occupational health, because there is no decent employment if there is no health or guarantees for workers. Strengthening labour inspection, to continue combating labour fraud. Transformation of the public employment system to make Lanbide a useful tool for the training and integration of workers. A new 2030 employment strategy, with a long look at the world, which has already changed, and with a country vision; and it will involve all social and economic actors as well as institutional actors. And institutional collaboration, to avoid overlaps and inefficiencies. And also, as I said before, political stability and serenity, which is a country investment, and which we often forget, sometimes. Because governments do not create jobs, he said before, but the conditions to make it possible. And for that, we need serenity. And today, Euskadi presents itself as a suitable territory to take advantage of the great transformative opportunities, which are the first step in creating employment. And that is because we have for a few years been focused by the Basque Government on the importance, on a day-to-day basis, of providing those certainties that citizens need in their lives. And they need confidence. And we would also like to count on all to favor among all that scenario of stability and tranquility. And we look at our surroundings and we see that the important thing is forgotten: that we are in a more uncertain crisis than anyone else we have experienced before. And that is not the time either to make campaigns or slogans easy, sometimes, on these issues. Because the pandemic has changed everything, and we can't just keep doing things the way we used to. And that's what I agree with you about. I'm talking about innovation, new formulas to look for that quality job. And I also believe that we must innovate in politics, and not allow ourselves to be dragged away by inertia. The opposition, I must also say, the opposition does not rule, the opposition, neither when there are absolute majorities, nor when there are no. The opposition can influence the government's public policies, it must control the executive. But surely EH Bildu can contribute to the road map that has already been decided by the Basque Government, the government program, sure they can contribute from their group. We do not request accession contracts to that road map. We ask to assume the reality that we are living and to commit ourselves to the country and its future, and to the Basque Parliament as well as to the Congress of Deputies, which is also where we can work to change certain legal frameworks that will allow us to end the temporality, precariousness and all these things, which I am very happy that you have discovered, after so many years of not using your seats.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. 9th point on the subject list: "Ask me, find Casanova Alonso EH collect members of the team of the Economics Department of Economics, patience, and environmental Chief of the Department, about the plans of my having two companies shut down by Gestamp." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u57	Yeah. Anytime. It's a day of discovery. We discover how to use seats and a socialist discovers that governments do not create jobs. Today, we need to talk about a mass release that Gestapo wants to do. And first of all, our most warm farewell and union with us, for the workers inside and outside. I'll show you some documents. First of all, some pictures you won't see, but "El President insurgentera la matricería de Gestamp en México." "Gestamp today inaugurated its new Matsusaka plant", Tapia andrearen argazkiarekin. A publication of your Urkullu's Facebook proposed as a Gestapo company. A contract of 2015, to create GTA formation space between fun and Gestamp. Another 2019 contract, between fun and Gestamp, in this case, research and development. And there's another contract we don't know yet, but what we've asked to make an investigation around electric cars. Gestamp and fun, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Sometimes it's hard to know where one starts and the other ends. Clearly, there's a close relationship. And we don't think it's wrong. We believe that the role of the government is a close relationship with corporations. But that they should be balanced. In relationships, when only one side contributes, we are facing a toxic relationship. We'd like to be in touch with you guys, you know, symbiotic relationships, for everyone's benefit. But sometimes relations become parasitarians only when, on account of corporations, there is power or effort to borrow money, and when commitments are refused from them. If there's a relationship, there's a close relationship. And our question is: Are you going to use that close relationship to avoid the mass fire that Gestamp wants to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u58	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief physician, and fellow members of the law, and good morning to all of you. Mr. Casanova, I'm glad that we've talked a lot about the relationship between you and me, and at least we've got an arrangement in it. We often do. And in this case, well, we shall speak longer, but as we have a connection with other enpres, in this case also with the Gestapo. And we use it for two things, the other for things; and, on the other hand, when such a subject is presented, or happens, to direct it, and talk to the workmen, and talk to the company, and make the best possible solution. So we'll use our relationship, too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u61	Thanks again. Lehen aipatu doubt Facebook publikazioan, Urkullu lehendakariak zera esaten zuen: "We have inaugurated Gestamp Matricería Puebla, the new plant of Gestamp in Mexico, the best exponent of the path that the Basque economy must travel and an example in the processes of internationalization". Esaten said – this ohikoa bear of the munduan self-gintzaren –, taken hornitzaileak joan behar say the undertaking nagusiaren ondora, it is when installed you behar say it, it is horrek laguntzen duela taken hori sometzen, jaioterrian bay is. We are told that internationalization is an aid to strengthen the parent company, also in the territory itself. However, what Gestamp is doing, and what Gestamp wants to do, is not a healthy process of internationalisation, but it is a clear process of relocation: it will move production to other plants to seek greater cost reduction. And that's something this country can't afford. A law on relocations, against relocations, could be in force, requiring companies to be held accountable in such cases. But his Government, the parties that supported his Government, refused to admit it to procedure in the past legislature. We are clear that this government has to have all the pressure capacity on the table, and it has to question each and every one of the agreements, aid and relations it has with Gestamp if this company remains committed to sending 230 workers to the streets, after having won hundreds of millions in recent years and being an absolutely solvent and profitable group. We demand it from Gestamp, and we ask his Government. And, of course, we have made a commitment, like EH Bildu, that in the 20 days that we have left – because it is a countdown before the ERE consultation period ends and these 230 people go to the street – we will do everything in our power to question each and every one of the aids that Gestamp has received in the past, that it is receiving in the present and that it can receive in the future, if it does not reverse this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u62	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u63	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, on our side, of course, we'll use all the resources. And besides, we stayed there with the workers and the company. But you must know, you have mentioned a subject, and I shall mention another. The sector of auto-making was already in trouble, because the matrixary and the trucleries are, after all, connected with the departure of new models, and as to the departure of new models, there was a pause, a very fat one, before COVID. On the other hand, it is true that the sector of auto-making requires that cars should be helped where cars are created or managed, and where they are produced, and that is not news. So, on our side, you're talking about commitments to the Gestamp company. I'll talk about four. One, about the formation, you mentioned about Gcia. Why? Because this company brought in the Euskula, not only a few jobs in the whole group, but the whole team, the whole multinational group, the whole formation that has been made, the new formation, and the place where men are to be formed to fit new needs, has brought to Euscarate. And because they have the chance of staying there, those people who come from the world. Second, internationalization, and you used to talk about Puebla's company. Well, Puebla's company, it's true, is a company we have together. GGM company. And in consequence of this, whatever is done in Pæblan is organized from Basques; it is prepared; it is produced there, but it is prepared from this point. On the other hand, Gestamp managed to bring us a job that he did in Sweden and interact here. So I think that's done too. And the last contract, we've got it in a kind of world-level fight and in a fit fight with other companies, and in a fit fight, a scene of stuccoiness, a research center, an electric car, and a smart one. So, I think there's one thing that I'm supposed to do, some commitments are following, not another thing, because it's the same company, but you have to fight different ways and you have to take different measures. In that sense, I'm still working with that company, as we say, to put different measures on the table, and something already at the bargain will find a way to find it, and make it as good as possible. And if you're not alone in this department, you'll be doing everything you need to do from the Enplegu and the Department of Job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interrelation, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Gordillo Pérez, a popular, a member of the Ciudadans, made to the head of the Treasury and Ogas, about the establishment of private education and private sanitation, and the information and expressions which have just appeared upon the establishment of the treaty." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President, Members of the Government, Mr Azpiazu, ladies and gentlemen. Well, Mr Azpiazu, the question I put to you today, which you have already read in advance and I understand that you also have a more or less prepared answer, I imagine also the argumental thread, but I think it was necessary to raise an inquiry in this regard so that the Government could soon clarify this issue, I imagine that it was waiting for the meeting of the Basque Finance Council to have the forecasts, to finish profiling, I imagine, your budget, and to present to the Economic Commission your team, your government, forgiveness, your team, your plan, etc., your plan of government, etc. What happens is that, of course, the economy, well, if politics has its times, the economy the truth is that it always goes ahead, also today, and in that sense this inquiry has its origin because in a series of statements; in fact it has its origin in a report misread by – in my opinion – the Central Government of the AIReF, on the topic of concerted education, ways or ways of increasing the collection to feed the public budget and therefore its burdens, assuming not an increase, but subject to VAT, value added tax, concerted public education, as well as health, forgiveness, concerted and private education, as well as private health, in this case. Well, this is something we are particularly concerned about. These statements, then, probe type balloon, gave rise to a series of, well, cross-representations as well. You have said several times that it is not time to raise taxes, which we share 100% with you, with your department, and in that you can count on our support. But it is true that the central government, of which VAT is competent, indeed – VAT, which is a tax which, although its regulation is subject to European Union law, is the responsibility of the central government to set the margins, could raise it up to 25%, let us hope that it does not, is at 21 % at the most right now – and, on the other hand, it is the responsibility of the Members of Parliament to manage it, with which the Basque Government here operates, well, you who also preside, or who is on the Basque Finance Council Commission, because there has to be coordination with the collecting bodies. All of this we already know, but the truth is that it is something that is especially concerned, we are concerned, and above all, it is especially concerned about the situation and what public and private health implies in Euskadi. I really don't envy you for the position you have, because the truth is that being an Economic Advisor has to be the closest thing to being Dr. No, because all the departments, when they're making the budget, will go where you and you will have to, you will be Mr. No, that of the wand, that you don't, that you don't, and the truth is that I imagine that the allegation is important, and I, go ahead, have a personal recognition and I have a good intellectual opinion of you, also of your predecessor, Mr. Gatzagaetxebarria, a very well-trained person, as well as your vice-advisor, Mr. Hernando, and I really hope that your department will carry out the policies that we also believe are very necessary. There will therefore be an opportunity, as I say, to discuss these issues in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which concerns me in this case, well, to preside, and here you will give us the relevant explanations, which we are looking forward to, personally, even with a little bit of impatience, but we are on it. And before I put the question directly to you, I would like to share some issues which, although they will obviously arise again in this House throughout this legislature, because the point of this legislature, in the end, very important, the tractor point, is going to be the economy, essentially, which will depend on the rest of public policies, of course, but I would like to share a number of issues and data, situations of macroeconomic, national, global and local perspective. I have read with great interest the report that they have provided to the groups on the Government, the government programme, I have read with great interest the three principles, the structure, the truth, here it is noted that those responsible for organizing projects and others, with the commitments, I do not know what, the indicators, the responsible ones... have there the second principle, to reactivate the economy and the employment, that they also expect to place the unemployment rate below 10%. Felipe González I think he was the first one who promised to create 800,000 jobs, it didn't go very well, but well, there's room for manoeuvre to set the unemployment rate... a percentage is true that it is less shocking than a quantity, but in the end, as has also been said before and with that part I can agree, governments do not usually create jobs, only public employment. It is obviously the economic activity of companies that creates jobs. I was worried about one thing on the program, I simply point it out here, we will discuss it later, but I was worried about the aspect that in the responsibility of the various commitments, your department in the end I think it takes only three really, that is, it takes on attracting investment, it strengthens economic self-government, that is, the 150, which for me is the most important, it manages public resources responsibly. Reading the programme, there are a number of questions, for example, that I think it will be the fundamental axis, and that is why this inquiry, so that we have time to look at it calmly, the Framework Programme of an interdepartmental nature, which, although it appears assigned to Lehendakaritza, I hope it will take it, come on, if it does not take its department I imagine it will be with magnifying glass looking at it, because it is the program that ultimately affects or ends up affecting all departments, of course, it is formally assigned to Labour and Employment, sorry, it is formally assigned to Lehendakaritza, but I hope that your department has something very important to say. And then the close collaboration with the Spanish Government in the materialization of the... That of close cooperation with the Spanish Government is something that I find interesting, because, in economic matters, I believe that cooperation with both the national Government and the European Union is very important. Then there is a topic on page eight, which I imagine is also the product of the agreements that you have to make, the will to proceed to a review of taxation. It is true that your team has managed to put many exceptions there, but of course, to carry out a tax review... here when it comes to carrying out a tax review is never to lower it, it is always to raise it, then, and move towards a more progressive taxation. This is an announcement that I am certainly concerned about, and I would like it to ease my concern, you have here the opportunity to do so today. And I'm already getting into it. In the economic situation in Euskadi I am also a little concerned about the difference in the data, well, the magnitudes with which your Government has worked, the difference in the reference indicators that your Government uses, and then those of the AIReF in the recent October report, which I imagine you will have read with magnifying glass, because, of course, you propose and base your budget, you will base the forecasts, and therefore I imagine that the budget, on a GDP growth of about 9%, 8.9. On the other hand, the AIReF, which you have already read, does not leave you with 4, between 3,4 and 3,4. 3,9 %. It is true that it says "without incorporating the European plan", because, of course, you expect to draw out five points of GDP with the European plan, so let's see, and I understand that you will say "no, man, these will be tractor projects that, in turn, will attract more investment, etc." Well, we'll have to see it. But, man, I think five points is ambitious. In this case, I think you are part of the Montoro school, that budgets are rather objectives or long-term wishes, but, well, I think that also that difference, that I think the AIReF has asked you what data or methodologies you have used for that calculation, it's okay, I think, to clarify it, that it's a difference of almost five points between what you expect to grow, that we grow, and what the AIReF has proposed. As for employment, the AIReF also proposes that the Basque Government has forecasts that say, "very optimistic", in the diplomatic language of the officials of the AIReF, 7.9% of employment growth, – I mean 2021, all are data of 2021, as you have well warned – and the Airef speaks of between 3 and 3.1. That is, 8%, we say here, or you say we're going to grow, a 3.1, points out the AIReF, that in this the truth is that it's usually quite right. Yesterday was the meeting of the Basque Finance Council, which we all expected. In this case, I am pleased with your statements – far more cautious than those of the three deputies-generals who practically launched bells on the flight – on the other hand, you said: "the fall is important in the collection". I think that's important to have it, around 2 billion, then you have better data than I do. Of course, this, when there's a difference between what you want to spend and what you're going to enter, few solutions exist, or you raise taxes, or debt. You have already announced the issuance of a 1.4 billion-debt package. It's true there's room. Debt, for me, is for short-term moments, not so much for it to be systemic. In this respect, the increase in VAT in health care and in public and private education, I insist that it is something that worries me for many reasons. Because of the structure that this has in our community. The majority of educational establishments are of social initiative, not for profit; the public-private collaboration and the necessary balance that there is, in addition to the freedom to choose, are, in my opinion, very important, in addition to the fact that these companies also create jobs and also contribute to the development of the economy. You have said this – you will certainly have the opportunity to repeat it – but I would really like to hear from you here today in Parliament – and this is the question and I will finish with this – what is your department's position on this information regarding the possible increase in the regulation of this VAT which affects education and health.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u66	Thank you. Time's up. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u67	Mr. President of the Parliament, chief of the Department, members of the legislature. Mr Gordillo, first of all, I would like to congratulate you very much on your appointment as chairman of the Committee on Economic and Financial Affairs and Budgets. I am sure that our work and cooperation will be fruitful in this committee. Zorionak for it. And what I have to move forward with is that almost everything you have put to me today here we are going to talk about it on Wednesday in the committee, with which, I think, because they are topics that require a lot more detailed explanations, we will do it there. Today I would like to speak more about the content of your inquiry strictly, which I believe is also of great interest. Although, as you said, it is not strictly up to us in this House to take decisions on this matter. Good. Going into what is the content of your inquiry, I have to tell you that you have surprised me, first of all, because it is a hypothetical and speculative issue, in principle, for an inquiry in this House, isn't it? I understand your concern regarding the possible elimination of VAT exemption in private health and education, and that concern I fully share with you. In that sense, therefore, little could be discussed. It would have been more relevant if you had transferred the initiative to your parliamentary group of citizens in the Congress of Deputies, as I can do to the Basque group as well, so that this issue is discussed in that House, which is where you have the competence to take action, right? This Councillor can therefore debate this issue, but if you ask me, even more as a citizen than as a Councillor per se, because I insist, this House does not have that capacity. We would like to have that normative capacity – and we have claimed it politically on more than one occasion – but neither this Parliament nor the General Councils of the historic territories have it. Do not doubt, however, that we will continue to claim it, under the Economic Concert. Therefore, knowing that little more than trying to persuade Mr Sánchez's Government not to increase the taxation of value added tax to private education or health, we can do, but I will try to offer him our political position on it. On more than one occasion, recently, when I was asked about taxation and the need to carry out a tax reform – and you said it today – I answered – and I wanted to do so with a certain degree of strength – that it is not the time to raise taxes, none, neither this nor others, it is not the time, we are suffering a severe health, emotional and economic crisis, and we have to get out of it as soon as possible. This requires the promotion of public policies, especially those most affected, such as health and education, in both public and private health and education. Health and education are priorities that we cannot give up; on the contrary, we have to support and push them without restrictions. The collaboration of all is essential to get out of this stumbling block. I think this is the most important message I would like to convey to you right now. A rise in taxes would run counter to what economic policy needs today; it would restrict demand and delay economic growth. And today what we need is to grow, get jobs back and reduce inequalities. Today, debt-financed public spending is one of the few economic policy strategies we have at our disposal. And you have to use the debt, too, as I said, in times of need. I think that right now, Mr Gordillo, we can agree. And it's not a little bit. In any case, Mr Gordillo, as far as I have been able to know with regard to the Government's intentions to abolish VAT exemptions on health and education, this issue seems more like a probe to know the reaction of the economic, social and business players concerned than a firm will of the Government. I also do not know whether everyone in the Government itself agrees, whether Mr Sánchez has a sufficient consensus even within his own Government. However, I do want to say that qualified representatives from the private educational world have moved my great concern over this issue, about the possible adoption of this measure. I insist, concern I share with them and, as far as I can see, also with you, Mr Gordillo. So, at least this interpellation can help us to clearly express our opposite position that this measure can be adopted. Several media outlets recently published the alleged intention of the Ministry of Finance to propose the elimination of the VAT exemption from private education and health. And, according to several statements by the Minister of Finance, María Jesús Montero, they are nothing more than working documents and at least so far there is no firm fiscal proposal that they can communicate. Therefore, we will have to wait for that proposal to really come forward, if it does, and it does occur in the sense that you point out. A firm proposal or a preliminary draft law or any official communication within the scope of coordination and collaboration established in the Economic Agreement between the State and Euskadi, and know well whether the terms of the proposal really exist. Because a proposal of this kind would really affect, affect, and a lot of that from different perspectives. As you all know, value added tax is a harmonised tax throughout the European Union, where the regulatory capacity of states is limited to certain aspects expressly provided for in Community regulation. In particular, as regards certain health and educational goods and services, which are the subject of this inquiry, the VAT Directive expressly states that those supplied by an entity governed by public law will be exempt from tax. And it also allows this exemption to be granted to education and private health under certain circumstances. In the case of health services, it would be possible to charge them at a reduced rate. However, educational services are not among the goods and services liable to be taxed at a reduced rate, so that, if the exemption is removed, they could not be taxed more than 21 %. Since the creation of VAT in the year 85 in the State, both health and private education have been exempted, with hardly any significant changes since its adoption. According to the Tax Benefits Report In the meantime, as I said to you, the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has no regulatory competence in this tax, not even in the aspects expressly provided for in the Community regulation, and therefore the outlaws must adapt the outlaws of each of the territories to what is approved in the Congress of Deputies. This is in accordance with article 26 of Law 12/2002 of 23 May approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, which states that value added tax is a concerted tax governed by the same substantive and formal rules as those established at each time by the State, with the exception of the models and time limits for admission. And the collection will correspond to the outlaws, depending on the place of the tax domicile, whether or not the total volume of operations of the previous year exceeded 10 million euros and whether it was operated exclusively in outlaw territory or not. Having said that, and assuming that it is not for this Basque Government, as I said, to decide on the exemption to which it refers, and with regard to the department's position on the elimination of the exemption, we believe that it must be borne in mind that such a measure can never be assessed in a way that is, moreover, isolated, nor by a proposal that has not been sufficiently debated before the various institutions concerned. Because the impact of a measure of these characteristics cannot be analysed only from the possible impact, for example, on families. One point in relation to the assumption of the cost by families: it must be borne in mind that, if the exemption is eliminated, the entities providing the health and education services may deduct the VAT borne which was not deductible before the amendment, which increased the cost of the health or education service. Therefore, the possible impact on families or the viability of companies providing these health or educational services from a full perspective should always be analysed, without losing sight of the operation of this tax, such as VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u68	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu, Pedro María, for your clarification and, above all, for the political position of the Basque Government on this issue in your department. Because, I insist, as you have also said in your reply, it is a matter of great concern to families and also to very committed people and high officials of educational and health institutions in the Basque Country Community, who have also transferred it to us. We, too, in the parliamentary group and in the parliamentary groups of the coalition, are certainly concerned about this and we are also moving the initiatives there. And that is why it is something that certainly worries a lot and was the purpose of this inquiry. Obviously, then, apart from the appearance you will make in the committee, and then what we will work on, because it gives me the feeling that by February you will have us very busy in the committee, for the good of the population and for the good of the community, and we will also gladly have the opportunity to discuss these issues much more carefully. But it is true that the purpose of this inquiry, in addition to a presentation, of a first contact, and, above all, that request for the Government's position that, I insist, we share, to raise taxes, in our opinion, is never the solution. To raise taxes, in our opinion, may be eventually, but it is not a systemic solution for us. The issue of resorting to debt, either. And I'm telling you here, I've almost forced you to say these statements, which I expected where you were going, especially because you in this legislature are going to hear many mermaid songs in the preparation of budgets, and you're going to hear quite a few requests to "go easy." Because when there are such situations, it always tends to the easy way, that is to raise taxes, that is to increase debt and not to carry out the reforms that are always necessary. That is why, although I insist that we will have the opportunity to talk about this calmly, I think it is very convenient to use, in addition, those European funds that have already been spoken of in this House, which, by the way, were talked about whether they were going to be negotiated or that they were going to be chosen in a consensual way, there have been groups here that did not make it very clear, but, well, those European projects certainly are not to finance current expenditure, as you know well, but they are to be used for specific projects, I believe that they must be used to reform the structure of the Administration, certain structures, certain aspects of our economy that make it more competitive and, above all, that make it an innovative economy and an economy that creates jobs. Because, I repeat, job creation is something that depends essentially on the private sector. That's why there are some ideas we'll aim at. And, by the way, with the party that you share with in this case Government, which I imagine will also be there marking them in matters of expenditure and so on, I would like to claim a report made by that Government in its day, which was the report on overlaps within the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. A report which, when changed from government, disappeared on the servants of the Basque Government and which spoke, man, of the overlaps that existed in the Autonomous Community, therefore, if these disappeared, could be saved between 360 and 400 million euros per year, which are, I insist, 400 million euros more for education, for health, for public services. I simply point out to you these questions, which we will have the opportunity to discuss in another area, in another situation. But, and with this I would like to finish, I would say that what I would like, above all, on economic issues, is a sincere discussion based on data and, above all, also on objectives and indicators that are always clear. And budgets that are not only credible, according to the objectives and according to the growth forecasts, which I understand you are working on right now, but, above all, also in terms of implementation. It is true that the implementation of the budgets in the Autonomous Community "I imagine that is the room for manoeuvre that you always count on," there is a lack of significant execution. In the last financial year, I do not know if nearly EUR 1 billion remained unimplemented. I mean, I think the important thing about budgets, which is obviously a tool for government, social policies, the rest... But it has to be a credible tool. And it would be nothing more than, moreover, in the committee, in addition to making the budget, in addition to then approving the budget, then making a meeting, a committee to see how the implementation of the budget has been, and to analyse possible elements of improvement. I remain with your statement, and you will have our full support in that aspect relating specifically to education and health, and I hope that, perhaps, on other issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u70	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u71	Mr Gordillo, you have put a lot of debates on the table, which were not strictly those that corresponded to the inquiry, but it seems to me very good that you have put all these debates, because we are going to talk about these issues long and stretched out whenever you want, of course, in committee or wherever. These are issues of concern to you and are issues of concern to us and are issues that we really need to talk about. I believe that this will allow us all to move forward, at least to clarify each other's positions. I told him earlier that, in fact, in addition to the impact on families, with regard to the subject of interpellation strictly, it is absolutely necessary to assess the net increase in the declaration that would occur when the exemption was abolished, as well as the increase in public expenditure that could result from the potential increase in the demand for public health and education. The public provision of some health and education services should even be reviewed so that, should the exemption be approved, there is an option to go to the public sector, to the public system. We cannot, therefore, make it clear that such a measure would also have an important impact on the policies of the Basque Government. Therefore, and answering your question again, we do not see at present, at a time like the present, with a pandemic, in which the important thing must be to focus on solving the situations that occur daily in the field of health or education, to propose measures that can destabilize these sectors, which are so basic. There will be time, Mr Gordillo, when the pandemic and this economic crisis pass, to review and reflect above all, but also on the tax system and decide which part of the cost of the crisis we must face in the short term those who are living and working here today, in Euskadi, and which part will be borne by future generations, who will have to face the debt that we are assuming today. That is an essential debate, which will have to be done when the picture improves, but it is a debate that does not touch today. In any case, Mr Gordillo, I thank you again for your inquiry and for the opportunity to share a common position with regard to VAT on private education and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u72	Thank you, Chief, Mr. Subaz. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Muriel Larre Lasoa, the popular Group of the Ciudadanians, the planetion, Housing, and the chairman of the transportation department, about the state of Hernanic citizens who have played the rental contract on the Houses of Houses." Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u73	Good morning. Thank you, President. Every five years we see the same situation in the media: the Basque Government, through Etxebide, announces to the tenants of the houses of Sagastialde, in Hernani, owned by this agency, that their contract is improper and that they must leave the houses. They resort and request to be relocated to other homes, and the Administration's response is to prolong their uncertainty by providing temporary solutions. In view of this recurring situation, we ask the housing councillor to answer the following question: What is his department's assessment of the eviction of housing in the municipality of Hernani?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Larrea, I must confess that I was quite surprised by the content of your question. He uses the term "accommodation" to refer to the accommodation facilities of Sagastialde, in Hernani, and speaks of "disposal". It also indicates that the situation in this promotion is occurring every five years. Starting at the end, it can hardly be said that the situation is recurrent in the ADA of Hernani, for a simple reason: the initial award took place in May 2015, so that now is the first time that the contracts of the users end, at the end of the five years. And it is that, as you will know, accommodation facilities are not considered housing for legal purposes, nor do they have the vocation to permanently accommodate residents. As the Housing Act 2015 specifies in detail in its article 23, it is a housing solution to provide transitional and temporary responses – and uses this term up to three times – to the groups for which it is intended, mainly young people and people with special needs. All the successful tenderers knew from the first day that the occupation of ADAs is temporary; this was clearly communicated both in the contract and in the order in which the summons was opened to be signed, and I read it: "Assignment regime. Assignment of accommodation shall be temporary in nature. In no case shall the assignment be extended or renewed after the fifth year of the assignment, so that after five years the accommodation must be abandoned." The reason is that, after these five years, other applicants may have access to live in these accommodations under the same conditions as the current occupants had in their day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u76	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u77	I give you the reason, Mr. Arriola. Sagastialde hasn't happened in five years. But it's just that this kind of situation, when you're talking about rooms or furnished apartments or furnished housing... Let's see, here what it is about is giving housing, or giving a housing solution to people who have difficulties, and that difficulty for five years is not fixed, because their situation has not been fixed. So what I want to say is that the housing problem in the Basque Country is not addressed in an integral way. The Basque Government, and I have heard it before, that almost 30% of the houses promoted by the Basque Government are rented. It was supposed to be 100%, because, you know what happens? What have you done for many years? And I'm glad you came to this idea. It turns out that the young people put our hope and our idea of life into a draw, because what the Basque Government was doing was lots for the sale of homes at a more affordable price so that the young people could access them, but it turns out that our lives depended on a draw. This changes, because it turns out that young people can no longer even access the purchase of these homes, and what they need are rental homes. But I will set an example for you with the social rental policies that this government has been carrying out for quite a long time. In San Sebastián, in Gipuzkoa, we have more than 9,000 people on the Etxebide list for social rental, but do you know how many social rental homes we have in San Sebastián? 916, is that not a 10%. Those 9,000 people will end up going to the free market and may not have the resources to have decent housing in the conditions they need. Therefore, their housing policies have lacked soul, and they continue to lack soul, and they must strengthen efforts in this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u79	Mrs Larrea, indeed, the housing policies that the Government has to push, and that we are pushing, try to offer, to the extent of our capabilities, solutions to people who have difficulty accessing housing. In particular, as far as these ADAs in Hernani are concerned, I must say that, in March, the Gipuzkoa delegation informed these persons, whose contract expired, that the application of Decree-Law COVID-19 of urgent measures in the field of housing was automatically extended to them for six months. In the same communication, they were also encouraged to apply for recognition of the subjective right to housing, if they met the conditions, and also to register in the Etxebide register, since they are recognized as old age the time they have been occupying the endowment accommodation. In addition, since the measures of the above-mentioned Decree-Law have recently been extended until 31 January this week, the affected persons were informed last week of an additional extension. On the other hand, 12 persons who meet the conditions of the subjective right have been informed that they will have housing for social rent. And the municipality of Hernani, with which we are working closely, has been told what value through their social services if someone else is in a vulnerable situation, in order to find them a solution as well. As you can see, we are working from the department, and we have acted, within the rules, with the greatest flexibility and sensitivity, taking into account the moment we are going through and the housing needs that bind thousands of people in Euskadi. And we work not only on housing policies – which, by the way, from this year on, all government promotions will be 100% for rent – but also on other policies, such as rent payment aid. And to tell you that half of the housing claimants in Etxebide have recognized an aid...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u80	Thank you, chief physician. Your time is up. Time's up. fourteen points in theme list: "Ask me, Unai Fernandez de Betoño Saenz de Lacuesta EH Team Members for the planetion, Housing and Transport Commander, about undoing the contract of the Donstrotic subway." Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u81	Good morning, everyone. On the 7th of October, the commander of Arriola made a public scene in the porticos of the Conquera, where he announced that the intermediate works of the Miraconcha will be dissolved. We want to know by what criterion the contract of the work will be dissolved under the terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u82	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, the decision on the termination of the contract for the Miraconcha-Easo section, the metropolitan variant of the Topo de Donostia, was already anticipated two weeks ago, as well as the reasons for this measure. The decision is bound by article 107 of the consolidated text of the Public Sector Contracts Act, since –in addition to the fact that two modified projects have already been approved in this work – the technical solutions to be introduced in order to solve the problems of subsoil stability detected legally prevent, by their nature and cost, to modify on the march the awarded project, as they involve an alteration of the essential conditions of the tender and the award. In particular, in this case, at least the circumstances referred to in subparagraphs (b) and (e) of Article 107.2, which preclude the modification of the initial contract would be given where this would entail altering the initial relationship, altering the relationship between the contracted benefit and the price, as defined in the award, and where it may be assumed that, if the necessary changes had previously been known, other interested parties might have attended the competition, or that the tenderers who attended might have been able to submit substantially different tenders. These assumptions are given in the contract of this section, so, in accordance with the spirit and the letter of the law, ETS will proceed to its termination and to bid a reformed project that collects the interventions required to complete the works with the utmost security and speed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u84	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u85	Chief Arriola, I think you're acting like you're paying this piece out of your pocket. We need transparency. We want to know exactly what happened. We know you're going to surrender the contract, but we want to see what technically happened. You must have made a technical report to explain what happened. For now, in the dissolution of the contract, it must be said whether the indemnizations are in one or the other direction, and that is why the cares must be abolished first. You think it's all done well. This is where you said 105 sodeo was made for the geotecnic, and you gave the same figures in the press. We've gone to see the imperfect project in 2016. We've seen those 105 sodeons. Almost half of these 105 sodas are from other works. It's where the soods go into the parking lot at Cervantes Square to make the parking lot of Reyes Católlicos, two of Morlans' works. You've even included St. Martin Market sodas in that list. Construative project of 2016 said that we had to make an additional sondeon. Do you know how many new sodas were made in the project? Seven. There are only seven so noodles in the cone, and only two in the hole at Easo. And besides, the sondeo was built in the conjuchase only at the depth of twenty feet. Do you know how deep the subway tunnel is at that point? 35 meters. And the same happens with Eison. The deepest of both kinds goes down to 15 meters. Do you know how deep the tunnel is at this point? Seven feet deep. So it's gone 11 to 12 meters. The sondeo has been few and poor information. So we want to know what kind of technical reports you've made before you sign the contract rescindation. If the Institutions are in one direction, because the cares may be political; and if they go the other way, we think there may be some technical care. If you don't explain any more, we'll begin to think that there's a direct relationship between these mistakes and between the Allocation stores, because the work was assigned to the 26th Bajada and the project was associated with the 28th Bajada. We want to know what happened, Chief Arriola. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u86	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u87	Mr Fernandez de Betoño, it will not be because of the lack of technical reports, which indeed have been, will be, and in the future it will also have to be. I would like to reiterate that the geological problems found at two very specific points in this section have not been due to a lack of studies and surveys. You've referenced some to me. What I said to him, and I say to him, is that 35 surveys and 16 geophysics profiles were made in this particular section. This situation has occurred because of circumstances that occur in complex projects, although the field of intervention has been thoroughly studied. And it is that there is no known public work of magnitude that has been free of incidences, especially when it runs through the subsoil of a densely consolidated urban plot. Two weeks ago I reminded him of the suspension and termination of the contract of the work of Antzuola-Bergara on the highway of Descarga in 2015. I remind you again, your group was at the head of the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation at the time. And the reason was also significant overruns due to geological problems detected in the plot, and that this one ran through an open ground and not through the subsoil of a city like Donostia-San Sebastián. I don't know if you demanded responsibility. You ask me to report on responsibilities, what happened here, we want to know. I don't know if you then demanded responsibilities, but I don't believe it. I don't think so, but they took over the situation, faced the problem in order to carry out a work that was necessary for Gipuzkoa. And you always talk about the social profitability of the project, and you always have to measure it in the medium and long term. And the variant of the Top is not just a project to go from the Old to the Shell, you should know. The variant of the Topo is a key work that is framed in a set of actions to serve about 65% of the population of Gipuzcoana, with frequencies approaching metro frequencies, to offer a modern, fast, sustainable and effective transportation system for all people moving in Donostialdea and between Zumaia and Irun, and to have an alternative to the use of the private vehicle in their movements. That's what it's for. A system that will be strengthened with the Riberas de Loiola exchanger and other actions that are fundamental to achieving this goal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u88	The 15th point in the theme list: "Interpelation, the popular team of Carmelo Barrio Barroja, member of the Ciudadans to the chief physician of the Medical Department, to invest in public health and COVID-19 vaccines." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u89	Thank you, President, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, councillor, councillor. The purpose of the inquiry is a very clear one: health needs to be improved. We need to improve our health, after the lessons we have all been able to learn. Authorities, citizens, professionals, and, in this case, it is a priority. It's a priority. We must also see it reflected in the Government's earlier actions. We have to see it reflected, logically, in their development, in their priorities, in their programme, in their budgets, and they have to tell us, and they have to tell us, above all, and in this case in particular, in this inquiry, which is based on concerns and needs for the future, for the immediate future. Concerns and needs about health, how to manage, in this case, public health, in this qualitative leap of needs that the public authorities have to face. We have known, there have been many forums and many public and internal debates, of associations, a recent forum also on public health and vaccinations, but there have been many more, in which they participated and have participated. I say again that such meetings, forums, conclusions and ideas on what needs to be done have spread in the Spanish sphere, at the international level. And we have seen in some of them, where they have participated fora of experts from different fields and disciplines, medical specialists together with professors or university professors, together with representatives of associations of patients or medical societies or scientific societies, biotechnological companies, biomedical, nursing specialists, analysts in health systems. I mean, and I say again, that this analysis that has been carried out in some very specific and very important forums, I suppose governments will have done that too. And in all these forums, fundamentally, there are a number of conclusions, I say again, in relation to public health, and very clear conclusions, in relation, moreover, to needs and the immediate future. Some of them are as clear as, well, some of them are common sense, but, in fact, you have to know then identify them and develop them, right? The pandemic has highlighted the key role of public health. The need for this discipline is for it to be strengthened, that is, this is so. We know the public health programs of the Basque Government, they are small programs in economic quantity, you know them also, the management, the one you have. And we have already talked about that once, that we need to strengthen those programmes and public health items as they were. It's proven, well, this, the pandemic, the COVID-19 has shown that these public health programmes need to be strengthened, and we need to see what is done. It is also stated in all these conclusions that investment in public health has often been relegated to a background. However, today, well, even more so after the health crisis we are experiencing, investing in public health is not an option, it is already an obligation. Also, among interesting conclusions that are put on the table, it has been said that the pandemic has provoked, that the COVID-19 has put a system, health care, which in itself was already facing major global challenges. I was doing it in relation to the chronicity, the aging, that is, that one more problem has been put on the table. That is why it is understood that it is more necessary than ever for governments, and all, both national and autonomous governments, to increase public investment with the aim of implementing strategic plans, for example, that is what those conclusions say, and tools, tools to prevent such risks, in addition to protecting and promoting health. Another conclusion – the work of many of these forums is linked to public health and vaccines – is that it is said how the purchase will be managed, among other things, the distribution of the future vaccine – hopefully it will arrive as soon as possible, when it is available – which has coincided with the need for centralisation of the purchase at European level, joining governments, with the aim of achieving a fair price and avoiding supply and supply problems. We would also be interested to know whether to that extent of the work on the vaccine, because here we have major biotechnological, biomedical, research companies, because they have been able to participate and, of course, it is important that they be tuned in and these efforts are made, too, by the support of the Government. When we raised this question, we still did not have the government program, which makes a legislative approach, but today we need – the actions established by the government – but we need immediate action to strengthen public health and the immediate budgetary and health programmes. We have seen that there are some initiatives in the government program, chapter 11, health 1 and 3, of its government program, improving the integration of public health and services and health care, and it is logical that it is within the keys; 3, the public health law, within that commitment 71, to strengthen primary care. On the subject of the public health law, well, as the government programme with a timetable has not come, well, the public health law as we see it in this House in two years' time, but it is clear that actions to strengthen public health are necessary now. Indeed, the public health law will be discussed, analysed in this Parliament and understood what are the best keys to making a powerful legal instrument that strengthens public health from all we have learned. But the performances are necessary now. And it is also necessary that reference between society and among ourselves, between the system itself, to overcome the deficiencies in public health policies, which have been identified and which have been clear and which have had a leading role in the pandemic. There have been some circumstances, of course, impressive, tremendous, which have affected supplies of analysis, of PCRs, of equipment, of physical protection of citizens at certain times, often also of information, of contradictory information. And we have to be prepared. And that already requires analysis. And that's why this interpellation of more resources and more actions; and that's why our interpellation goes that way. In relation to the purposes of the Department of Health, the Basque Government – there are also budgets that are already being prepared, and already their department will be preparing them in the areas that correspond to them, and I say again, that public health is significant because of the small amount that it had, which it has historically had, what are the purposes of the Department of Health of the Basque Government, with a view to strengthening public health programmes, among which is the vaccination policy and strategy – the vaccination policy and strategy is one more within the public health chapters – after the eruption and effects of the pandemic of the COVID in our society. That is the issue, what measures, what instruments the Basque Government is going to adopt to strengthen those public health programmes, which have been demonstrated, and which the experts believe need to be strengthened as a priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u90	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u91	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Congressmen, good morning. Both in justification and in interpellation you refer, Mr Barrio, to two issues: a very generic one on how health programmes will be strengthened, following the outbreak of the VOCID-19 pandemic, and a very specific one on what will be the vaccination policy and strategy within the framework of those policies. In this respect, I would like to remind you of some issues that will not be unknown to you, because they have been told from the department on more than one occasion, on their own initiative and on questions from this House. The Department has aims and facts aimed at strengthening public health programmes. Starting with the latter, since the beginning of the pandemic, numerous actions have been taken from the Department of Health to deal with the new reality we have been living in since March. In relation to the facts, the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in our Autonomous Community appeared on 28 February 2020. In addition to the establishment of technical committees and the preparation of newsletters, protocols for the diagnosis and management of the disease were established. And, from the care perspective as well. Contingency plans were developed for the enabling and deployment of ICU beds, depending on each scenario; plans for the acquisition of breathing equipment, anesthesia tables, infusion pumps, ICU beds, echographers, monitoring centres, etc. were established; a human resources plan was defined to strengthen ICU staff with medical and nursing staff from the Osakidetza network as a whole, relocating experienced professionals and enhancing specific training and retraining to increase the number of professionals with competence to work in these units. In primary care, a key tool was developed, such as telephone consultations, both those of doctors and nurses with their patients, as well as consultations between primary and hospital care professionals. The crisis of COVID-19 has strengthened the relationship between primary and hospital care professionals. This is a value that should not be lost once the crisis is over. Emergencies. The Osakidetza Emergency Service has carried out two crucial tasks in the crisis of the COVID-19, transferring infectious patients and answering the phone of the Health Council, which became the reference of the citizenry for symptoms consultations on the COVID-19. In the socio-health field the creation of positive COVID-19 reference units in the residences, in collaboration with the outlaws. Support for the containment of COVID-19 from laboratories. The conduct of tests has led to an improvement in the logistics of selective sample collection, and has necessitated an adaptation of Osakidetza's information systems to integrate the results into the clinical histories and reports required for the Department of Health. All these measures have been accompanied by measures to reorganise staff, increase staff and training. And another novelty that has come to stay is the creation of a strategic stock of PPE and various protection materials for health workers, residences and other strategic services. Among the purposes: we are working on four documents that will be the department's guide in strengthening and expanding public health programmes. This is the future law on public health; the new Health Plan – both documents that go beyond the time frame of this legislature – the Bizi Berri document, of health transition, social and economic, that you already know, and, finally, the strategic framework that we are developing for the period 2021-2024. This document is still under construction, but I would like to advance some of the objectives that we envisage. Some are closely related to the current situation, conditioned by the COVID-19, and others transcend this current situation. For example, get tracking of all positives within 24 hours of diagnosis. The promotion of social and health care with special attention to situations of fragility of the elderly. The expansion of inter-agency and inter-sectoral collaboration, because public health and well-being transcend this department and calls upon society and institutions as a whole. Fight against inequality. The pandemic has revealed situations of social inequality between groups. That is why we want to devote special attention to vulnerable groups, older people, people with disabilities, people from the LGTBIQ+ group, migrants. Creation of a health observatory that will help us better planning and decision-making and, of course, consolidate our health system and its instruments: hospital care and primary care, with a person-centred care and involving new investments in infrastructure, equipment and people. And I stick to the most specific issue of vaccinations. The Department of Health continuously assesses the situation of the COVID-19 pandemic in Euskadi in order to adapt the protocols and means of response in coordination with the rest of the autonomous communities. With regard to future vaccination against COVID-19, little can be done at this time. We are still in a waiting phase until we know how many vaccines will be finally authorised and the dates on which they will be available, as well as the amount of doses that can be used initially, but there is no doubt that we are alert, we are busy on it and we are dedicated to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u93	Thank you, President, thank you, Counsellor. I assume that in the second round I will be given more information, I have no doubt about the issues that need to be addressed. And I used to tell you about the Department of Public Health's reduced budget for all these years. It is a budget, that is, I do not know how the budget distribution will work in this case, but so far public health had EUR 46 million, most of which, of course, operating expenses, of the structure of the department more than anything. And, well, and we saw games that would be ridiculous today, because we saw "Training in epidemiology", so, 15,000 euros, or, for example, "Type of emerging diseases", 5,000 euros, within a public health program. That is to say, we do understand that there has to be an effort, and that that effort has to be materialized in resources, and we would like to know what that forecast is in relation to those already budgetary programmes of direct action, already, in relation to public health and therefore to those international and expert considerations, that all those programmes must be strengthened, as we said in the first intervention. It is important that the law on public health is said at the beginning, which comes in the programme, but since we do not know when it will enter, we know how the process of drafting the laws is, it can be from one year to three years, until that moment and the result of the health crisis that we still live, because it is necessary to adopt a series of measures that you have to talk about and that you have to announce and that you have already, of course, planned in relation to the strengthening of the problems, I say again, of public health in the general concept, that public health, of public action, which also interferes with different administrations. Of course, it is led by the Government, but public health is largely the responsibility of other administrations, let's not say anything about the municipalities or the parliaments themselves in relation to this approach, is it? You have referred to the efforts of the professionals. Of course, that is the exemplaryness of this moment, but to those professionals we must continue to strengthen them, and I say again, to those who are dedicated to public health in a more determined way, and that is what we would like to see expanded and told what the forecasts are, and, moreover, that we must recognize that there have been dysfunctions, that we have to overcome those dysfunctions, and that we must do so now, and that is why we need to increase that public health budget and do so in a clear way. There is a question that does also fall within these keys, in public health. They work there and have to work, therefore, committees, experts, virologists, epidemiologists, forecasts, at a time like this also still of uncertainty, in relation to the future. That is, we have experienced, and you will know, a regrettable situation in relation to the disarticulation of what was the Advisory Council on Infectious Diseases, replaced in the midst of the pandemic by a political committee and, well, to make certain decisions. That didn't work out well, we've all seen that, and that's been recognized, right? That is an example of what cannot be, for in these matters there must also be reinforcement, there must be programmes. I suppose you will be working on the basis of advisory committees, scientists, on diseases of these characteristics that break into society in this brutal way, and what are those keys. We understand that this is information that is also important, that is also to strengthen these advisory committees, scientists, doctors, specialists. It is to strengthen public health programmes and we would like to know what plans you have in this regard too. Again, it is that strengthening of public health with expert people, something that has worked very poorly in the crisis during the pre-election period. We understand that these keys, the keys of experts, the keys to strengthening public health budget programmes, the keys to institutional coordination in public health matters are, of course, elements that must be strengthened together with that policy of being prepared for the acquisition of population immunization when it arrives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u94	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u95	The department not only has purposes and facts intended for the future, but has always had them, and especially during the development of this pandemic, for the strengthening of public health policies, and has had all the tools it has deemed necessary to manage it properly. As I have explained to you, cooperation between institutions is permanent. At the moment, in fact, work is being done within the technical group of the Pond of Vaccines of the Commission of Public Health in the criteria for prioritization of the vaccine against the COVID-19, contemplating several scenarios. Because we have learned something, and in that we fully agree, and that is that we are not sure about the development of the pandemic. Obviously, these criteria must be adapted to the reality of vaccines that are finally approved. And that has to be the case. And, in addition, those that are available. And of the therapeutic indications according to the age and groups to which the European Medicines Agency (EMA) finally authorizes its use. Infant and adult population, chronically ill, immunosuppressed, pregnant, most at risk groups. The European Union has established pre-purchase contracts with the currently developing VOCID-19 vaccine manufacturing laboratories. These vaccines, where available, shall be distributed among the Member States of the European Union on the basis of the criteria for prioritisation laid down. In Euskadi we have already started the purchase and preparation of the additional logistical material that will also be necessary for that vaccination (syringuillas, needles, different type of complementary material), in order to enable the vaccination, at the time we have the dose, to be a reality. Those concretions have to wait. Today we are absolutely focused on another campaign, on the influenza vaccination campaign. In this situation, with an increasing worrying curve in the incidence of influenza, it is crucial to avoid saturation of services and to maintain the health of our citizens in the best conditions. I can assure you that we are making an extraordinary effort to provide protection for people working in essential services, security for the whole population and to avoid overloading health care centres. And, of course, the collaboration between the various institutions at all levels, and our participation in all the forums established in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 16th point in the theme list: "The question is, that the members of Laura Garrido Knörre, the popular team of the Ciudadans, made to the head physician of the Medical Department, was the management of the Coronabirus, and the specific crew which has been created in the Council of National Medical System. " Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. Madam Counsellor, we ask you about an issue that has caused us a certain surprise, as you well know, because you participate in the Interterritorial Council, in which the Government and the Autonomous Communities participate. Within this body, it has been agreed to establish a working group to define an independent evaluation of the management of COVID-19. This working group integrated into the Inter-Territorial Council and formed by the Secretariat of State for Health, which chairs it, and a representative of each autonomous community, aims to define the lines of an independent assessment on the management of the pandemic crisis; ultimately, to establish a framework covering the scope, objectives, parameters and aspects that are necessary. The aim is undoubtedly to strengthen the National Health System, in order to meet with the maximum guarantees the challenges we face in the future and health crises like the one we are suffering. An evaluation that will certainly also identify the strengths and weaknesses of our National Health System and make decisions that may be relevant and necessary to strengthen epidemiological surveillance, public health services and overall health care. We ask you, Madam Counsellor, why you have caused us a certain surprise, what is the reason for demarcating from this working group. Maybe the re-centralizing obsessions of a government that sees ghosts where there are no ghosts? Why do they decide that Euskadi should be left out of a working group, whose conclusions, whose reflections, will surely be beneficial for the whole of Basque citizenship? It seems that Euskadi has set up its own working group. That can be very good. And it seems fantastic to us that Euskadi creates his own working group. But, Commissioner, the creation of this group cannot be an excuse not to participate in a larger-scale group, in which we can contribute our experience, our contributions, and benefit ourselves, and also to have information about the experience they are doing elsewhere. We therefore ask you why you have considered staying outside a working group. We certainly believe that Euskadi's participation in this group can benefit Basque citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u98	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u99	Mrs. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature. At the meeting of the Inter-Territorial Council on 7 October, it was proposed to establish a specific working group for the design of an evaluation of the National Health System during the pandemic. The National System. Euskadi did not agree to participate in the evaluation proposed by the ministry because we have our own health system and a Basque public health service: Osakidetza. We understand that it is here, in Euskadi, that we must carry out the analysis of the management of the pandemic. Moreover, we are already exploring different options, as you have said, to start this work. That we did warn that we would make it available to the Spanish Government. And so we let the minister know. On the other hand, for months, we have been observing a process of re-centralization, in form and substance, in decisions taken or proposed by the ministry. We have already expressed this in May at the conferences of presidents, in what has been proposed as a national agency, and, recently, in the words of the minister himself, advocating for strengthening the national system. We believe that this is one more step in that direction, and therefore, maintaining an attitude of respect for the agreements adopted, and permanent collaboration with all the institutions, Euskadi has decided not to participate; yes, and I reiterate that, by making available what we do under our powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u101	Thank you, Counselor. Well, indeed, we are in the National Health System, and precisely in the Interterritorial Council the state and the autonomous communities participate. Indeed, there are health skills that are transferred, health skills, and we have, in that sense, Osakidetza, the Basque health system, as other autonomous communities have. And why do other autonomous communities participate? Do not other autonomous communities also have an Osakidetza, the Osakidetza in turn? I think, counselor, they're excuses. They are excuses that, moreover, make Basques lose an opportunity to benefit from the reflections and conclusions that emerge in a working group, when we are faced with a pandemic that is a global phenomenon and that is affecting us all, not only Euskadi, but the rest of the autonomous communities and the rest of the countries. He's telling us about the refocusing process. I think this is where the flag of recentralisation takes it out whenever they want. Because, with regard to the state of alarm in the Community of Madrid, I have not heard you or the Lehendakari or any member of the Basque Nationalist Party say anything. I do not know what you would say if you presented the figures of Madrid, what can happen, and the state of alarm is decreed in Euskadi as happened in Madrid, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u102	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u103	Mrs. Garrido, I'm surprised you're talking about surprise. What do you want me to say? Because if in recent weeks something has been seen in the Interterritorial Council it has been how jealous the People's Party is in defending health skills, where it has the responsibility of its government. No, no, I say this to you because in the Council on 30 September the Minister of Health laid down a number of technical criteria for applying in populations of more than 100,000 inhabitants when a number of circumstances related to the incidence of COVID or the availability of patient beds in the UCI-COVID. The measures: greater restrictions on the movement of people, entry and exit of municipalities, reduction of hours, more restrictive times. Techniques. In the first instance, we objected. Why, because the proper forms of a collaborative process were not maintained, and because no technical consensus had been reached on their content. In the Interterritorial Council, however, we finally voted in favour, yes, for two reasons: the first, because we agreed with the minister, with the ministry, that these measures could be modulated in their application according to the special circumstances of each case, and always in agreement with the competent institution, in this case the Basque Government. Which, according to what was published yesterday and today, we again question. In fact, the Council itself introduced the status of an open and live document, to be reviewed weekly by the technical commissions. And secondly, because we continue to bet on coordination, negotiation and agreement. And in that vote there were three PP communities that opposed the adoption of such measures. What has happened from now on, what each community has done in defence of its competences, is known, and it is not up to me to pronounce on it. I insist, we have a health system of our own, differentiated, full competence. A system that has worked, is working, and that we believe we should be subject to a specific evaluation. That's why we want our evaluation, because we have our system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Jule's Arzuga Gumunius EH, the parliamentary laws of the Society for equality, justice, and society, concerning the deaths of the prisoners who had been in Chancery." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u105	Good noon, everyone. For some time past, many deaths are being known to them in the country prison, even in the prices of jackals and Martutes. Last one, Igor Gonzalez of the political prisoner Sola. But it is true that he has the most formidable, the most disturbing statistics; for nine prisoners have died since he was gone. But about these cases, the darkness is great. The collective workers with prisoners accuse the absence of sycologists, the difficulty of an autopsy, the inmediation of the corpse, the swift, the lack of information to the families, the inquest. And I know it's not your jurisdiction, but we're worried about it, and I want to know if Mrs. Artolalarilla's concerned about that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u106	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u107	The head of the table, members of the legislature, all good days. Mr Arzuaga, we too share that concern and for us it is a regrettable news that saddens us and worries us. But also know that we have that information through the media. As you well know, we have no competence at the moment, and that information is transferred to us, we know it that way. To die in a prison is an additional suffering, both for the nearest environment of the dead person and for society in general. It makes me sad and uneasy as a citizen. It upsets me and worries me, but in the same way I take care of it as a political manager of a government which was to be in charge of prison institutions in the last decades, as it is received in the State of Guernica. A death in a prison entails added suffering, both for the nearest environment of the deceased person and for society in general. It saddens me and worries me, as a citizen and as a government. And I am saddened and worried, but I am also responsible for a government that should have been managing prison institutions for decades, as reflected in the Statute of Gernika. The Basque Government has achieved that, for the first time, a Spanish executive has assumed the need to comply fully with our Statute, which is another step in the construction of Euskadi. And, for the first time, the transfer of competence for the organization, regime and operation of institutions and prisons and for social reintegration appears on the political agenda of a calendar agreed between the Basque and Spanish representations. March is the date indicated for this historic transfer. And our goal is to improve and strengthen the resocializing character of prisons. I am convinced that a prison policy implemented from a rehabilitative perspective will generate a better, more integrated and safer society. And I trust, Mr Arzuaga, that in this common objective we will join forces both with the groups of the Government and with those of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u109	I'm well concerned, and now the initiative. In fact, I know it's not your jurisdiction. I know the transfer of this jurisdiction has been delayed for 40 years, and although it still takes a few months to delay, in less than five months, you'll have to act, and, well, you've got a little space to mentalize... Because, too, I know who's in charge, and maybe you had a chance to lift the phone and worry about the nine victims in front of the manager. Because, indeed, if you wanted to contact the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions, you will have noticed that it is a very distant institution. And I am not just referring to a matter of miles, but because it is impossible to ask him, because it is difficult to contrast information with that institution, to demand details, to demand responsibilities, even more so for these social organizations that work with prisoners. And this I think is going to change a lot with this competition, it's going to make it easier, because the one responsible is going to be you, it's going to be closer. I hope that it is also closer to these collectives, more open to these collectives. And I think he will have to give many explanations, because he will have to tell society, the families of the prisoners, these collectives, the parliamentary groups, why there is such a death in prison, in a prison which is now in our territory and which will soon be his responsibility. How the facts have been triggered, whether appropriate investigations have been launched and, above all, what you will do to prevent, to prevent these deaths. And that's what we're going to sue you in these months, to tell us how you intend to manage the prisons, because we do have expectations that this competition can be exercised in another way. If it is to exercise it, in fact, if it is to exercise it as the Spanish authorities are doing, we better not assume this competence. If we have this attribution, let it be to do otherwise. We did do our homework and prepared a document, Beste spectexe-politika batantz Euskal Herrian. 100 neurons EAIn spectexeen arloko skumena kudeatzeko And for that we understand that we must address a very long task, a list of actions, of priorities to be undertaken. I'd like to know if you've defined them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u110	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u111	The intention of this adviser in managing prison policy in Euskadi will be from coordination and closeness. And also from collaboration, as it cannot be otherwise. For us, the work done in the Basque Parliament to deepen and advance the design of a Basque prison model was, and is, very important, and will be one of our roadmaps. That document was worked in an intensive manner. A number of issues were addressed, those issues were agreed upon, and that will be one of the key elements for working on prison policy. I know and appreciate that work, which was approached on March 13, 2019 in this House, and where those resolutions were agreed. And those resolutions were integrated into a document that we have already worked on in the Government, under the leadership of the previous San José Councillor's team, in which we participate various departments, social actors and experts in this field. I would like to stress that we are going to work for a prison model that focuses on social reintegration, which promotes restorative practices and access to social rights. A more humanized and respectful model of human rights. With the transfer of competence in the management of penitentiary institutions, we will implement this Basque prison model working on three strategic lines: first, to enhance penalties and measures in an open environment, which are less harmful, which avoid the harmful effects of imprisonment and which are more effective and efficient in achieving preventive and reinsertive purposes. Secondly, build a Basque reinsertion network, a network that performs individualized and intensive care. And thirdly, to direct prison detention to reintegration. And those are going to be the fundamental axes of our action in the area of prison policy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 18th point in the subject list: "The question is, that Elisabet González Rodríguz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU, made by the head of the Divisions of Equality, Justice, and Society, 2018-2021 Houses concerning the Euscal Strategy for the College of Gabe." Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u113	Good noon, everyone. Chief Grocert, good noon. Today we come up with a subject that we consider very relevant, is synhogarism. Tomorrow is the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty and Social Exclusion, and October 24 is the Day of Homeless Persons. These days serve as a reminder that, in our society, there are things that don't work normally, such as the fact that there are people who don't have a roof to sleep under. Moreover, with the confinement the terrible situation and the paradox of "stay at home" for those who do not have a home has been revealed. In October 2018, the last official night count of people staying in the street, as well as those who were in the different centres and services, was carried out. At the moment, 435 persons were counted. These people, the number of people had doubled in the last two years; that is, in Euskadi, at that time there were more than 2,000 people who had no home. Moreover, the level of occupancy of the centres was 80%. With the pandemic, and on the basis of the up-to-date data provided by the reports of the third sector organisations, and counting that we have a Basque strategy for the homeless that ends this year, Mrs Artolazabal, we want to know what the level of compliance is today, and how the planned guidelines of that strategy have been adapted.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u115	Thank you again, ma'am. Gonzalez andrea, aldez aurretik, lehenik eta behin, zurre galdera eskertu nahi said. Thank you for putting this Parliament's magnifying glass in policies aimed at the most disadvantaged groups. The Basque Strategy for Homeless Persons to which you refer is undoubtedly an appropriate tool to improve the system of care for homeless people, prevention and early intervention, with the aim of reducing the number of homeless people. This strategy ends in the year 21, and this group is very heterogeneous and it is difficult to design resources aimed at all. The annual count, as you say, is an estimate. The data from 16 gave figures, which were increased in 2018, to 435 people. And the gravity of the situation they face requires a sustained effort to minimize the synch organism. The follow-up report on this strategy was already sent to Parliament last year, so it is at your disposal. This report provides an overview of the activities carried out during the year 18 by all the entities involved in this strategy. And as you know, this initiative has an inter-agency character and is guiding and voluntary. For us, it is important to act and pay attention to women in residential exclusion, who, being a lower percentage than men, suffer greater vulnerability. And the strategy has a specific axis that strengthens the perspective, because this collective is very heterogeneous and very complex. As the report indicates, and only in its first year of operation, the vast majority of the plan's axes had already had satisfactory development, with a score above 1.8 on the 0-3 scale. Here I have, more or less, a graph in which we can see that the development of the housing approach has reached a score of 2.7 in terms of development; the improvement of resources and programmes, a 2.1; the guarantee of access to rights through administrative regulation, 2 out of 3. But that doesn't mean everything's done right. We have many challenges ahead, and I think we need to continue working. I also assure you that the Basque institutions, in the hands of the third social sector, have been able to respond effectively to the worsening of the syndrome caused by this pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u117	It's from the Jesar. With the mascarilla? Or don't you?... Okay, thanks for the explanation. Well, however, allow me, Mrs Artolazabal, to continue to show our concern about some issues. At the time we already conveyed to him the fears we had, because the strategy was presented, but we do not see the issue of the voluntariness of participation in it and the lack of concrete targets and indicators and budgets, above all, that this translates practically and inaction. We have had many difficulties in finding concrete data, through the official pages, on how the strategy is going, we have not found concrete plans, nor concrete studies that have recently been published. The only progress we have seen has been more the result of containment than the implementation of the strategy. And, well, when we act urgently because sometimes the shift to another model is not all that effective it should be. Well, examples of what we've seen are what's not done in terms of gender mainstreaming, which you mentioned. That, for it is not something that has been seen, moreover, now, being you also advisor of Equality, I think it is a focus that we have to put clearly. We know that women face greater danger in the streets, that they are more likely to suffer sexual assault, that women, in addition, suffer covert sinogarism and that, well, that by sometimes relying on trust networks and others, they extend their coexistence with people in their environment to avoid extreme situations of residential exclusion. We remain concerned, because we see little effort to incorporate new approaches into institutional action to eradicate the problem of sinogarism and not just to conform to its management. And, finally, well, we are concerned that they have also missed the opportunity to include projects that can be financed through European funds for the topic of synogarism, when in Europe there is a very powerful current called Housing-led Housing first Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u119	Mrs González, this strategy has been managed and implemented with the participation of many actors, not only the institutions, but also many social actors. And I do believe that, while there is a very important challenge, we are also taking steps to avoid or reduce this situation. In the area of equality, I share what you say, women are even more vulnerable victims in these situations of living on the street or of sinogarism, and that is why a specific axis for this group of women was put into this strategy. As for the European programmes, to say that the framework, or all the initiatives that can be presented at European level, is not closed, we have a deadline until March 2021, and we are working on many series of projects, as we have to do. I do believe, Mrs González, that during this pandemic situation there have been very complicated situations, which we have been able to deal with with with different projects. That we are not only focused on that or we have that vision of making a situation so that people living on the street don't live on the street, but we also have an itinerary so that these people can achieve a better standard of well-being. For that, we have put in place programs like Lehen Urratsak's, like Aterpeak's, where those people at one point had a place to stay, and now we're also trying to help them on that walk forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Intertermination, research, Casanova Alonso EH Collectors to the Chief of Tourisms, Commerce, and Commsimosors, about the big situation in which the sector of commerce, tourism, and the hostage is suffering." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u121	Bai, it's like the guztio berriro, age, beriziki, salburuari. Gaur da gure lehenengo buruz burukoa, this is the first time we have the opportunity to discuss face to face in this atril. And as you have made a somewhat cinematographic appearance at the last moment, as the seventh of cavalry, when I already thought I would have to make a monologue because I did not see you in the Chamber, because I will also greet you with a cinematographic phrase, saying that I hope this is the beginning of a great friendship. This interference deserves forgiveness, not forgiveness, but explanation, because it is unusual to ask a chief physician about general policies that he wants to carry in his department without giving him the opportunity to introduce his program to that chief physician. We do this in an exception, and we believe that the situation is justified. For two reasons. On the one hand, because for reasons we do not understand, the manifestations of the government have been delayed, and since elections have been made for many months, so that since the government was completed, and so on, we thought it too great a matter to wait till November; but, on the other hand, because we believe that the gravity of the sector compels us to discuss things and to decide them as quickly as possible. When we made an interpenetration, we'd ask you what plans your department were like when we made a justification and asked you what regiments of trade and hostship were, and inside the host where the district of rickism was involved, in front of the serious situation in which he was suffering. And we did that last week. What was serious last week, unfortunately, has become very serious this week. And unfortunately, this interference has taken on a negative or unhappy day. I will show you a press headline: "Bars and shops close in the face of the inaction of the Basque Government". It is a headline that refers to the past, specifically on 13 March 2020, dates that I believe have been recorded in the collective memory, because it was a kind of beginning of all this that does not end, worth redundancy. It is therefore a headline referring to the past, March 2020. But it's a headline that I think could be conjugated in other verbal times. It can also be conjugated in the present: bars and shops close, are closing, in the face of the inaction of the Basque Government. And I am very afraid, and this is the reason for today's inquiry, which can also be combined in the future: bars and shops will close, they will continue to close, they will close in the future, in the face of the inaction of the Basque Government. And that's what we want to avoid. We want to try to prevent that inaction, which has so far been manifest, from being prolonged in the future. Let it be, once and for all, a turning point. And that the Basque Government assumes, assumes the reality of the enormous, difficult to exaggerate, gravity of the situation that the trade, hospitality and tourism sector is going through in our country. These sectors were the first to close, as mentioned, even before they were forced to close, they were the first to close, particularly the hotel industry. And they're going to be the last, they're going to be the last to regain normalcy. Such is the case, that they have not yet recovered it or glimpsed the moment when they can recover it. I suppose your government will recognize this report by the Orcist Institute. In this report, our economic sector and the impact of COVID-19 in every sector. Even so, sectors are classed according to the dimensions of this impact, and even in front of this new situation, according to the degree of probability. It's not surprise, it's not surprise, it's not surprise, it's the most injured sector, and even the most vulnerable, it's the first, the host, the second, the trade. Between these two sectors, 20% of the entire job in this community. There's a lot of people working in these sectors that are vulnerable and in delicate circumstances. And so, as I was saying before, it's time to take consciousness by dimension and anxiety, and by the necessity of the government's interference. We say that the Government has not responded and the Government has not been able to do so. And it is not our intention to look back with anger at the moment, but I think we need to know where we come from, what kind of policies have been implemented, what has been done and what has not been done, to articulate, to be able to articulate between all and all a change of direction in public policies. On the part of the central government, there have been two measures that have covered the sector or sectors we are talking about, mainly composed of self-employed workers and others who have become ERTE. In this regard, there has been a coverage that, following the general tone of the central Government's reaction to the crisis, has been well-intentioned, has gone in the right direction, although it has then remained short and has not been well developed. But let us note here that, for our part, both the ERTE system which has been articulated to respond to the crisis, and that of the cessation of activity of the self-employed, have made it possible to generate a minimum safety net. But, of course, we are not talking here today about the intervention of the central government, but about the government to which you belong, even if you were not a part of it at the time this situation arose. On the part of the Basque Government, when we talk about a clamorous absence in the face of a really tragic situation, I think we have to recapitulate, as I said before, what has been done and what has not been done. And there have been, I would say, basically three measures over these months: on the one hand, certain moratoriums, delays and also credits that have been provided to the self-employed sector, with a management that I think leaves much to be desired, and drowning in the bureaucracy of these sectors; there have been bonds, which have taken incomprehensible months to come into operation, and which will come into operation. 'They haven't entered yet' in the next few weeks. We think these bonos are late. They're late. And besides, in a bad time of year. Because Bono's purpose must be to encourage new shopping options, and at the same time we plunge into a natural dynamic, a potent buyer, downing, Black Friday. Is that zer are autonomous laguntzen inguruan? It's just that I don't want to recreate myself in the mistakes, in the management, in the collapses of the web pages, in the race, etc. We have recently learned that aid that was activated at 0:00 hours on April 16 was exhausted 11 hours and 15 minutes later. This means that there has indeed been a career, other aids have been drawn, but what has not been there is a logic of giving rights and covering to all those who need it. And that has meant that, in practice, your government has left out the vast majority of the damaged collective. Because it has not generated universal aid that would cover all those who were creditors of the circumstances or conditions required, it has, well, made this career in which the first 6,000 lucky ones have been rewarded. Because we also have, in response to a question from our group, the data: 16,000 applications processed, of which 6,000 have been answered affirmatively; that is, 40% of the people who applied for the aid, who also came on time for the aid application and who did not give up because of the bureaucratic obstacles to the difficulties of the application itself, because only 40% of those people have received the aid. Therefore, it is not strange that a group of autonomous people quotes or paraphrases that of the Gospel of St Matthew: "Many are harmed, but few are chosen." This is the general feeling between the collective of self-employed, between the trade, between the hospitality: many the injured, and few the chosen. A día de hoy to-day, I think there are four kinds of help: For autonomous autonomists, two kinds of help, forced, and forced for economic conditions, the central Government has to be interrupted. Those who are Forced have the level of cooperation in the previous crisis, as in the previous pause. Cessation or income reduction aid requires 75% of income to be lost, which means that the conditions are virtually impossible, because any sector long before it reaches 75% of losses is not asking for cessation aid, but really understands that its business has no future. I've stopped a lot of points for the next session, but it's our question: What will happen to us here, as has happened in Catalonia, if the host has to stop? How long will the vast traffic sectors have to take advantage of this state of eloquence in this state of uncertainty, in this state of uncertainty, in this state of unprotected state from fun?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u122	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u123	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. Parliamentarians and parliamentarians, eguerdi on guztioi. If you'll allow me, Mr. Casanova, I'll start by correcting you, I think the correct quote is not "a great friendship," but "a beautiful friendship." I settle, I'm going to be more modest, with it being a loyal and constructive relationship. Well, as I told you in the previous full checkpoint, and I repeat how many times it takes, for me, as a counselor and as a socialist, my priority is people; their health, their jobs and their economic situation. And they're going to be directed by all our performances. We have a structured, multidisciplinary and coordinated plan with the other institutions involved, resulting from the dialogue and collaboration of this department with the affected sectors. We are starting from a really difficult situation, and we must not put on hot cloths. And we're very clear, and I've been since I got here. Of the 192,000 workers who have been affected by ERTE in our Autonomous Community, 44.7, or more than 85,000, corresponded to the sectors for which you are asking me today. 21.9 of the affiliates of the social security trade sector have been in ERTE. In tourism, 41.8 of the staff has gone through an ERTE situation, i.e. more than 56,000 people. And especially affected was the hospitality sector, with 65% of staff in ERTE, more than 37,000 people. A really critical situation affecting the employment and economics of a large number of people. The drop in sales in the hospitality industry stands at 64.3 in the second quarter of this year. The data confirm this diagnosis, therefore, is a tough situation, and although the number of ERTEs has decreased, we are fully aware that the situation will continue to be difficult. A situation that requires the involvement of the different administrations, the social partners and also the cooperation of all political forces. For my part, they are going to have a hand out for this cooperation. And an example of that necessary cooperation we find to the extent that it is fundamental, you have mentioned, to endure at this stage and to be able to go back as quickly as possible when it sends the pandemic. It's the extension of the ERTEs. And until the end of January it was possible thanks to the social concertation between the Government of Spain and the social partners, trade unions and business representatives. But, moreover, as vice-lehendakari Idoia Mendia has already announced, the supplement of the lowest incomes will be maintained equally. And I would like to point out that almost half of the beneficiaries of this supplement belong to the people affected by the sectors that challenge me: tourism, commerce and hospitality. Our strategy is basically based on two phases: a first phase of resistance, the primary objective of which is to help businesses and self-employed people to resist, placing the emphasis on maintaining jobs; and a second phase of reactivation, boosting and driving their activity. Steps that start from a consultation and analysis with the sector, which we will continue to carry out on a continuous basis. As you said in my entry, I inform you, because I have been meeting with the hospitality sector all morning, with which I have already met, but today we have had a meeting with the three presidents and the three secretaries-general of the hospitality associations, and we have been meeting all morning. As a result of all the contacts in which representatives of the tourism and trade sector participated, the extraordinary aid programme COVID-19, with EUR 15 million, emerged. It may be said that it is much or that it is little, but it is the reality, and you are aware of the budget that this department handles. With this, I believe that an amount of EUR 15 million is not negligible. This program complements the department's usual support, which has already been redirected to the needs of the COVID crisis, and with this program we will help 5,400 tourism and hospitality companies and commercial establishments, 2,800 shops and 2,600 tourism and hospitality companies. You seem few; it seems to me to be an important figure. We must bear in mind that the tourism and trade sector in Euskadi consists of a majority of micro-enterprises and self-employed persons, whose activity accounts for approximately 17% of our GDP, and which employs 230,000 people. These companies are earmarked for this 15 million, but in the case of the self-employed, the remaining 15 million Lanbide, of which 60% is also allocated to our department, the trade, tourism and hospitality sector. And you despise, Your Honor, the launch of the Euskadi Tourism Bonds Bono and Euskadi Bono Denda, saying they are late. Well, we believe that it is an effective tool for rehabilitating the most punished sectors of the crisis and helping to activate the consumption of families, which has also been limited. This is a pioneering initiative in two ways, by institutional consensus, i.e. the seven institutions and EUDEL united in a common strategy. And pioneer, because such bonds had not previously been issued in the tourism industry. It's 9 million euros, 5.7 million contributed by the department. And I say that we trust that they will be of great help, but as a strong advocate of the evaluation of public policies, once it is finished, we will analyse it and study it together with the sector, as well as all the measures that we are taking. We are therefore talking about income for tourism, hospitality and trade, and added spending capacity for people who are also suffering from this crisis. Let us not forget that there are many families whose members are also in ERTE. And, well, as I have already mentioned, I do not think it is to disregard this injection of EUR 9 million in these sectors, and also taking into account the regional and local area which will be particularly favoured by the initiative. And to say that they are late, well, I must say that it was the sector itself that asked us to use these bonds at this time, not at the summer time. They predicted a better, stronger summer, and we were asked to do so at this time, before Christmas. Well, then, we'll see if we're wrong or right. But tell him he's been listening and taking care of the sector's initiative. Therefore, in the face of a difficult situation, such as that of tourism, hospitality and trade in Euskadi, we are acting with the clear objective of better preparing for the future, in order to successfully meet the challenges that we had pending and those that will arise after the pandemic has been overcome. For this we have a government program 2020-2024 for this XII legislature, Euskadi in progress We aim to adopt a Basque sustainable tourism strategy 2020-2030 and we will have a comprehensive tourism, hospitality and trade plan that addresses all aspects, from a tourism model of excellence to management systems and the sector's own competitiveness. We will also approve a business and hospitality plan 2024. I am convinced that trade and hospitality are key elements for social cohesion. The small proximity trade and local hospitality are going to be our benchmark. That is why we will help them face the challenges of the future, such as improving competitiveness, adapting to digital transformation and training of professionals, which will be our priorities. All this is supported by the protection of consumers and their information and training, the promotion of responsible consumption and the awareness of local consumption. How and where we consume will determine the future we want to build, and in this we will focus our awareness-raising task. These are the measures that are within the resistance plan, which I have listed, you are aware, you have explained some of them. We share part of the diagnosis and we will continue to work. And I hope that on the 28th, in just 12 days, we can have a constructive appearance, in which among all of us we bring more solutions and more programmatic ideas for this uncertain and difficult future that faces us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u124	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u125	Good morning again. Do not take my allusion to your late arrival, I am fully aware that when there is not a counselor here it is because he is working elsewhere and that the agendas are what they are. Just understand my anguish when you see that my counselor didn't show up. He's given me several keys. And I'm absolutely much more worried after listening to him than before. I'm sorry... Because it didn't come with prejudices, in the sense of thinking in advance. It was open to the possibility that I would be surprised. And he's given me several very negative keys, as I understand it. I'm on 28 November, sorry, October, for the appearance. And what if the closing of the hotel is decreed tomorrow? What help will the government take tomorrow, if the hotel industry closes as it has closed in Catalonia? Are they going to hang from the brush, as they were left hanging from the brush in the previous closure, just pending aid? As I said before, I do not criticise its orientation, that of the cessation of autonomous activity, but that they are absolutely insufficient, which can be 600 euros, when the situation is not the same at the moment for the hospitality that it was in March. The situation is much worse, because they accumulate punishment, over these months, tremendously, physically, psychologically and economically. And, therefore, there has to be a response in a strategic plan 2020-30, which also, but if we want to have hospitality in 2030, what we have to have is to have planned measures to take tomorrow, not tomorrow, we had to have taken them yesterday. Because, despite the fact that it now seems that there is a rush that can lead to a closure, even if that is not the case, the hotel industry, with the current health restriction measures, does not itself have the capacity to survive in economic terms, starting from its own business. A business, whose possibilities are severely limited by health restrictions. Where is the response of the Basque Government to this reality? When the terraces begin not to be able to be used, when small bars cannot function, what is the alternative that your Government will give them? The 2030 Strategic Plan? Because these people are in a situation of absolute suffering. And I don't want to do what a partner calls "pornomiseria", but it's that people are suffering a lot, people are suffering a lot at the hotel, and they are suffering a tremendous life-threatening anguish in broad branches of trade. Others have a better situation. I repeat what I said in a media outlet. If the members of this Government, even if the members of this House were in a wage, labour and economic situation like the people in the world of commerce and hospitality, the measures would have been taken long ago. And it hurts me to say this, but it does. We would not have endured that situation. And, having the power we have to take action, we would have taken them. Beste klabe bear negatibo bat eman duzu zure agerraldian, esan duzunean 15 milioi jarri dituzuela eta, who could be said to be much or can be said to be little. Yes, yes, of course, you can say whatever you want. Baina nik esaten dut kategorikoki gutxi ez, her gutxi bear, her proportional gutxi bear, daukagun egoerarekin. He's a squestalamante poco y las praebas son que, precisente, milles y millions de peoples there quedado fuera de cualquier type de ayudas. And that's the problem, helping you to keep thinking. And the question is not to give help here, but to distribute superfluous ones. The question is, the people in the world of commerce and trade have rights. If he has a right to survive, he has a right to be protected by his institutions. We live in society, and society must be a means of solidarity. And we have to reassure people. And when people have a serious economic problem, for any reason, they need to know that society is there to help them with its institutions. And these are either the rights, or the universals, or the races, or the lotes, to which they belong. We can't allow people to be on that condition. And what I'm saying is that you're gonna keep doing what you've done so far. You've decided not to do it again. His Government had the political, legal and budgetary capacity to do more, to put more money on the table, to generate a system of benefits and rights for these people, and it had a moral obligation to do so immediately, because the problem was already happening and would be exacerbated in the future. We will therefore talk about strategies, sustainable tourism, quality in employment. We will talk about it, and it is important, and I do not want to underestimate it, but please that this government focuses on giving an immediate response, and I repeat, it has chosen not to do so by maintaining a budgetary orthodoxy – the Keynesian councillor spoke the other day, when then, at the time of truth, applies the strictest liberalism. They have the resources to do it. Please do it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u126	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Time is up. Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Well, first of all, I didn't take anything wrong with your comment. And to tell you that, contrary to you, which has been more negative in your second intervention, I will be more positive. I will reply by talking about three areas: one, diagnosis; measures; and the future. I mean, I'm gonna be more positive, because I think, and reading your inquiry, especially the first part, and you've listened to me, I think we share a lot of the diagnosis. The difficulty is real. I have been meeting with the sector since the first day I arrived, I am talking to them; I have just informed you that I have been meeting with the hoteliers for three hours. We're connoisseurs. And the difficulties you pose are being raised by me. With this, I think we have a starting point, of the difficulty that the situation has, that we can share. You mentioned the Orkestra report; I will make it easier for you on the day of the appearance – I say I refer to the appearance, because of the timing of this inquiry, there are many things that we cannot reach, but I will be very transparent, and all the reports that come to me I will send you to the committee, and we can share them. On that side, the starting point can be positive, if we make a good assessment of the diagnosis. What I do not share, however, is their assessment of the measures. Well, there we do have a difference. You do not appreciate it in the same way; I do appreciate very much the agreement of the ERTs, the agreement of the supplement, the 15 million that I have explained to you from the aid of Lanbide, that 60% go to self-employed people who are from our sector. Of course we're acting now. And the 15 million extraordinary measures, I insist again. You know perfectly well the budget, and what this government has been involved in the aid. What will they have to do next? Of course. And we'll have to analyze the situation at every moment. And that is what brings me to the third point: the future. It's just that what we have is uncertainty. And that's not what I'm saying, that's what the sector says. They, what affects them most is that they are not able to calculate their point of no return. If we had the ability to say, "Hey, this crisis is going to last 6 months, 9, 12...", or more, but let's tell them a fixed date, so, hey, entrepreneurs, workers, people can make a composition of place and get there. But it just doesn't exist. And that's not gonna change you or me. It is a global pandemic that we live with uncertainty. And the data evolves, changes the situation. Of course we are aware of what Catalonia has done; of what Navarra did the other day, of what Macron has done with his curfew. Fully aware, and in full contact with the sector. Now, you talk about measures, more money, more benefits. Well, put them together. Well, let's see what we're going to work on. And that's why I'm telling you that today we can't develop all of them, and neither have you. That's why I'm taking the next 28 to talk. And well, indeed, measures that have to be implemented now, within the phase of resistance, and I insist, are being taken, and we will continue to take them. And as the situation evolves, we'll have to take new ones. And we'll also have to evaluate the ones we're taking. I have told you: I am an advocate of public policy evaluation. You're already in. But I'm telling you. The bonus, we think it's going to be a good measure. And he's been sued by the sector, on the dates that the sector has sued, not as you say. Well, and when it's over, we'll have to evaluate it and see if it's been beneficial, it hasn't been beneficial, what we can improve on... And that's the continuous change. Now, do you want me to bring here, in a 10-minute inquiry, all the measures we're going to take? No, no, Well, let's do it, with that rigorous work. And so, well, for my part, thank you for the tone of the speech. And I think, well, we're going to have time to work, and I'm going to put you in 12 days, in that general appearance, so we can keep working. And, I also ask you, if you can also go down to more concrete proposals, for we will evaluate them, just as we evaluate all those that the sector is proposing to us, all those that we are proposing from the department. And that's our longing. And we're going to work in a coordinated way with the sector, which is having a bad time. And I... You'll follow me, I understand it's your job, since I've arrived, in all my public statements, in all my speeches, everything I've talked to them... You are also related to the sector; you will know what I am telling you and what I am transmitting to you. Well, the diagnosis is what it is. And the situation is very difficult. And we are going to work and we are going to redouble our efforts to reverse this situation, knowing the difficulty. To that end, I am counting on your group and all those in the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-16.u128	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-seven.
