ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, we shall call Mariazun Guerre Alonso the congressman. He responded to the call. Next, in honour of Mr. Gregor Ordoñez, we'll have a minute's silence. There's been a minute's silence. First point in theme list: "The understanding of the Committee of Incompatibility, of the mutual compatibility of the fellow Yahcov Ruiz Chico. Discipline and final resolution. Do any members of the board want to vote for the judgment? Do any of the legislatures want to vote for the judgment? That's all we're going to vote for. Except the members of the legislature related to the Constitution, the rest of us can vote. Take a good look at the card, huh? We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; the supporters of 71; the opposites, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u1	So the judgment remains accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The Bill of Confederation of the Confederation Committee of Unity, made on the compatibility condition of the Mayors of Central University Council. The controversy and final deliberation of the Constitution, and the design of the members of that council, may be so. Do any members of the board want to vote for the judgment? Do any of the teams want to vote for the judgment? That's all we're going to vote for. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters 73; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u2	Therefore judgment is approved. After we've approved our judgment, we'll proceed to appoint members of the Basque Country University Council. According to the article set by Article 234.6 of the Eusual Act, each member of the legislature has five-minute shifts. Do you think any of the teams would like to join? No. According to the article of rule '96.3.b', the choice will be made by cards. However, seeing other precedents, and considering that there is no alternative candidate, I propose to you this time with a unanimous consent. So, Andoni Pérez Ayala, Adolfo Apiñaniz Diaz, Joseón the Fountainsthobet, the Happy Household of Ortub trees, Fernando Mijangos Ugarte, the Arrese Oren, and Marcelinus Herndez Garduño, we call members of the Council of the Basque University. Third point in theme list: "The bill of law made together by the Parse team of Podemos, in order to regulate the game in the Autonomical Society of the Basque Country, to change the law of 4/1991 of November. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you're being divided, and we're just going to argue. As they're on the same side and the other side, they're on the side, so, apart from Podemos, someone else wants to participate? Well, Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u3	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Gambling usually accompanies us: the Christmas Lottery, the Primitiva, the football quiniela that was previously completed as a family,...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u4	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u5	...go to the track, bet the colored in the ball game, the neighbor who goes to bingo on Saturday afternoon... The game surrounds us and has surrounded us historically. But we have to ask ourselves why we are more concerned now. Maybe it's because nowadays playing is easier, it can be more anonymous and the betting fan is infinite. It can be done from home, and it is often a plan in the gangs of friends. That is why we are bringing to this House today a proposal that responds to a latent and widespread concern about Basque citizenship. From Elkarrekin We have been denouncing for a long time in this House that in recent years the sports betting and gambling business has spread exponentially across our streets and neighborhoods and through the hospitality establishments as well as the internet. And it affects in a special way the underage population and the young people and young people of Euskadi. A social phenomenon, that of gambling and sports betting, that concerns us all and that concerns, and very much, not only associations of those affected by ludopathy, social groups and youth organizations, but also citizens in general. As I say, we are increasingly faced with more cases of neighbors and neighbors in whose surroundings there are people with gambling problems. And there is also a power of greater attraction among the most vulnerable groups, to whom the message is sent that easy money can be made. Today, there are 256 gambling rooms, betting houses and bingoes, 11,351 slot machines and approximately 2,100 betting machines in Euskadi, most of which are located in bars and restaurants. It's obviously an excessive number. To the high level of face-to-face gambling we must add the increase in gambling and sports betting on the internet, a subject on which there is an alarming lack of information. The biggest change that has occurred in recent years within the game is the result of the break-in of the online option, which enables the game and also bets through any device 24 hours a day. That anonymity, that way of playing from home, the link with sport, which often serves as a hook, and its accessibility through mobile means that there are many young people who play online. According to the data of the Basque Observatory of the Game, the average volume of the online sports bet was 15 euros in 2018, while in hospitality and salons it was 6,5 and 8 euros, respectively, which shows that, to the greater degree of anonymity, the average expenditure increases and is greater. And, therefore, increases the risk that it will eventually become an addiction, because everything is mounted so that it will be. Euskadi's own VII Addiction Plan, 2017-2020, recognized the risks of online gambling, especially for the younger population, noting that 26% of the Basque population, a total of 436,906 people, is already an active player, having spent money at least once a week during the past year on some kind of gambling. Young people and social strata with fewer resources are being affected by the serious public health problem of spreading gambling addiction. The offer of gambling is increasingly presented in the vicinity of educational and university institutions, with the consequent exposure of students to gambling and betting and, of course, to the normalization of an activity that leads to serious addiction problems. To check this situation, just approach some of the gambling halls or betting houses in our neighborhoods. There we will meet several kids, with their sports bags on the shoulder, with the front covered many times with acne, concentrated in front of the betting machines, while they take a look on the screen at teams with unknown names and various competitions and modalities that, many times, do not know and with which they have no link. This scene is repeated daily, and with very light nuances, in much of the business related to the game that opens the blind in Euskadi. Most of them are strategically located within the reach of the youngest. There are more than 100 educational centers and schools that have a playroom or betting houses very close to their surroundings. It should also be noted that these playrooms show an attractive and modern aesthetic, turned into the online universe. And there are some young people who are not yet aware of the consequences of this game dynamics. And the raw reality is that in these premises, deep down, you can only bet on losing and, in some cases, ruining your life. According to the Department of Health of the Basque Government, this reality emerges from the observation that there are already 43,000 people in Euskadi who have a pathological gambling disorder, and that up to 5% of the young population faces this addiction. The profile of people who go to these associations to ask for help with gambling problems is between 26 and 35 years old, in the case of men, and between 36 and 45 years old, in the case of women. The gambling addiction disorder, recognized by the World Health Organization, has serious consequences for the people who suffer from it, for their social and family environment and, in general, for society as a whole. And to this we must add that, when one stops to observe the location of these establishments in the municipalities of Euskadi, where they have proliferated is in the most popular neighborhoods and with a lower purchasing power. There, for entrepreneurs in the sector, is the sure bet. And, with nuances, this pattern is repeated in the transit zones, and in the so-called less crowded neighborhoods most of these premises are concentrated. And in the meantime, in neighborhoods with greater purchasing power, none of these establishments open the blind. And this question has to make us reflect. However, it is now or has been impossible to quantify the reality of gambling addiction in Euskadi. To this end, it has been necessary to carry out detailed studies, as demanded by the figures who are experts in addictions and associations for the treatment and rehabilitation of gamblers. And that is the task that must be led by the Game Observatory in Euskadi. It is time to face the negative consequences of the game with concrete and effective measures that address this phenomenon in a cross-cutting way. In the budget agreement, we have succeeded in getting the Basque Government to commit itself, and we are already seeing a change in attitude towards this problem with regard to the reduction in the number of licences, although there is much, much work to be done to put an end to this scourge which seriously affects the younger people in the Basque Country and many other sectors of the population. In that regard, we recognize that the recent announcement of the suspension of licences to new premises is a good step, but has no effect, as all licences were already granted. It is therefore an insufficient measure. And it's time to move from words to facts. It is clear that after several discussions there is a shared concern on the part of all groups, and further work needs to be done. And, for Elkarrekin We can, for us, this goes by reaching a broad agreement to end this phenomenon that grows exponentially. By sharing the vast majority of the diagnosis, collecting the citizen's concern and listening to the claims and claims of many platforms of people affected by ludopathy, as well as of neighborhood associations and youth groups that are manifesting day by day in our streets and neighborhoods, it is up to us to look at the reality existing around the game and sports betting in Euskadi. That is why we are presenting this bill here, because for us, for Elkarrekin Podemos, a reform of the previous law regulating gambling in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is necessary, since the rule seems to us to have become obsolete and in some matters it is necessary to update it. Although Decree 120/2016 of 27 July approving the general regulation of gambling in the Basque Autonomous Community addressed some necessary issues, we believe that we also need to take a step further and address the problem of gambling addiction, as well as possible protective measures, with a higher level of depth, acting directly from the highest level of regulatory capacity, i.e. from the very law regulating gambling. That is why we are presenting today this initiative which aims to put an end to this social scourge. The new wording of the law we propose includes various aspects which, as a whole, can be a first step in addressing the consequences that gambling and sports betting have on the public health of Euskadi. Firstly, it proposes a limitation on gambling establishments, which, while not affecting those currently in operation with respect to their current authorisations, may imply the current limitation to growth and the decline of those in the medium and long term, which must be one of our objectives. On the other hand, a more limited time frame is established, which restricts the early morning and late evening hours. Access control is also extended to all gambling establishments and machines located in the hotel establishments, because, despite their restricted access, hundreds of minors and students from schools and institutes spend every morning in front of playrooms and sports betting houses, and many enter them later, at some point in the day. In addition, for our parliamentary group, one of the fundamental axes to tackle the incipient youth ludopathy is to recalculate the minimum distances between gambling establishments and to add a new limitation on the proximity and place of access of educational centres, university centres and treatment and rehabilitation centres for players. There are cases of schools where, within a radius of just 200 metres, three of the five sports betting houses currently operating in Euskadi are concentrated. And we can't allow this. Unlike what already happens in other communities such as Castile and León, Asturias or Catalonia, today there is no specific rule in Euskadi that prevents opening a playroom or a sports betting venue near a school or institute. To combat the negative consequences of the game, the advertising regime of the game must also be regulated, just as it has previously been done with alcohol and tobacco. We are aware at this point that there are decisive measures to be taken that depend on other bodies. The new Ministry of Consumer Affairs is already working on a real decree that will limit advertising on gambling and online betting on both radios and televisions in the hourly band of the morning, i.e. between one and five. There is a framework where there is no or no control, and regulation is needed, because there is a social problem with this issue, especially with particularly vulnerable groups. It should be remembered that these advertisements often have as spokespersons to familiar faces, mainly sportsmen, who attract younger people, who do not measure the risk that, little by little and bet on, they can enter a wheel from which to leave is much more complicated; and that these ads are often issued or shown alongside ads that incite to ask and obtain almost instantly bank credits that allow us to continue playing. It's all easy. The trap works perfectly, and the result is bad. But there are measures that we can push forward in Euskadi. From Elkarrekin Podemos, we advocate restricting advertising in the media in a similar way, as well as billboarding and advertising related to gambling and sports betting in public spaces and media. In addition, in our proposal we want to establish a 10% surcharge on gambling tax, which would be intended to create a fund for the prevention and treatment of gambling addiction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u6	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u7	In addition to this bill, the need for a thorough reform of the Game Act, we must also continue to work in coordination with other institutions, such as municipalities or parliaments, in order to continue to promote measures and initiatives at all administrative levels that protect citizens from gambling and gambling business. Gambling is an economic activity that does not create wealth; it is just passing money from one hand to another. It is organized to ensure the maximum benefit for the exploiter and the almost safe loss for the player. It is a very profitable business that reports millions of euros to companies dedicated to sports betting in Euskadi. For all this, and given the evidence that the citizens and the younger people of Euskadi are becoming the easiest target for gambling companies and the most affected by the serious public health problem posed by the spread of ludopathy, from Elkarrekin We can present today this initiative that addresses and addresses in an updated way the problem of gambling and sports betting, a problem that from some sectors is already described as the heroine of the 21st century. We defend the rights of the most vulnerable people to fall into the negative consequences of the game, through the prevention and implementation of measures of control and sensitivity of society, in the face of the economic interests of some companies in the sector for profit and profit regardless of the harmful consequences of irresponsible use. In short, given what from some sectors is called a pandemic of gambling addictions, various protests and mobilizations are taking place in our neighborhoods and municipalities so that this phenomenon is addressed from the institutions. It is up to us to pick up the glove, be responsible, address the social problem of gambling addictions and do so in a deep and cross-cutting way. We need a great deal of agreement on a matter like this. The gaming companies are making a very strong lobby to avoid restrictions. However, economic benefit cannot be placed before the right to health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Does anyone want to participate in the opposite round? On the other side? No. So, we're going to the vote. Now that we have finished our discussion, what we shall vote about is whether the legal proposition be considered or not. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 0; abstainments, 37.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u9	So it's agreed to consider the law's proposal. After that, we're going to the vote shift. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Members of the Government, parliamentarians. The People's Group has voted in favour of taking into consideration this proposed law of the Elkarrekin group We may want to amend the Game Act of 91. There are a number of reasons why we should adopt this position, which I see is unanimous in the House, despite the Government's view of the contrary when dealing with this matter. The truth is that there is a debate on the street, there is a concern, in various respects, mainly because it is necessary for parliamentarians to meet the demand made by citizens for the protection of certain groups in access to uncontrolled gambling, especially that of minors, who, although legally and legally provided, the reality is that minors have access to the game in an uncontrolled way and, in particular, to online gambling. A law as old as the one we want to reform in the year 91 does not have those predictions, because they were modalities of play that then did not exist, and therefore we understand that it is important, that it is essential to bring that debate that already exists, that concern that exists between the citizenry, in order to give protection fundamentally to the collective of minors, but also to other more unprotected collectives, that access to the game in an uncontrolled way, which poses a significant danger to this society. There are other issues that are not clearly regulated within the law, that are not perfectly framed, and that allow governments, in some way and periodically, to publish regulations that regulate certain situations, such as advertising. We demand from the People's Group – and we will do so if this legislature gives us time to present the appropriate amendments to the draft submitted by Elkarrekin Podemos – to regulate the whole matter of advertising, of excessive advertising of betting houses, demanding strict compliance with the law and demanding new measures containing that publicity that makes these unfavorable collectives that I referred to at the beginning of my intervention can have this excessive addiction to the game. For those reasons, simply, and because we understand that it is necessary to update the law, we have given the positive vote to the Elkarrekin Podemos bill. And we have the hand to work together on the amendments, on the work to make a more modern, more up-to-date and easier to implement law in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Next up, Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u12	President, ladies and gentlemen. The Basque Country already has a game law, a law that regulates it; it has since 1991. He's got regulations, he's got an observatory, he's got revisions... It responds to the new situations that with regard to the game and its social impact are occurring; it has done so periodically. It is clear that there is concern, and that there is follow-up and action on all the problems that are being generated, which have been discussed here today and which have been discussed on previous occasions. It is true that the increase of spaces and forms of play, the addiction to gambling, its affection for the most vulnerable people, the problems it generates to public health, and the expansion of advertising in general and, specifically, in the public media have to be a constant concern. And, indeed, they are. If you stop in the law, you will see that the law contemplates, on the one hand, the structural principles of regulation, and also the dimensioning elements of the sector, so that the offer of play is on socially tolerable margins, making every three years a review and planning. The measures proposed in the bill are already covered by the General Rules of the Game, they are due to changing planning aspects, and it is better that they are open to agile changes in their procedure than to more rigid and long changes over time. It would be reasonable, therefore, to dwell a little on the Government's view on the consideration of the bill that has been voted on and on which the following should be highlighted. The Government's consideration reads: "It would be more practical and advantageous to fulfil the purpose behind the initiative of the proposing parliamentary group, and more consistent with previous parliamentary positions, to attend to the process of revision of the planning based on the work of the Basque Observatory of the Game, which would allow for a more accurate decision-making and according to European jurisprudence parameters. From the examination of the proposed measures, he warned that some were already in force or might not have the intended impact. The limitation of the number of establishments proposed does not appear to have a foreseeable impact, as it does not alter the number of casinos or, in fact, alter the number of bingoes, since the number of places envisaged is higher than the current number. Nor would it affect the bookshops and betting venues, since it would not apply to existing ones, and the current planning no longer leaves room for further expansion. The regulation of the advertising of the game, although it contains some particular new measure, is, in some respects, less stringent than that contained in the current regulation. And, in proposals concerning timetables or distances between establishments or limitations on the installation of machines in hotels, they should be studied in order to avoid opposite side effects to which they are intended: greater capillaryness in other establishments, displacement of the game to peripheral areas or medium populations, etc. All the above measures can be addressed within the planning review process, without the need to wait for the change of the law with the support of the conclusions and proposals of the studies of the Basque Observatory of the Game". Good. Having said that, it is clear – as we have stated in the vote – that we have not opposed the processing; we have abstained, because the reasonings not to consider this bill as something fundamental are solid, although it is true that the matter before us is important. We do not want to close any doors to be deepened on what is proposed. And, well, where appropriate, we will see which way to go: whether the contents and procedures that arise from this mechanism or from others that are already established in the current legislation. That is why, and following – as I said, in a way – the government's recommendations, the government's approach has not been clearly unfavourable. Rather, the Government's approach has been to recommend and guide other ways of working on these aspects of the proposed law. And, by a precautionary principle, we too have chosen to make it easier to deal with it. And in its process, we will see which is the most correct way to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u13	Thank you, Mr Price. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u14	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. As you have carefully verified, we have voted for a change in favor of the law which regulates the Euskal games which Podemos calls in the discussion. First, we must say that all the groups of this Chamber seem to share the same uneasiness when we speak of the excess of the use of unsubstantial attentions. But when you take the attitude of taking strict measures to blow up this situation, the unanimousity loses itself in the way. For reality shows us that it is easier to stake. We all have unsubstantial attentions, and they deliberately urge us to do it when we see sports, or when we watch television. And still more serious, the young people are becoming more and more easy to get into play. Our boys and girls enjoy sports betting; they do it face-to-face, they do it online, in terminals or in playrooms. They play, they bet, sometimes they win, but, most of the time, they lose. Almost all of them do so without being aware of the risk involved. They do not know that the line that divides the hobby to the gambling bets, to that game for fun, which is well seen socially, that line that divides that and the pathological game is too thin. XXI. THE DIVERSITY OF SUBSTANCES. they have become the disease of the century, and EH will not be tired of saying that we are in the presence of a real business of public health. And if we don't take this problem seriously, we can hardly help transform this situation. And again, we want to focus on minors. It seems to us that these boys are too easy to adopt the attitudes that threaten to render all the chances of gambling intelligible. At the present day, betting is easy, very easy, accessible, and worst of all is that it is not stigmatized. On the contrary, it is socially well seen, because it feels like another entertainment, like idleness. But be careful, because what seems like a normal and harmless behavior, that is, the game drifts in many cases into a pathological game. And the game is not a impulse control disorder "We have said it many times," but an addiction. In the game there is dependence, in the game there is tolerance, and in the game there is withdrawal syndrome. In the case of sports bets, these are too accessible because, despite the fact that there are exclusive premises for the installation of these terminals, the largest number of bets are made in hotel rooms, in bars. It is accessible because in these establishments there is no control to prevent minors from using them at their discretion. Well, if there's no control, what we have to do is push it. But it seems that neither the Government, in this case, nor the groups that support it want to push any control; they have shown it on other occasions and have demonstrated it again today, staying in the middle of the road. We have a good opportunity to regulate all these issues by law, because we have an obsolete regulatory game regulation, of the year 91, of the last century, year in which there were no such betting of sports terminals. How many smartphones As I was saying, we have a chance to rule all this legally, but it seems that the government only wants to receive it in sociological studios and plans. All this is very well, especially because we've asked for oppositions, but some want to close the door to the conversation, the possibility of the analysis of this situation and the contribution of all the parliamentary groups, of a subject which at first seems to agree. And if we have seen a few abstainments today, it has been because some know that the course of this legal proposition will be left to nothing. The Government, according to its view – as we interpret it – prefers to devote itself to carrying out studies and plans that lack any legal backing, and that we are very much afraid that they will remain in a taco of sheets written quickly and running to fulfill the file, and, above all, because the opposition has already asked it to do so. Jaun-Andreok, either we take this seriously, or we fear that we will regret the steps we have not taken in this eleventh parliamentary term. And it will not be, as I said, for lack of momentum from opposition groups. I hope that those responsible and policy makers who will have to deal with this problem in the future will be much more aware of what we have seen in some of the people who hold positions of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Eubertarians. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good days to all. The eubertarian party has been expelled from the vote of Podemos' legal proposition, because it will not interfere with it, but at the same time we are critical of it. In fact, we believe that Eukko's working hard on this subject, and it's not necessary, not even appropriate, right now. Initially, for our part, there would be no inconvenience in amending the Game Law, which, as mentioned, dates back to 1991, from the last century, although in its regulatory development of the year 2016, the current regulation was modernized in a sense more or less coincident with what was proposed in this bill. It is precisely in that regulation of 2016, called the General Regulation of the Game, and in the planning that contains the concrete limitations mentioned in the proposed law: maximum number of companies, maximum number of establishments and distance between them, number of gaming machines and their location, restrictions on advertising and promotion of the game, timetables, etc. However, we believe that the basis for such a legal change cannot be based on importing justifications which, if necessary, could be valid for other existing realities but which are quite different from ours. While in some places where the total liberalisation of the sector prevailed, betting facilities have multiplied by six, even by more than six, in the last five years, the offer of gambling and the number of establishments has remained stable due to planning that serves the public interest and the protection of public health. It does not seem reasonable therefore to attempt to transfer mimetically problematic existing in other realities to our own, nor to want to implement imported solutions without having a real and serious knowledge of our reality and our regulations. We therefore believe that any changes to existing legislation should be based on rigorous technical studies on the sector and on potentially vulnerable people, while at the same time being legally safe. With regard to the proposals contained in the proposal, and without wishing to enter into its analysis, which does not correspond at this time, it seems that they are intended to become law, a stable legal norm with a vocation of permanence, some short-term measures that would be more properly the object of planning and that can change over time. In fact, many of the proposed measures are already covered by the current General Rules of the Game or could be implemented, without the need to amend the law, with the revision of the three-year planning of the game to be carried out legally in 2020, but with foundation and motivation in technical studies, as required by European and State jurisprudence. I would point out only, with regard to the autonomous charge on the gambling rate, that there is now a charge of 12%, i.e. higher than the one proposed; but we also believe that creating a finalist charge would run counter to the budgetary principle of unit of cash. Almost all the measures planned, except the torrent, may be employed within the proposal of a renewal of planning, without waiting to change the law, and the result and support of the observations made by the Basque Office of the Game. And, on the other hand, we believe that, when analysing the proposal, we must be consistent and respect previous parliamentary positions. In this regard, we must take into account the non-legislative proposal adopted by this House on 15 November 2018 and the most recent of 14 February 2019, adopted unanimously, where the Basque Government was also responsible for studies and plans. The Basque Government, fulfilling its parliamentary mandate, launched the Basque Observatory of the Game in February last year, which recently, in December, has completed its studies on the socio-economic sector of the game in Euskadi and the perception of citizenship, in addition to the action plan required by this Parliament. The results of such studies will give rise in the coming months to the revision of the planning and the amendment, where appropriate, of the General Rules of the Game, giving effect both to the aforementioned non-law proposals and to the provisions of the law itself and the regulations of 2016. In fact, the Governing Council of 14 January agreed to initiate the procedure for the revision of the game planning set out in our regulation, as well as the modification of the aspects of the said regulation which require updating or reform, and also agreed to the temporary suspension of the granting of new play authorizations or modification of playrooms during the revision of that planning. Therefore, as we said at the beginning, the Basque Government is doing its duties, and we believe that it would be more interesting to wait for the completion of the planning work for the next three years before promoting legal reform. And we would only have to urge the proposing group to do its own, its duties, where it has governmental responsibilities within its competence. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u17	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Forth point on the theme list: "Mode, introduced by Ubeka Ubera Aranzeta EH members of the Union, concerning the irregularity of the ESI management of the Arabs. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Ms. Ubera, it's yours to introduce and defend the initiative. Ubera Arannet I'm sorry Mrs. Murga isn't with us today. What we require in the motion of this day is very exact: To make a auditory, and to study and determine cares for the diversion of the public money. I suppose it's an affair that the Medical Department and Osar should do without us, but unfortunately it wasn't. Because if this is happening in the Integrate Sanitarian Organization of the Araba, what will happen in the other Holy Institutions? And if this happens in a kitchen, it's a privilege of the hospital. And some of you will ask me: What was the attitude of the health department and the health department? And I'll answer you with another question: You didn't see the attitude of the health department when we made an interpelration? It was the attitude of justification and of denial. Instead of saying, "I'm sorry. We didn't notice. We didn't know what was going on. We have no mechanism to continue and control public and contracts. But don't worry, we'll investigate, we'll set up mechanism, and then we'll start work." That's not capable of the health department. That's why we didn't wait until the performance was completed, because the head physician of the health department justified his interference. He continued with the usual practice of the health department: the denial and the defensive. And there you can see that in the Medical Department the faces have changed, but the politics have not changed. Politics have not changed, unfortunately. And perhaps Mrs. Murga's IS! Here you are, Murga; forgive me, Mrs. Murga's intention was not, but, in reply, it might not have been well advised. Maybe. But the arguments which Mrs. Murga used to do not inquire into what had happened, and the groups which maintain the government, have not a single word to receive it in repentance. I haven't seen any bad amendments like that in a long time. You don't even try to hide it anymore. The chief physician of the Medical Department had another chance: in the presence of a serious thing like this, to demand its occurrence with need of explanation, and to conduct the scene as quickly as possible. I'm sure the President of the Medical Committee and the rest of the teams would be ready for that, as they always were. This week, we had a medical committee, and it was cancelled. But no, the Medical Department didn't. And this stuff comes from November, huh? It's coming from November. It's been months. We're in February. We're in February. So, if you are really for transparency, if you are in favor of study of irregularities, if you are in favor of public money, control, and continuity, you should vote for our motion today. Unfortunately, it does not seem to be. Because what is required is extremely minimum, very least. We're asking for a auditorium, and our attentions to investigate and determine. Dot. That's all we ask. That's all we're asking for. And it's no good to say that it's in the prosecutor's office. It's no good. Here, every one has his own cares: we have our cares, the government has its responsibility, and the prosecutor has his own. And this government show us it is necessary that in the presence of the people, in front of the LAB or in the presence of the EH Union, it governs the public funds of all the citizens in the proper manner. That's what you need to prove. That's what you have to show. And that's what you have to justify. And, yes, there's been a detour. There's been a detour. And the consequence of the deviation can be derived from the data given by the direction of the æba organization's Integarian Administration. So if a union has studied the subject, if it has continued it, and has been able to extract these consequences, the overseers of the Sanitarian Institutions, are not capable of it? We're the representatives of LA, or we're the only ones who are smarter than anybody else, aren't we? Or what did they do? Have they done the neglect of their functions? Did they look the other way? And if they have been careless, or if they have looked the other way, must the Health Department, the Osacides keep these responsible for their care? And if he thinks of keeping it, then we'll ask the Medical Department and this government to avoid fulfilling their cares, because you're the last responsible, Mrs. Murga. So put the batteries on, put the batteries on, and start working. Mrs. Murga, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, I don't know if you know or remember, but the other day I said there was corruption. And do you know the proof that the public money has been unconsciously diverted? When this affair was made public, when he was transferred to the prosecution, the demand for supplies ceased to be applied to the public store. And as he was received in the contract, he began to work out the supply request company. There's nothing left to say. There's the proof. There's the proof. So it's something that's been done consciously. And for those of you who did not see the control meeting, or for those you forgot the subject, to refresh your memory, I will briefly explain what has happened. Integrated Sanitarian Organization has hired a company, three contractions have been made different for years to supply the kitchens of Bealch and Santiago. This property is, besides theirs, also for the supply of destruction. And in the contract it's clear what to provide for in Santiago's kitchen and what to provide in the kitchen in the red-haired kitchen. Loud and clear. But it's just that Santiago's kitchen supply request was taken from this contract, and that instead of doing it to the company, it's done to the public store. And therefore the expense of the public funds was double. Public money's been wasted. And no one noticed it or looked away. The directors of the Araba Organization Sanitarian Integrate have looked the other way. Something strange has happened: or, after that, a tip has been given to me about I don't know about it, or there's a clitent network that I don't know about François, or the management of this government is good management of the clitian net. Demonstrate. Find out, light up, get the hearings. In this management, three contractions have been made for the past few years, including different companies. And seeing that it was not required of the company, the plascits remained the same, with the same number; they have not been corrected in years. So, to begin with, it was a bad management. It was bad management. It's called no one to say, not to correct numbers in making new contracts. What was behind it? Explain it. On the other hand, this practice has shown that there is no need for an external company to provide for it, because the public store can supply it. And it makes them think that foreign companies are hired or that they can be used to make the progress of public revenue difficult or prevent corruption. So, all of us, we all cost a lot. It's very expensive for us, because some people use and handle public money according to their own interests. The question is, Mrs. Murga: Does the health department want them to end or keep their practice? Given your behavior, it seems to us that you act with very little respect for your fellow-citizens and manage them. And this is not about winning a vote or losing a vote. No, no. That's not what we're talking about here. We're talking about political matters here, and we're talking about playing and doing public business. Today, maybe we lose. But here, you must give an account to the people. And you have to manage the money that belongs to all of us. And, well, to get the first round to finish, we introduced a motion, and the other teams have made some amendments. And at this end, I'm going to examine these amendments a little. If we are going to look at the amendments tabled, in conclusion, I would like to highlight a number of ideas that can be understood from these amendments. One: the money is not from the Government or from those responsible for Osakidetza; the money is from the taxpayers, it is from everyone, which the Government has to account for to the citizens. You only manage the money of everyone, the taxpayers. Put that idea in your head. And if they do not want to do so, if they do not want to account for that management, which is what they come to say with their amendment, they are leaving their responsibilities behind. They don't manage well; they're not good managers. At the very least, it is another example of their harmful management, which now, with those improvement actions that allow us to see in the amendment, they try to hide; they do not try to correct, they try to hide, or at least I have doubts or I doubt that they want to correct, seeing that they do not want to investigate or debug responsibilities. And they show in the amendment that they are trying to hide a fraudulent operation and, perhaps, even with criminal implications. Why? Because they don't want to investigate. Why? Why do you want to hide? Oh, by the way! Mrs Murga told us about a report, which is now disappearing, which is not included in the amendment. Why? Where's that report? The numbers don't match? The bills don't come out?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing the corrections to the group, Mrs Garrido, the representative of the Basque Popular, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. Well, it's in the motion that's been introduced here that EHG calls for the Basque and Osarides to make an audition for the irregularities that have been in the kitchens of Santiago and Redwood. We have to say, at the same time, that, as it was explained in justification and in the explanation of the interpenetration, and according to what we have learned by means of means of communication, the LAB union has also introduced a complaint to the Attorney General of Abba. As yet, and according to our information, we do not know whether this accusation will be accepted or not. And, in this respect, it would be proper to know or wait for the court order or opinion of the U.A.'s, in the presence of this accusation. As I said, in the motion put forward by the EH Bildu group, which relates to the complaint lodged by LAB on this matter with the Álava Prosecutor's Office, the Department of Health and Osakidetza are specifically requested to carry out an economic audit of the awards in the two kitchens of Txagorritxu and Santiago hospitals, covering the period 2012-2019, and to incorporate the economic cost to the public store of Osakidetza of the expendable material and other raw materials of the two hospitals between 2012 and 2019. On the other hand, a second paragraph calls for the investigation and determination of the responsibilities of the destination of public money in the economic management of this OSI, in relation to the supply of expendable material and, in particular, with regard to the kitchen of the Santiago Hospital. As I said, this motion is the cause of an inquiry that was made in the last full session of control, where the questioner directly asked the Health Adviser what measures were to be put in place by the department to clarify these irregularities. Well, according to the arguments used by the proposer, it pointed out that this issue was not a point-by-point issue. We were also explained, as is the case, to which the Counsellor also referred, that there is a single supplier contract that includes food, raw materials and consumables, to provide the diets of the Arab OSI in the kitchens of these two hospitals, apart also from the psychiatric hospital; and, in particular, that this contract has been in force since 2016 and has an amount of EUR 3 million. But what has brought reason and what motivated the inquiry requesting explanations and clarification of these possible irregularities is that Santiago's kitchen, despite the existence of this single supplier contract, makes requests to the public warehouse of that hospital, outside the contract. In her reply, the Counsellor told us that the characteristics of the patients in the three hospitals influence the management of the file, because the costs of raw materials are different in the three hospitals; that accounting aspects of the different centers cannot be compared, because, although they belong to the same OSI and are managed by the same contract, they have particularities. In the reference to the single supplier file, the counselor noted that it carries many peculiarities for the different diets, and that until 2012 Txagorritxu processed the purchase of food in the management of the cafeteria through a single supplier file, while the Santiago Hospital carried out its own purchasing management through different files; and that this situation tries to unify in 2016 with the creation of the Arab OSI, with a single supplier file for the kitchens of the two hospitals, which, as I have also said, includes that of the psychiatric hospital, and which involves the contracting of all the raw material consumable, plus the management of the cafeterias – that is, the food for processing the diets – and the expendable material. The counsellor told us that the terms of the contract, the supply of suppliers and the structure of the service were being verified, and that the organisational confluence of the management of the two kitchens was to be advanced, and that changes were to be made or that the possibility of making changes in the files being processed was being considered, and that the aim was to go to a single manager in the management of the hotelry. Well, we have understood, given, on the one hand, that there is an investigation or there may be an investigation if the complaint lodged by LAB in the judicial field is admitted, that the investigation in that field must be respected, and, first of all, whether that complaint will be admitted; and that, with the admission of that complaint, obviously, a procedure will be initiated, as I say, in this area, which will follow its course. And if so, what I hope and what we will demand is absolute cooperation from the Department of Health and from Osakidetza. But we have understood at this time that the Basque Government, namely the Department of Health and, in particular, Osakidetza, is preparing and forwarding to this Parliament, as soon as possible, a concrete and detailed report on the economic management of the Arab OSI, and that, specifically, reference is made to and analysis of all aspects of the hospitality service, which analyses its functioning, the existence of these possible irregularities – which seem to be there – and the measures necessary to remedy any deficiencies detected. I have to say that we feel it is appropriate to wait for this report, for this report to arrive as soon as possible. We are going to demand this, Madam Counsellor, and, depending on the outcome of that report, in the future we will not rule out an external audit. But we understand that it is better to follow these steps: that the Government prepare this report, and, seeing the conclusions of that report, therefore, reserve the opportunity to request – if we consider it appropriate, as Bildu has already done at the moment – that audit, without prejudice, as I have also said, to the prudence of waiting for the way in which this matter is going in the judicial field. I have to say that, although it is true that on the part of the groups supporting the Government and, in particular, on the part of Mrs Larrauri and Mrs Red, I have been offered a compromise, I have to say that it seemed insufficient to me, as the amendment tabled seemed to me to be insufficient. And I will refer to some of the issues to which you refer in the points you have raised. I think that this is the objective and the intention, as it could not otherwise be, of the Basque Government and Osakidetza; but, also, I would like to know that I find it too self-contained in this case, when we are talking about possible irregularities. We don't know the degree of the irregularities, but there seem to be things... What is clear is that there are certain things that, from the information that comes to us, have not been done well in the management of this dossier. We therefore believe that these procurement dossiers should continue to be implemented with the criteria of transparency, because it seems to us that it is to fall into that self-congratulation which we too often have shown on the part of our group. It seems to us that improvement actions to incorporate changes in future dossiers are good, but I think that is always the case too. That is, the improvement in the actions is something – I understand – that has to be inherent in the actions of this government on a day-to-day basis. We are not talking about making improvements; that is, if we detect where those irregularities are, we need to speak clearly about mechanisms to remedy those irregularities, and, if necessary, also, of course, of internalizing the corresponding responsibilities. That is why I think it is insufficient, such as the text that you have proposed to me as a compromise, and that is why we will defend our initiative. Obviously, we believe that this is the text that is most appropriate at the moment in relation to the Basque Government doing its duties and drawing up and forwarding to the Basque Parliament that report in order to identify where these irregularities are, and to correct them if they have existed. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u20	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u21	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. I will prevent the House from contextualizing the situation referred to by Mrs Ubera and what brings us here today to this debate, and I want to focus on specific points, because I see it very difficult to reach agreements; because, when we get to the rostrum already with the decisions taken and knowing what seems to be going on or what has happened, it is very difficult to find points of agreement. I share with you, Mrs Ubera, the importance of managing public money. Public money, obviously, comes from where it comes from and belongs to citizens, not control, but, of course, that it is used in the best possible way and always for the benefit, in this case, of Basque citizenship. And, of course, there I have to say that I agree with you. What I do not agree with you is that it starts from a point of departure of absolute mistrust. You have come to conclusions without even having begun to deal with it, and, from the utmost respect for the activity and the work done by the unions, I believe that the work of a political party cannot be merely echoed by..., not by concerns, but that this comes to the Prosecutor's Office, and we all know how it comes to the Prosecutor's Office. And he comes to the D.A. without even sitting down and talking or pretending to talk to the necessary interlocutor. Therefore, we have data that, in my opinion, have not been contrasted; data that have been interpreted in a concrete way, but the way in which we can talk to who is responsible and who has the answers before going to the Prosecutor's Office has not been used. Furthermore, the Office of the Prosecutor, today, has no record that it has opened proceedings; therefore, we will have to wait for what happens to this matter. This, on the one hand. On the other hand, I believe that data is sometimes used and large claims are used without taking into account what this implies, and it is not the same work that a union does outside or what any civil society collective does outside of what the political parties do in this rostrum. And talk about corruption, about client networks, about practices that seem to be used, about what will happen in the other OSI if it is happening in the Arab OSI, about what will happen in other areas..., man, it seems to me, Mrs Ubera, absolutely irresponsible in what has to do with this issue, that we will see how it ends; irresponsible on the part of a political party that has a trajectory like the one that has the party to which you belong. I have read in detail Mrs Murga's reply in that plenary, in which she first contextualized where the situation came from and then explained what the Government's view was of what could or would be done. What I have read in an objective way – I believe – I do not find any intention of concealing what you are proposing, nor an attempt at justification; indeed, it speaks of that report to which Mrs Garrido refers, which, by the way, was the point you raised in the amendment. And you know, besides, we were... Both Mrs Larrauri and I were prepared to agree with you on that amendment, because we agreed with that report, because, in addition, Mrs Murga is the first to put it in the plenary, and I therefore believe that we should be a little careful in dealing with these kinds of situations. This legislature has been characterized in what has to do with Osakidetza for thinking much more about electoral and party revenues beyond protecting the institution, and I think that we should also each put ourselves in the right place. I believe that Osakidetza has suffered a number of accusations, some evenings and others not so veiled, from his group, and I believe that here we should all be held responsible for what we are able to say in the rostrum. Therefore, I repeat: there is no record that the Office of the Prosecutor has opened proceedings. We understand, from what we know, that the union for which this complaint comes rejected the way of talking with the hospital concerned, and we also believe that things could be done differently. The Government ensures that public money is managed in the best possible way. In the amendment tabled by the two groups that we support to the Government, we speak clearly of dealing with this and everything with transparency criteria, and we clearly say the actions of improvement for the incorporation of changes. Therefore, we understand that everything is not done well and that everything has a margin to do things differently. Therefore, an insufficient amendment, Mrs Garrido, does not sincerely share that. I believe that, perhaps, at another time, otherwise, agreements could have been reached. And then, yes, I would like to put to Mrs Ubera, when you say that the money is from taxpayers, that the money is not from the government, where you see in the textuality of the amendment of the PNV and PSOE groups as we understand that this is going to be managed as we want for those we want, in that customer network of which you have been encouraged to talk, in addition to talking about hiding fraudulent behaviors, of a number of things that, frankly, you can say what you want in the gallery from the freedom of expression that any political party has, but I think you should hold on to some clear argument that you can justify that we are here talking about corrupting them and situations that, of course, if they happen, are in the Prosecutor's Office; and we will see what happens, but, finally. The Government is therefore clear what needs to be done; Mrs Murga raised it in the inquiry. We have not even made up the possibility of reaching an agreement, because it is intended that we recognize the possibility of irregularities when this has not even begun to work and we are not clear what is going to happen. Let us wait for that report, which Mrs Murga is talking about, to see what the statements made by the Government are based on, and thus to contrast with what you say. And then, the data on which certain statements are made let us interpret them as they are, in a responsible and objective way, so as not to manipulate the final result of what we are able to say. I think we're at a bit of a political moment... I don't know if I'm convulsing or how to say it, but I don't think we should use the rostrum just thinking about the acronyms of the political parties we're in, because I think Osakidetza is above what we all have to say. Therefore, we are all responsible political parties, and we do not use certain situations thinking much more about electoral revenues, party revenues. Those who say they only care about the institution, the doctors, the taxpayers' money, the best management... far from it, all you are doing is harming the institution that was best valued by the Basque citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u22	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team. Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u23	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Chief Physicians Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Well, today we are discussing a motion that follows an inquiry that is based on a complaint from a union – the LAB union – which seems to be the proposing group's own, and in particular refers to the management of the hospitality contract of the Arab OSI, a contract that includes the kitchen services of both hospitals, Santiago and Txagorritxu, as well as the service to the psychiatric hospital of Araba and the cafeteria service. And, in particular, the complaint focuses on the kitchen of Santiago Hospital, which I don't know if... that is, Mrs. Ubera said the most bewildered. The truth is, I think it's a... I don't know if I've got it right, but it seems to me a rather inappropriate and disrespectful rating, but, well. And it's clear..., totally in agreement that Osakidetza manages public money, but, well, at this point, make those claims... I believe that we have no doubt that, of course, good management must prevail. Interestingly, the data on which the complaints are based have been published by the Arab OSI itself. They must be, they are a consequence of the transparency policy of this centre. They're posted on the intranet. Monthly consumption reports are published, to which all professionals in Osakidetza as a whole have access. However, this data... that it is already seen here to hide, to disguise, nothing, because they are data that have been published by the Arab OSI itself. However, for the complaint, therefore, the union obtains data which, well, which are indeed detailed data, but we understand that they are collected in part and, of course, without the traceability required for a question of these. And, of course, in order to interpret, to arrive at certain conclusions, it is necessary to analyse the documentation as a whole, and in this case to see whether it relates to a procurement, for the specifications and the rest of the documentation accompanying the procurement. And, of course, I do not doubt that the union – in this case, the LAB union – has done a hard job and that it has taken several exercises, but, of course, what seems to be missing is a contrast, a minimal contrast with the entity and those responsible for handling this data. They have come directly to the Office of the Prosecutor and the media with minimal suspicion; yes, for several exercises, but with partial data, directly to the Office of the Prosecutor and the media, without having any interest in the centre giving the appropriate explanations. And, of course, it has insisted, offered and insisted, on giving these explanations, even by Mrs Murga on the day of the inquiry, in the response to the inquiry on 13 December. And, for more affluence, therefore, the proposing group has also requested an appearance, an appearance of those responsible for both the Department of Health and Osakidetza, and has not even waited to receive these explanations. It has not even exhausted the parliamentary track. It does not exhaust or explore; nor does it explore, nor does it even exhaust, the necessary preliminary and logical ways of receiving explanations, and the union goes directly to the Prosecutor's Office, and you directly here with a motion that, of course, does not seem to fix or solve the situation in anything, if there is anything to solve. In addition, you, well, in the application for appearance, talked about him giving explanations of LAB's complaint. Man, someone's complaint will have to explain the complainant, right? But, well, I understand it was a not-so-right wording. You also ask for an exhaustive... the proposing group requests a thorough audit of this contract only, and, in addition, they require that responsibilities be cleared. We, of course, cannot agree with these requests, we cannot. We do not agree that such an audit is required. There are means or systems, prior procedures to be explored. And, for every suspicion or for every data that doesn't match, for every Osakidetza contract, Osakidetza cannot commission audits of all its contracts because data at a given time doesn't match. And there is absolutely no lack of attitude here or of Osakidetza's office. As the counsellor said, measures are being taken, not only in this contract, but in the continuous improvement of recruitment. And, as for the responsibilities you speak of, man, for the time being, the principle of presumption of innocence remains in force. Inverting the burden of proof, then, does not seem to us to be very responsible. And we're talking about some very serious accusations. You, on the day of the inquiry, and right here today, have made some very serious accusations; for a minimum of responsibility and prudence, we should have a more solid basis, at least. As far as the Group of the European People's Party is concerned, it also talks about irregularities. What we do not agree with is that we are talking about getting rid of irregularities. We can and do share that report. But it's just that, in fact, the... And we offered it in the deal. Mrs Murga, in her inquiry of 13 December, has already reported that a working group within Osakidetza has been set up, consisting of the economic and financial leadership, which is implementing, identifying systems for improving recruitment and, in addition, collecting all the necessary documentation to prepare that report. With this, as far as the report is concerned, no problem. And the counselor, at that time, also made a very timely contextualization, which you, Mrs Ubera, did not want to hear; you were not interested. You were only interested in expendable materials or products, and you didn't want any other kind of explanation. And yet, this contextualization is necessary and timely. We share..., in fact, I refer..., because I am not going to be as extensive as Mrs Murga was in her day, but, of course, it does influence the process of integration of OSI, contracts, the unification of contracts; it influences the complexity of interpretation in order to manage, interpret those contracts with a very high difficulty. And, of course, there are many elements that are relevant: diets, different patients, different cultures of the centers... Everything influences and makes them difficult to compare accounting aspects of both centres. And, in addition, the successful integration of the Arab OSI should also be highlighted, although it has been a difficult path and, in some respects, it could be said that even traumatic, but it has been and continues to be a challenge; successful, which is successful. But, of course, the centre is aware that there are still many aspects to improve. And so we, in our amendment, ask that, with transparency criteria and within the framework of legality, as it cannot otherwise be, for further progress to be made, that measures be taken to ensure that further progress is made in the organizational confluence of the Santiago and Txagorritxu hospitals and thus continue to improve public health care. Therefore, we do not think anything responsible or prudent or just that, with suspicions or data that do not fit, he goes to the Office of the Prosecutor and the media directly without having demanded an explanation, a minimum prior contrast. And you know it, Mrs. Ubera: you have no interest. And the goal is to throw away efforts, effort, the great effort that has involved integration and good management and, in general, the good image of Osakidetza. And as far as the prosecution is concerned, well, we have no record today that the complaint has been admitted. But, as it cannot be otherwise and as Mrs Murga also announced, of course, if you were to admit, then do not doubt that you will cooperate, that you will lend all the necessary and necessary cooperation. And just thank you. Well, we'll only protect our correction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. We're passing over to a group that hasn't been running any corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Uria. Yes, you. Your turn. Now, now. uri serano I am going to try not to repeat myself, and only, and very briefly, I am going to put forward some lines of reflection on what comrade Rebeka Ubera is proposing to us. Trade union organizations of the Santiago Hospital and the Txagorritxu Hospital appear to have submitted documents on alleged irregularities in the accounting management of the Arab OSI to the Office of the Prosecutor, I believe from Bilbao, not from Álava. Companion Rebeka Ubera, echoing these allegations, presented an inquiry into the matter and this motion resulting from it, requesting an audit of the economic management of the Arab OSI in relation to the obligations of the private company responsible for the outsourcing of those activities, currently in force, as well as the responsibilities of the economic and financial direction of that OSI. To our parliamentary group, comrade Ubera has not reported the facts. We don't know any documents. The documentation that argues that we don't know her. The alleged irregularities have been heard; they have been repeated here three times already. We don't know them; the union agents who have filed the complaint with the Prosecutor's Office either. Reminds me when the anesthesiologists, Roberto and Marta, came to see me and Cristina, and they said, "There are leaks of tests in Osakidetza." And I said, "Don't tell me! We've known that for a long time." And he says, "What are you going to do?" And he says, "Nothing if you don't submit data." The parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos did nothing until the anesthetists brought us the notary's reports. That is why we have not tabled an amendment to the motion, although we thank Mrs Larrauri, in particular, for the information and the insistence on explaining her position. However, we will support the proposal for this motion. And there are several reasons, which are easy to understand. We are, we must be in another political cycle. The disastrous management of the cases of fraudulent OPEs still tried and other different cases, such as the same case of corruption Miguel on the basis of prevarications, must contribute his teachings. They can't leave us indifferent, just so we don't repeat them again. Zero corruption, maximum transparency in public accounts, agility in detecting problems. If I were the managing director of the Arab OSI, given the same indications of alleged irregularities, I would have already organized an internal audit, with the necessary discretion always, of course. She already commented that a report was to be drawn up, and in fact it seems a while ago as a committee is investigating the matter. We do not have any information on the report or on the investigation of that committee to know the reality of the facts and their perpetrators and to make the relevant decisions. It is normal, it should be normal for anyone responsible for any management unit to listen to the social actors and act responsibly and agile. Is it always necessary to bring the problems that are detected to justice? Is there a need for further parliamentary debates on alleged corruption matters? It is known to all that the so-called outsourcings of the various areas of Osakidetza's activity, especially of hospitals – cleaning, laundry, kitchen, maintenance... –, if not systematically evaluated according to the terms contained in the concession documents signed with Osakidetza, are susceptible on multiple occasions to corruption, both in the management of personnel and their prevalence and in the management of the allocated resources. We already know that. If we already know it, let's put in the necessary systematic assessment tools. Given the indications or suspicions of accounting irregularities, who can be against at this time of an audit? Internally or externally. The PNV? The PNV, the first, the most interested in having an audit. Internally or externally. The PSOE? He has already said the clear position of Natalia Rojo. The PP? Laura explained it perfectly. And this is Bildu and us. We all agree that, in the face of suspicions or indications, either internally – call it a report, call it an audit – or externally, the situation is analysed. The matter is already being brought to justice. What tour are you going to have? We don't know. Why do we support the motion presented by comrade Rebeka? Because it has an indisputable democratic logic. All the groups have said so. What happens is that some groups have raised it internally and others have raised it externally. But no one has taken the initiative. And he says, "Yeah. The counselor has already said that an internal investigation report on the subject will be made." We don't have any information, no data. We must all turn the page on alleged irregularities, on the constant suspicion of corruption, not to properly assess the so-called collaboration of the public and private sectors, especially in Osakidetza. We can't and shouldn't look anywhere else. As Councillor Erkoreka well knows, we play the prestige of the Basque public administration. Next week, transfers: pharmacy, school insurance, pension supplement. Is our Basque public administration sufficiently accepted not only for the transfer process, but also for the challenges of quickly and democratically detecting the signs, suspicions and problems of irregularities in the Basque public administration, which are quite complex? That's the question, isn't it? There is a need for systematic assessment tools and rapid decision-making. From our democratic sensibility; from our agility in making timely decisions at every opportune moment; from our capacity for transparency and democracy; from our capacity, ultimately, of adequate political will; from the Government and also from the opposition it depends on us being an example in Euskadi for our people, for our workers and professionals in Osakidetza and for the rest of the Spanish State. That is why we support the motion, because it is a pure democratic logic and should have been done before. And the rest of the parliamentary groups, therefore, man, we support that they do the same, which, in one way or another, they have raised. While they do not support – those who have intervened – the external audit that the motion has raised, they do support information about the facts, internal audit, or that the report that counseled us raised is real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u25	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u26	Mrs Red, you have become the defender of the lost causes by party strategy in Osakidetza. Mistrust, no; we ask for audit, investigation, clarification. There was a meeting where the manager didn't show up, and if you want, I'll tell you who was at that meeting, who was responsible for that meeting. Today I have seen the same attitude and way of acting as in the OPE. Do you remember what's going on at OPE? Remember? You guys are still the same. And here, the person who harms the organization and the Osar, is your behavior, not to investigate. Organization, Osistation is a value to investigate, to clear things, to judge them, to run good management, and you don't do it. And yes, with the data that went in from LAB I said before, with the data of the Araiba OSI to the elders, and they were silent. They wanted to hire him, the others didn't. We don't have a problem hiring data. You find out, you report it, you go to the auditorium, you do it. Where is that report? Don't numbers look like one? What's going on? Don't numbers count? And this is where it is necessary to make a auditorium. A contract wasn't made, 3 million euros, it didn't fit. And it seems as if Osacides were indifferent to him, this government is indifferent to him. What do we do with public money? It's not ours. Or did you? We use it for our interests, and that's what you have to justify in front of the people, not us, you must prove it, this government has to prove it. And what you do instead of doing, is to try to confound public opinion: No, no, no, this has nothing to do with confession. Something has happened here, and you have to figure it out. Portzierto, aurrekoan, Murga anderek esan zuen, aipatu zuen orin chief Bakarra izendatuko duzuela, chief Bakarra. Zergatik orin chief Bakarra? Nor izendatuko duzue? Santiagokoa edo Txagorritxukoa? Zergatik? Zergatik? Hori zer yes? Detachment beats? A covert dismissal without debugging responsibilities so as not to make the dismissal public, so as not to assume responsibilities? What's going on? How does this government work? How's the subject of public responsibility? How's it going? And now you're going to come along and tell them you're going to make improvements. A ver Look, we don't know what the prosecutor will say and what he won't say, but even if he says what he's going to say, the government has a responsibility, and he's got to do what I've said before. for political care and public care. You have to make a hearing. You must admit, it's been a bad management. Accept that the contract has not been completed because the contract hasn't been completed and hasn't been tracked. And therefore political cares ought to be determined. That's the management. En Fine. If you don't do all this, you're the last managers. Then in front of this parliament, once again, the Medical Department will have to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a few things to say. On the one hand, when the Socialist Party and the Jeltmatic Party speak of the report, it is plain that it has nothing to do with the report which is being demanded of the Poptular party, because, in the exact correction we make of it, we say that the differences which have been clearly explained in this report must be clearly explained, and must be taken in order to illustrate and correct all these irregular measures. Then, when we're talking about the report, it's clear that the notions of the report of Government or of the organization of the Government are quite different. Our report is not the report you are proposing. And besides, in this proposed transaction, you say that he will make a report, but you have not mentioned anything about irregularities. That is why I was telling you, Mrs Larrauri, that we are not talking about the same report. In your compromise amendment, you make no reference to any report. They talk about making improvements, they talk about continuing to act with transparency criteria. If all that is very well; all that is presupposed in a performance of the Basque Government, and when public money is managed. But we're not talking about that. We are talking about possible irregularities in the management of a specific contract and a specific file, and above all that it has been possible to act and to make a supply of material outside a contract which includes the provision of such material. And, therefore, I believe..., I, of course, will not be suspected of following LAB and LAB's arguments, but I understand that, if a complaint has been made by a union, whatever it is, before the Prosecutor's Office, the Prosecutor's Office will say what it has to say. We will see whether this complaint is admissible or not, whether proceedings are initiated in the judicial field, as appropriate. But it is true that we have also discussed this issue. There seems to be no inconvenience, or I understand that there has been no inconvenience on the part of the Basque Government, as the adviser said, in verifying the status of that file and of that contract. I don't know if the analysis of that particular contract was the result of the complaint being filed with the Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, if that announcement is made after the complaint has been filed with the Office of the Prosecutor, it will understand that this group also understands that the Government itself understands that there may be things that have not been done well. I therefore believe that what is right at the moment is for the Basque Government to draw up and forward to us this report, as soon as possible, which is what this group is asking for, but not just any report, but a report clarifying whether there have been irregularities or not; and, if there have been irregularities, what are they, how are they to be remedied, the corresponding improvements in the whole of the recruitment and the dossier, and then, of course, whether responsibility is to be assumed, which are to be taken over. And the judicial route, obviously, will take its course. Man, and it would be desirable that, since there is an appearance already requested by a group in this House, which is the same one that has brought the inquiry and the motion, man, it would be desirable – I say – that in that same appearance, when it is completed, this report be explained by the adviser. We are going to be demanding with the request for this report, and, of course, if this report does not satisfy us, then we will, of course, look at other avenues, such as those proposed here by the group that has put forward this initiative. But we are going step by step, that is so, but firm steps, and we are not going to stray from the way, and the way is that report that clarifies whether there have been irregularities or not; and, if there have been irregularities, where they are, who has been able to commit them, where the negligence has been, and that they are also remedied. And, if there have been irregularities, obviously, that will never happen again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u29	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u30	Thank you, President. Look, Mrs. Ubera, defender of lost causes for party strategy, not one. It's just that I don't think you understand the role of political parties and you don't know how to differentiate when one is managing and when another is in opposition. You have devoted the entire legislature to setting the Health Commission on fire. And, then, I think that, since it hasn't worked out for you all of the OPEs, because it doesn't go the way you wanted it, because, then, now you've taken this, you take it with tweezers, you take it with tweezers, Mrs Ubera, because I think the explanation given by Mrs Murga is clear. Another thing is that you don't want to understand her. And I will say that the Socialist Party of Euskadi does not mark a partisan strategy on what can benefit from this issue, in this case, from the Health Committee, because, perhaps, if we thought of that, the role would have been another. Here we are to ensure that things are done well, well, Mrs. Ubera, well. And you sometimes tell us things in half. Indeed, there was a meeting on 18 November, at the request of the LAB union, and they met with them, not knowing why they were meeting. When they get there, the issue arises; they are told to meet on the 19th, the next day, in a more detailed and quieter way, when they actually know what they wanted to talk about. What did LAB say? No, I don't. They're called back, and they're like, "Hey, what do you think if we meet to talk about this?" What did LAB say on the second occasion? No, I don't. So let's count things as they are. It is not Osakidetza's responsibility that the interlocution has not taken place. There was one, not knowing what it was going to talk about, and there were two proposals that the union refused, Mrs Ubera. But I did not want to come here to tell you this, because the work of the Socialist Party is not to criticize the management of any union. And, as LAB is, it can be interpreted that, as it seems that they are far from the Socialist Party ideologically, we are against it. Mrs Ubera, we cannot do politics simply by echoing what some unions do when they want to do, and, above all, by sticking to what is happening in Osakidetza to talk about things that have no basis. That, one. Same attitude to OPEs. Yes, you were part of the most important agreement following the problem of OPEs. You were part of that motion of so many points, that we were able to agree on all but one points. But he didn't serve the covenant. And you have not respected what was agreed upon there, and you have continued to burn down and burn down the issue of the EPAs, Mrs Ubera. Therefore, do not place us on the other responsibilities that are not. We're on. What's Osakidetza doing? Are you doing what you should do? Osakidetza is managing what belongs to him. The Government is trying to solve the problems where they exist, doing so in the best possible way. And Bildu's on fire. Point. Because, as far as I know... I have listened carefully to him the first and second intervention; he has not argued to me anything to support corruption, client networks, that the counselor hides, that I don't know what... Nothing, free phrases, big newspaper headlines that all they do is hurt that institution you say you want to protect. It's just not true, and I don't think it's all worth it. The report. Mrs Garrido, the report seems to have been invented by the People's Party. That the report was made by Mrs Murga. You have taken the question and raised what you see as a possible solution, but it is a government proposal. And then you have done what you do many times: one of lime and one of sand; want to criticize the government little in the first intervention and want to criticize the government a lot in the second, joining a little, in this case, Mrs Ubera. By his statement, I voted for Bildu. Why have you not signed a compromise amendment if, listening to you, you are closer to the opposition's arguments? What happens is that, when you want to stay in the center, you have to prepare the argument very well, and it has nothing to do with what you said at first with the tone and what you said at the end, and nothing to do with, of course, the vote that you will exercise when the time comes for the vote. "Implementation improvements," they said. To implement improvements is to recognize that everything can improve. It does not imply corruption; let it be clear that it does not imply that things have been done wrong, that it has been hidden, that this is opaque, that there is a client network, that it is benefiting I don't know who... No, I don't. That can be improved. All we had to do was get the counselor here and say that Osakidetza is the panacea in which the world has to look. That no, that it is recognized that, in fact, there will be things that need to be done better. Hence recognizing that there are corrupt attitudes, forgive me, but I don't see it, I don't see it, and, if not, justify it; come down here and justify it. And then, I think we should be a little more responsible with all this happening, and, when someone considers that there is an attitude that can be a crime, indeed, that is what the Prosecutor's Office is for, but we must know how to separate the role of the Prosecutor's Office; the role, in this case, of the trade unions, in the freedom of action they have; and the role of the political parties. Because what we say here, what appears in the minutes and what we sign has an impact that doesn't have those meetings that seem to exist but that doesn't exist. And above all, let's tell the truth, and let's count things as they are: a meeting without knowing what was going to be talked about, two proposals and two negatives. Therefore, to see who has refused here the interlocution. The media and the Office of the Prosecutor have been preferred rather than informing themselves and trying to resolve what appeared to be of concern.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u31	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u32	Thank you again, Mr. President. Well, I insist, and, along Mrs Red's lines, there has been no interest here in gathering information, in contrasting the matter, and she has gone directly to the prosecution and the media. Neither LAB – in this case, the complainant union – nor the proposing group have had any interest or lost a single minute in wanting to receive, in wanting to clarify the situation with which they have, with which they can explain it, and have come directly to the Prosecutor's Office and the media. And it is curious that the proposing group – in this case, EH Bildu – avoids the dialogue, the dialogue with which, sometimes, our mouth is filled so much, and then running to judicialize the matter. And I believe that, too, in addition to this, which is quite enough, these accusations have no rigour. It is true that there are data that seems to be inadequate, but, of course, not enough rigour for the accusations being made, and I have my doubts that many of those who are talking here about such, such serious facts, have read these consumption reports, have even read the documentation that is available at the moment; I doubt it very much. And as for the audit, or the audit or nothing, or the audit or everyone will be responsible, well, I think there are, of course, other ways. The disjunctive is not audit or nothing or all responsible. We must first explore other avenues. Of course, documentation is being collected, but the most important thing is that means are being put in place for recruitments, in general, to continue to improve, as Mrs Murga said. Irregularities. Well, here we are talking about irregularities, responsibilities, but we are constantly reversing the burden of proof. It's not here anymore... The presumption of innocence is not in force; here it is guilty until proven otherwise, is it not? It does not seem logical or sensible in a Parliament to walk like this. And, in the end, let us not forget that we are discrediting Osakidetza and, in particular, the whole system, the whole public system, with this kind of performance. And then you, Mrs. Ubera, say, "It's that you stopped doing it; at the time of the complaint, you stopped doing it, you changed your attitude; that is, the cotton test." Man, no. Acting cautiously is not wrong, and modifying or introducing changes to keep improving, whether that is the proof of the cotton of macrocorruption, man, I think there is a rather irresponsible leap there. In any case, the situation is being analysed and means are being put in place to further improve. As for the Group of the European People's Party, therefore, the report to which you refer is what Mrs Murga literally said in her reply to the question. It's just literal. The detailed report being prepared by the detailed working group is literal. What happens is that you then put some surnames of possible irregularities, deficiencies, remedy deficiencies... Man, and then, as you will understand, we were not going to come in to accept that kind of qualifications, but it is that the report is not your harvest; she said, offered it, reported about it Mrs Murga. And as far as Mr Uria's position is concerned, I say this to him with respect, and I appreciate him personally, but it is that his explanation today, well, partly because it seemed that he was going to support our amendment; then he was going through that of the People's Party; and he ends up supporting that of Bildu. I really don't understand your vote. It's gone I understand that by the branches, and ends up voting for Bildu's, which, for me, of course, does not coincide with the presentation you were making. I've seen you start moderately sensible when you say you have to exhaust the tracks, but you're done with the audit: "And here, on any suspicion, audit." Man, killing canyon flies... And audits, by the way, are external and involve public spending. That you're talking about outsourcing, but in case, an external audit. We don't use our own means for this; we don't. Man, and we are also talking about proper management of the public media, of public resources. Well, a little prudence wouldn't be wrong. And, unfortunately, it seems that in the end here what is most important is contempt; the contempt, in this case, of the Basque public health system in the face of further improvement. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u34	Bai? No, I wasn't going to talk, but this reflection made by comrade Larrauri motivated me. If the management of the Arab OIOS had carried out an internal audit, a commission of inquiry, a report at the time, we would not have supported the motion of comrade Rebeka Ubera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u35	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Now that the discussion is over, we'll put it to the vote, the original text of Mrs. Ubera Aranzeta's motion. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the contrary, 37; the abstaining, the 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u36	So it's not accepted. Since it's not accepted, we're going to vote next to the entire coast of the Basque Groups. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the 10th; the contrary, 48; the Abstations, 17th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u37	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. You can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 37; the contrary, 37; the abstainations 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u38	Since it's a draw, we'll vote again. You can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 37; the contrary, 37; the abstainations 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u39	So, since it's a draw, we'll leave it for the next round. Five point in theme list: "Momation, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Basque Barroj Barojal Group, about the composition of the World Council of the Cultura Oleganeia, the organization, how to work, and how to do business. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u40	Yes, good morning, egun on, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, councillor, councillors, lehendakari. Well, in the process of approving the Basque Autonomous Community's cultural heritage bill, one circumstance was found. She was very curious about the unusual. The bill, a government proposal, regulated the Basque Cultural Heritage Council and its membership, its members. And yet, in the debate in the paper, the legal regulation was lowered. The bill proposed, as part of the legal text, that the legal regulation of the said council be reduced to regulatory regulation; that is, that the Government, at its discretion, approve the management decree of the Euskadi Cultural Heritage Council, of its functions, its members, that is, the essential issues in a council, which is very important, that it had to have important functions within the development of a law that is also considered important, which was the Euskadi Cultural Heritage Act. Well, at the discretion of the Government, then, the council and its members will be proposed. It did not seem to us a good decision, since we would have preferred to feed the council, in the debate of the presentation, in the legal text itself, of the people suitable to be part of it; in theory, therefore, representatives of institutions or expert areas. In any case, with the questioning of Mr Zupiria and with this motion, I would like to try to influence the Basque Government in the final decision on the adoption of the future regulation, the future decree, and in the decision to integrate suitable people in the defence of heritage and expert people in all possible areas, within what has substance in the management and defence of heritage and in the knowledge of cultural heritage. In the text of the bill, it was already seen as the council fit – and the decree will do so, we assume, following that line of argument in the bill – to many people of the government. The government is very well represented – okay – as well as the outlaws and other entities: the UPV, etc., etc. And we understand that, in addition to these people, they have room for experts in fields that work in the cultural field in many of their expressions. And there are some of those that we identified at that time and we continue to identify now. That is why this motion or inquiry does not seek to be adopted as much as to influence, in some way, the decision of the Government at the time concerning that composition of the Basque Cultural Heritage Council. In the bill, you spoke only of the UPV, and there are other universities in this country that are experts in the issue of cultural heritage, with very important teachers, with important professors in matters related, through the letters, through history, through the social sciences, to the cultural heritage. That is to say, there are more universities, in addition to the UPV, that can integrate, for good, that body, which tries to be excellent in advising, in advising, in relation to reports that can evacuate in a matter as important as cultural heritage in all its expressions and in all its fields. And in that sense, then, in those other universities, not only in the public, but in others, there are suitable people, and we would like them to be in the definitive decree, as we would have liked them to have been in the definitive law, which was not so. And, as far as the dioceses of the Catholic Church – all of them owners of a A huge cultural, artistic, religious, architectural heritage – they also did not appear in the bill in what was the composition of the Basque Cultural Heritage Council, and yet the dioceses themselves have genuine experts who look after that heritage, who know it, who care for it, who know how to manage it; and the council could well integrate a representative of all those dioceses that we know. We have been with them in what is the regulation of the law, at the presentation stage, of the amendments. We know that there are people who know the cultural heritage very well and know how to manage it. Well, those people, those people also have to somehow be integrated into that advisory council, and that's why we attach importance to the Basque Cultural Heritage Council. And those persons linked to the dioceses can well advise and be part of the work of the body concerned. I have little more to say, because what I want is to see the future action of the Government when drafting this decree, these areas which we have considered to be interesting and important for the management of cultural heritage. That is why we said in our motion that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, in the final composition of the Council of Cultural Heritage of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, to integrate representatives of the Basque universities with faculties and degrees of human and social sciences, where all these professors, teachers, are part, in an area very linked to the defense and knowledge and research of the cultural heritage, and of the Basque dioceses, owners and conservatives of a rich cultural heritage. Well, this motion was clear, it was punctual. You have had some amendments, and they are not bad: the amendments by Mrs García or Mr Estarrona... Well, logically, we can share them as criteria of certain time, balanced composition – it seems to us – but they do not enter into the punctual or do not enter into the concrete that we, of course, intended. Well, there they are: to urge the Government to present it promptly; to ensure that the experts are indeed represented. But, well, that's why we have made it clear – of course it is – that all the experts are, but, some that were not part of the bill, that they are. In that sense, therefore, there are your amendments, which are not bad. But in any case, it was difficult to make a transaction, logically because ours wasn't going to be picked up. And they have also tabled, as I have seen, a compromise amendment which reflects what Mrs García basically said to her. And there it will be approved, in any case, then, well, that the government presents the decree. What we want is to influence. We don't care whether our motion is approved or not; we want to influence it, because the Government has to do it. I hope, therefore, that Mr Zupiria, who is present today at this meeting, will take up this proposal. More than a motion, it's a suggestion. We had to turn it into a motion after the interpellation we held. The amendments do not seem bad to us, but, in any case, we want the Basque dioceses – with many experts in cultural heritage, and also dioceses owned by the majority, so to speak, of our cultural heritage – to be integrated into this important body as the Basque Cultural Heritage Council is going to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u41	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours. garcía▁larrimbe Well, Mr. Barrio made it very clear. It brings us, for discussion, a very concrete initiative around the composition of the Council of Cultural Heritage of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, which, moreover, comes from an inquiry and a request that he had made and that we amend. We understand, moreover, that it is an initiative that comes eight months after the adoption of a law that, for the most part, is a law worked with consensus. And, in addition, we, as a group, from Elkarrekin We can congratulate ourselves on the work that was carried out during the presentation to achieve a law that we understood to have various sensibilities and that was really necessary for the preservation of the heritage in Euskadi. It is true that, after eight months, there has been enough time for the development of the regulation. It is also true that, in that law that we adopted in May, it was already mentioned that, in terms of the composition of that body, apart from regulatory development, it had to be made up of qualified staff from the different institutions, and that, in addition, it was a body that would be flexible in that, depending on the cases to be consulted or studied, the persons or professionals who were experts in certain subjects were called. It seemed to us to be an open, flexible composition, which also included all sectors, which left no one out. And one contribution that we made – and that is why we brought it back today in the amendment – was that it was a balanced composition between men and women, that there would be parity both in the composition of the plenary itself and in the future commissions that will be created for the different cases that were emerging. So, just as we work on it and agree on it in the law, when we come across the initiative that Mr Barrio brings us today, we make the amendment in the same terms. It is true that the rest of the amendments talked about deadlines, and it is true that, for Elkarrekin Podemos, eight months is enough time to have made the regulation, and in that we agree. We believe that the Government has had enough time to develop the regulations and establish criteria that we agree with most of the parliamentary groups in the Cultural Heritage Act. So, no, there's not much more to say. We have had an initiative together with the groups that support the Government, because we understand, although we have to be critical with the deadlines and with the times and today we do not know if the legislature will end this week, it will end in a few months... In any case, regardless of the times, it has to be very clear that there has been enough time for the development of this regulation; that, in some way, you have to assume this, Mr. Zupiria, an eardrop for your department, because they were tasks that they had to have done. Moreover, given the spirit of a law that, as you know, was based on an important consensus and was based on an important agreement, it would have been essential to have put to work to develop those issues that were addressed in the articulation of the law. On the other hand, we understand and give a vote of confidence that the development of the regulation will take place as quickly as possible. We demand, moreover, that there be equality, in the composition of the members, between men and women, not only in the body itself, but in the commissions that believe in it. And that is why we have signed the compromise amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours. the scar on the church. I thank Mr. Barrio for bringing this motion here today. It is true that it is a very exact request, as Mrs. Mr. Barrio, you lost this plan at the same time as you did, among the proposals that were made. You've made it clear that more than the impulse to influde was an initiative. And, yes, you must confess your perseverance in that sense. You made a little criticism, because in the law, some of us removed the composition of this commission which was originally received in the law of project, and did not oblige the Government to develop by rule. Well, if we'd done that, it was presbytery predaminant. For example, we might begin to speak of the immatities which were the patrimony of the people, and that the Church took upon them, and that they are now their patrimony. We believe, then, that the organs, organisms, and swallows which are to be present, especially in their común. So, in this way, it was admitted nine months ago, that Eukalka Kulture's Estalia Council and organization of the Esquimia Esquire. and at last we received a rule that a system of execution should be established. It is true, then, that the law receives the nature of those laws. And when, for instance, c, is separated, the balanced representation of women and men is received in the whole, as well as in the possible commissions. Why do I say that? For today, in this medium signed by you, in the second place, precisamente. But let's go a little while. Mrs. Garcia said eight months ago. It's nine. On May the 9th, the last transfer of the law was accepted in the pliant. It's been nine months since that law was approved. But it has already been a year since we saw him in an open understanding that this law would proceed. And in a year, the government has not been able to foresee that several rules should have been developed, which are once admitted. And we don't understand why, knowing it, there was a plan or not in the law's pre-organization of the department and the CEO. We don't know what he's going to say that after nine months he doesn't have a plan and that this rule isn't developed. I don't know, I know it's not a dialogue with the chief physician, but it really surprises us a little, besides, that this law had been on the table even during the two preceding laws. I mean: well, they knew in the department, and some of the operations, some ideas about it, even in the previous law. The government had to go back. So it is not a new law that suddenly seized us: "Ostras! It's accepted. Now what? Let's get started." No, it's not. This, then, must be discussed here, in particular, on the side of time and on the side of time. Gero, form aldetik, klaro, guk, gure emendakinean, as far as the form, we, from EH Bildu, were concerned, in some way, that a contrast should be made before the final adoption of the decree articulating and defining the functioning of the Basque Heritage Council, for a simple question: because it seems to us that, when there is an area, an organ with so many professional people, with professors, with very trained people on the subject, for it seemed to us that, since it exists and that it is also part, in some way, of the functioning of the Basque Government, of the same administration, what better than to take advantage of and go through it in order to receive contrasts and be able to enrich the proposal that can be made from it. And it's just that, more than that, I'm saying it in case someone tells me that it's not so reflected in the law, the need to pass. It is true that it is not collected, but it is a matter of wills, because, as far as the functions of the Basque Council for Culture are concerned, it is stated that measures can be proposed to promote coordinated action in the field of culture, and I believe that this is one of the measures set out in the law that will be developed, implemented subsequently, and that will promote coordinated action in the field of culture. On the other hand, article 8 (c) also states "to study and analyse how many issues concern protection, creation, training, production and cultural dissemination". I therefore believe that it fits very logically into the functions of the Basque Council for Culture, which, by the way, is not working as it should. And here, perhaps, also another apex or point of criticism. And that is why we were raising this issue in our amendment, which seems to be not going to be approved, because there are the government groups together with Elkarrekin Podemos, who have made a compromise, in which what the second of the points said does not address anything, because it is already covered by the law. Therefore, it does not contribute anything to this debate, and somehow it does not urge the Government or force the Government to do anything that it does not have to do. And the first of all is to urge the Basque Government, before the natural end of the legislature... In other words, we would be talking about year and a half already, surely, to develop a decree, a regulation of composition of a council. And I have said this before: I think I have already commented that it seems a little incomprehensible to us the inaction or delay of this decree, of this regulation. And, in that sense, if there is, then, a touch of attention to the Government too for the batteries to be put in. And it seems to us that year and a half... and further delay the creation of this Council... We think it's excessive.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u43	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Galástegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u44	Bai. Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Egun where you're going. Well, the representative of the People's Party brings us today this motion of interpellation, derived from that which was backed up in the full control of last December 13, 2019. In that interpellation, the representative of the People's Party, Mr Barrio, insisted, apart from reminding us of the future of the process of drafting the law, he insisted, as I say, on the idea that the fact that the composition, organization, functioning and functions of the Cultural Heritage Council of the Basque Autonomous Community were regulated by decree was to assume what he described as a "curious legislative reduction", if the transcription is not wrong. And today, in the motion that we are now dealing with, the Basque Government is only urged, fundamentally – well, fundamentally not – to include, with a nominal presence, as Mr. Estarrona said, members of the University of Deusto and the Basque dioceses. In this case, this motion, in the substance of this motion, does not discuss or question this possible depreciation from the point of view of the normative nature or the inadequacy of what is prescribed in the article of the law itself. Nothing. An article, Mr Barrio, which states, by the way, that the Council shall be composed of qualified staff of the institutions of our Autonomous Community and technical specialists or representatives of the professional sectors working in the field of cultural heritage, without additions and without exclusions. He doesn't speak nominally of anyone at all. And the main objective of this new law, which is ultimately what we, the Socialists, consider to be the nuclear and important, and as expressly stated in the explanatory statement, is aimed at ensuring a comprehensive management of the cultural heritage, a management which includes identification, documentation, research, conservation and protection but which also makes explicit the commitment to its transmission, promotion and enhancement, and all this through this more efficient model of protection and promotion of our heritage, guaranteeing, as I said, the transmission, knowledge and enjoyment of present and future generations. It is not necessary to remember, because you have already done so too, but it is timely – It seems – that the law did indeed have a very broad support in this Parliament, and it must also be remembered that it was voted against without any vote. And, ultimately, the only thing the representative of the People's Group is putting forward is, in our view, to try, through this initiative, to achieve what he did not achieve through amendments to the process of drafting the law. You did not then and you will not do so today, Mr Barrio, but what you can, of course, still – and it is time – add to a compromise amendment that we have, in fact, signed by the Basque Socialist Group, the Basque Nationalist Group and the Elkarrekin Group We can, in addition to urging the Government to approve, in fact, that decree that will regulate the Council of the CAV of Cultural Heritage, add a second paragraph that I do not think at all..., in the end, that it is not necessary to always remember, and that is that "the decree must be implemented in the terms described in the fourth article of that law and will encourage a balanced composition of men and women in that council". In this case, any communication in this sense or any manifestation in this sense seems to me to be absolutely necessary, because, moreover, it has to be so and cannot be otherwise in a society like ours, which is intended to be just and equal. I don't think there's much more to say anymore. Having said that, I believe that we all agree on the central issue, which is nothing more than the need for the drafting and publication of the decree in order to comply with the requirements of the law. And I think the debate is no more of itself. So, without another particular, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u46	Yes, thank you, ma'am, and good day, members of the law, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I really think today's discussion doesn't add much to society. Mr. Barrio, your object was not to win the initiative, but to send a message to Mr. Zupiria, perhaps with a telephone call or already with an interpelation? Coming here... We did not expect that, from a law that was born with so much consensus, this whole stage of debate would arise, moreover in full, which you are bringing in. "You say that to influence." Whoever influenced it already did it in the paper. It was, indeed, an amendment to EH Bildu that amended the bill, as you explained. And, well, the truth is that he convinced most of the paper, because the goal that was being pursued was also shared by the Government, which was to give greater flexibility and that, when it came to dealing with the issues in the council, if there were talk of altarpieces, there would be people around that table who knew about altarpieces, and, if there was talk of bersolarism, then there would be people at that table who knew a lot about bersolarism. This is the basis for the ultimate objective of the decree to be made public, which will be adopted this year. The truth is that we are not dragging the Government into a bureaucratic process that involves extending time limits or more administrative work. The Government is interested in that council working, and therefore, well, we will see when they publish the decree, but, in principle, these precepts of making a flexible council and bringing together around that table people who really know the issues on the agenda will be fulfilled. It is not, it does not have to be a council that is a kind of institutional counterpower to the institution. Nor does it have to be a council that is a sort of shareholders' board where each owner of the property defends his or her particular interests legitimately, but it is something that has to go much further. As for the development of the law, well, it is not for me, or for us, our team, to give us an account of the government's initiative, but, well, we know that they are making progress in the development of the law. The decree of elements with fundamental protection, for instance, is at work, and has already been advanced with great steps, as well as with regard to the imperturbary inheritance. A company hired to find out how to deal with it. It is a very precursor account, and the formulas are not yet made, and that must be made up. So, they're making progress, and we've marked a deadline from this legislature. We have said that this decree should be brought to us before the end of natural legislation. The time is quite satisfactory, so we'll see and see. As for the voter, we have a middle course with Podemos, and we will vote against Prenene, in order that we may be consistent with the position we've treated with in poncientia, yes, and in a way... for the law mentions the condition in which the decree should be made. We have discussed these conditions in power, and we have accepted them. From that point on, we believe that the government must leave discretion in order to invent and do as best it can with the formula. And EH Collect demands that Euskal Kultura be passed by Council, and it's curious. The fourth article of the law, Mr. Estarrona, was written by you by hand, and here all the conditions of the decree are given. And now, well, I don't know, you're almost putting this idea on the table as an efficient thing, but I don't know when you got it, or when Mr. Barrio introduced the initiative yesterday or yesterday. That plan is done. Government has its terms, we put them on, we put them on the law project 4th. the article quite altered. So now, putting another additional condition on us doesn't make any sense. Now, it's the government that has to develop this job in its discretion. And yet, the law was a beautiful experience for all of us, and, well, I'm proud of you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u47	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Passing on the answers, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u48	Thank you, President. Very briefly, to answer a couple of questions. The things in which you believe you are contributing or building, then you have to fight them; so you can give a sense of insistence, but you have to fight them, because we think that what we are doing is going to contribute to the defense of the Basque cultural heritage. So that's why we do it. Mr. Estarrona speaks that what I want is a preponderant place of the Church in the Cultural Heritage Council. No, no. I want the place that belongs to him; by capacity, by management of that heritage, by experience, by having expert people. That is why I want it to be; that is, it is a rather objective issue. I don't want anything more than what I can normally give you in view of what you manage. And, in any case, it has mixed matters of the Church with that of registrations. In other words, in the Basque Country there is no registration wrong done, neither appealed nor challenged. That is very important, Mr Estarrona, very important; that is to say, take it into account, because, of course, to criticize a collective on the basis of things that happen elsewhere or on the basis of figures..., well, here we have to say what there is. And, in that sense, look, let us further strengthen the role of the Church in this Autonomous Community. Mrs Gallastegui has spoken of insistence; yes, the truth is that I insist on the normal legislative procedure. I did it in the parliamentary presentation; I did it in the interpellation and in the consequence of the interpellation, which is a motion. So neither... It is a logical or normal insistence within the parliamentary procedure. I didn't get it then because the regulation was lowered, it was reduced from legal to administrative, to regulatory, and I'm not doing it now because you've voted a transaction by taking that off, because you don't seem to like it. But, well, I do it to influence, because I think it's important what I defend, it's important, because both the University of Deusto and the dioceses have a lot to say nominally about cultural heritage, about culture. And, in this sense, in a nominal way, the bill prepared by the Government, in its fourth article, spoke, in a nominal way, of Eudel, spoke of the UPV, spoke of the Official Vasconavarro College of Architects... That is, nominally speaking, he spoke of collectives, of course, who have to influence and who influence the defence of heritage. That is, in that sense, in nominal terms, the Government already intends to make proposals in its decree. Mr. Arruabarrena... "has no added value". Well, it does have the value it has; it has a request from an opposition group to complete, to enrich a decree that is pending and that, in fact, could have already been passed but will be in the near future, and the government was, of course, easy to convince, by Mr Estarrona's amendment. Of course, the Government proposes not to: "We are not going to regulate this in this law; let the Government do it at any time, discretionaryly." Well, of course it was easy to convince. I have never seen an amendment more..., come on, that the members who support the government would enter in a clearer way into the conviction that they had to accept it yes or yes. The discussion of the fourth article in the paper was lowered, and the Government was left to fill in the fourth article. So I think, in that sense, it's what there is, isn't it? Well, insistence or..., I ask Mr. Zupiria to include in the decree the members of the UPV (sic) and the Basque dioceses, because they are experts in Basque cultural heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u49	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Anybody else want to be involved? Together Podemos? No. Collect EH? Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Eta, bear labur, because I was laughing and I think I wanted to share... It is because you have just amended all the registrars of the property of this Autonomous Community, Mr Barrio, denying there has been registration by the Church; and also the decanate of the registrars of the property, because we have a list received in this very Parliament, a very wide list of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, in which all the registrations made by the Church are collected. Man! Badly done, of course. Badly done. If it serves us, if it serves us from time immemorial, if by the grace of God this remains me, which is what they propose, that is well done, on the basis of... Man! With mortgage law. Well, well, if for you that's "well done," well, well, there you are. You give explanations, but for us, we go, for the fact that you have room in a specific mortgage law that comes from franchising, for us, I think they are at all well done. And much less..., ask him, above all, to the people who, for years, from generation to generation, have been putting money, have been financing that heritage that has been created in different places, so that, finally, the Church becomes the owner of it. And, well, once this issue is clarified, it just isn't worth commenting on any more things.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u51	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Will Mrs. Galástegui take the word? No? Not even? Mr. Barrieves? After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Barrio Baroja. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the contrary, 65; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u52	So, not allowed original text. Next, we'll vote together Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and the Eucatis. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the country, 48; the contrary, 0; Abstations, 26.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u53	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Number of points in theme list: "The Moment, introduced by the members of the Househouses and the Legrand EH Union, with regard to the cares of the institutions in the field of care. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Madam Houseboy, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative. houserary legrand "But I confess: My mother's death made me more free, so that I could re-establish my own career. Is life anything else? In the bitterness of bitterness, O the inner force of paradox! He gave me the chance to be born a second time." Mari Luz Esteban gave us memorable essays and poetry books. And my mother's death made me more free. He wrote this book of poetry in love with Crítica al pensamalito. Anyway, she doesn't want to limit that idea to relationships with her mother and child. He wishes to avail himself of this curiosity to reflect on the world, and that is, in some measure, the one that collects it into the essay. With the title of the poem My mother's death made me freer Criticism of loving thought And why have I mentioned this to-day, when we treat of the persons and institutions which are employed in the care of the watch? Now, because we have brought this thought of love into the heart of our institutional activity, and have arranged social services according to it, if we look only to whoever wants to be kept in the house, we have an idea that we are strengthening; the best guardians are made of love. And no, the best carefulness is the best carefulness, professionals or not, but the ones that are done in good conditions and are chosen. We begin from discourse to the decrees which are to be developed to fulfil the law of the Social Services, or we make a remarkable change, or we shall pay no regard to the women, and continue to support this society at the expense of the dean. And we're about to reach the collapse situation. The last study of Oxfamæ says plainly: we are about to arrive at a serious crisis above care. I think there's already a crisis, but women's lives are held up by pretors and by love, so to speak. "The world is facing an imminent care crisis," they say from Oxfam, "resulting from the consequences of demographic ageing, cuts in public services and social protection systems, and the effects of climate change, which threaten to worsen the situation and increase the burden on people taking care work." In the study made by the Imperial and Police Society in 2018, the Department showed us that we are here in the same position, although some have not the same anxiety. Between 2006 and 2018, the proportion of people with severe or total dependency who receive particularly contracted care increased compared to those accessing public or concerted services. There is also a slight increase in the proportion of those who do not receive external assistance. 73,000 Basque households carry out extraordinary expenses linked to dependency. Twenty-one per cent of these households have been forced to make cuts in basic expenses in order to cope with this situation; out of love, out of precariousness, for not responding publicly to the responsibility we have. As Jule the High Office is expressed in the Office guided by the Giver, and as he said in this Parliament, "We have to hire the prosperity of the West between the Mercination of the Guardians and the desecration of the Family." The northern regimes have the lowest degree of mercury, that is to say, they provide watch services encouraged by public enterprise. Even those countries have the lowest rate of familyization. But ours is at the other end, because the rate of mercury is high, because it is three radians from radians and has the highest rate of mortality to the family. Four o'clock in four. The proposition is therefore clear: deflamation and demilization. In two sentences: a public and worthy watch system for all citizens, and a guarantee of the proper working conditions for those who are in pursuit of the watch. On the other hand, we must protect the freedom of men, and especially the freedom of women, in order that they may decide whether they care or not. The proposal is clear: defamiliarization and demercantilization. In two sentences: we need a system of public and dignified care for all citizens and decent working conditions for the people employed in this system. On the other hand, we have to defend the freedom of people, especially women, so that they can decide whether or not they want to care. Eta Gobernu ha mercantilizzio- éta familiarizazio-prozesuak sustatzen ari da. We also had the Society of the NoDomesticadas around the house, and they explained to us the great study they had made. They declared that the Spanish State and the Economics of the Renaissance are the first consumers of the domestic offices of the European Union, and that the facts given by the House of Jule, show us that the watch is in the house, and that, when the women of the house are unable to carry this burden, they are obliged to make external oppositions. A crooked, scribbled, complicated system. And therefore we must look at the whole, and not at any particular case. Hence the reason of our interpenetration, and why we have continued with our modern motion, the chief physician of the Artolarians, who kept guard over the non-professional acts of government. And no, that shouldn't be the only focus. I tried to explain it to you, and I'm trying to explain it now because it's a professional system of care and non-profiosals. We brought four points here. The first two make demands for immediate development of the decision already taken. We're done legal, and from the very first, we've got to make a decree about the senior centers of the people who put the Basque People together on the table. It was bad and late, and once more we all agreed to remake it. We have requested that the use of the ratios according to the person and quality service should be used, we have continued to demand and continue to demand and to continue what is specified in the war, not in the merchandise, and in the remuneration. On the other hand, in contrast to the situation of women who have devoted their lives to watch, we have often remarked that they must take immediate measures; we are talking of historical observation. And if we are to proceed from words to actions, we must talk of money, to establish precise measures. Therefore, the mass of compensation is necessary, for there is no consideration of the material necessary to present itself to the present. In the third place, we have proposed a program to promote a lavitial incarnation for people who are working in the negligized and precorated sector, to promote these situations, and to join their own position in the pay-roll. We are amazed that, in a work supposedly developed with experts, trade unions, employers..., one of the most important reasons for the wage gap is not the whole care system. And if we don't analyze it in this way, everything we can propose, however interesting it may be, will be patches in a reality that is much deeper than some claim; because, although some think that the problem is that women have not chosen the right career, the problem is patriarchy and precariousness. That is why we called for concrete measures to be put in place now. We have been talking about care for four years; we have been talking about women who are professionally engaged or who, outside their profession, dedicate their time to this important issue that concerns us all. And let's hope that we get started and that within four years no one will understand Mari Luz Esteban's book of poems, when she says that my mother's death made me freer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u55	Good morning again, everyone. Well, first of all, I have to thank Mrs Etxebarrieta for starting her speech by reading some verses of women who want to be free, because that is always appreciated, and, moreover, we often say many things in this atrium, but rarely do they make as much sense as the verses with which Mrs Etxebarrieta started today. Going to the question and the motion, which is what concerns us, from Elkarrekin We can celebrate that care is present in this plenary. Since we arrived at this institution, we have been working to ensure that care is on the Basque political agenda, that it takes a priority place in Parliament, in the new Statute or in budgetary agreements. And that is why we welcome all the initiatives that they put or come to discuss policies that directly impact in this area. Historically they have been invisible to the eyes of traditional politics. In everyday reality, it has been anonymous and invisible women who for centuries have carried out all the tasks that people need to survive and live with dignity, and who also need the entire system to stay afloat. The special care needs of dependent people – children, adolescents, sick people, elderly people or with functional diversity – are a daily concern for all families, because absolutely all of us at some point in our lives need or will need care. And it is high time that this daily reality was placed at the centre of the concerns of the institutions and of those who make the decisions. It is the responsibility of all of us and of all parliamentary groups to know, recognize this reality and propose concrete solutions to the challenges that thousands of Basque families already have in their hands every day. The debate on care must also be said to have many edges. It is up to us all, because we all need care and homework, but it is a particularly urgent debate for some sectors. Pensioner women, for example, who have spent their entire lives working at home and caring today continue to care for grandchildren and grandchildren. A lifetime without being able to contribute to a blind social security to this reality what is necessary to have a decent pension. Women who are mothers have to reconcile a demanding and precarious working life with the care of our daughters and children, because the labour market is organized in such a way that it requires women workers to operate in employment as if they had no other responsibility. And, at the same time, society demands almost full dedication to care for women, as if they do not need a decent economic income of their own to survive and be autonomous. Women who are daughters of sick or dependent older parents or mothers must reconcile their last stage in the labour market with the care of their families, of their elderly relatives. There are also women residential workers or home help services, who are employed in a historically invisible and unvalued sector and mostly outsourced and privatized. And women domestic workers, one of the weakest links when we talk about care and that so much debate has brought us into this House. It is not by chance that the feminized sectors have less symbolic recognition in the labour market, but also less material recognition. Wages are lower and working conditions are more precarious compared to the masculinized sectors. We cannot talk about ending the wage gap, with the glass roof, with the sticky floor, and we cannot talk about achieving equality without mentioning how we are going to change our way of organizing care, because the current social and economic organization leaves aside the well-being of people and the common good, because it promotes and supports an invisible, unrecognized and unvalued work. The economic value of unpaid care work carried out worldwide by women aged 15 and over amounts to at least $10.8 trillion per year, a figure that triples the size of the global technology industry. This is a text that was recently published from Oxfam Intermon in the report The Care Work and the Global Crisis of Inequality And in Euskadi we have trends similar to the data offered by Oxfam's report worldwide, and that is why we must continue to work. Short, medium and long-range measures are needed that seek to give concrete answers to immediate needs and that also seek deeper, deeper changes, so as not to be eternally putting patches on an issue as important as the well-being of people. We cannot play in any way with such an important issue in society. From Elkarrekin We can, we have brought measures, proposals, and we have tried to find solutions through various initiatives, and we have also put on the table concrete measures for the short, medium and long term through the amendment we tabled today in this debate. We propose that we comply with the agreement reached in plenary on care, a more egalitarian society and the tools to put lives at the centre, and that the Basque Government carry out the campaigns to recognize and make visible and, of course, to value care and its contribution to the development of Euskadi. This Parliament also has another task: we have to publicly recognize care as a common good indispensable for the maintenance of life, to recognize the centrality of household work and care and the absolutely essential role of women domestic workers and their contribution to social and economic development, as well as to the well-being of the people in Euskadi. And we propose, once again, that the Basque Government make regulatory and management changes in all its areas of competence and influence, especially in those relating to the recruitment and outsourcing of services, by adopting measures aimed at eliminating the wage gap between women and men and at ensuring in its areas of competence equal working conditions for women in jobs comparable to those performed by men, allocating – because this is important – the corresponding funding. What we cannot do is to have spirits, intentions – very good – but then not to provide sufficient resources to implement concrete measures that respond to a need that we agree is incipient and that it is important to resolve. It is also important for women domestic workers to be included in the Strategy and Operational Plan of Action to narrow the wage gap, and, to that end, we believe that the participation and contributions of the associations of women domestic workers, social and economic actors and experts and the feminist movement must be ensured. And finally, one of the last points that we included in our amendment was to remember that from our group we will be vigilant, and this institution must be vigilant so that the Basque Government can implement, within the agreed deadlines and in the agreed terms, the Elkarrekin Zaintzen plan, included in the 2020 budget agreement, which democratizes care in Euskadi and speaks of another way of organizing social care from a transformative, cross-cutting and co-responsible point of view between the State, the market, families and civil society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u57	Thank you, Mrs. President. Again. Good morning, chiefs of departments, congressmen. Now we are again speaking of the question of the question of care in the legislature, which is the first time when it is about the care of submission. And at the last moment, in that debate on the order on the housing centres, we've got to say that we've asked the Basque Mitch to renew that decree. Today, in front of the motion proposed, we've made a big deal, but it won't be unanimous. And I think we've come to a good deal, a big deal, straight. And besides, in this agreement, this is the most important thing for us, we've put down specific duties to the Basque Mitch. We hope that these duties will be fulfilled as soon as possible. And the Popular Party, on that line, will follow the right course. As I said, we are once again dealing with the issue of care in this Parliament, the issue of care for dependence. And the last time, a text was adopted concerning the debate on the decree of residential centres in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country; rather, two paragraphs of the amendment of the whole of the People's Group were adopted calling on the Basque Government to revise that decree. We, at that time, defended in this rostrum that we understood that the decree lacked many important issues, and, above all, we understood that the decree was late. – in this House we had urged this government to forward this decree repeatedly – and that, moreover, it had to be adapted to the current situation of residential centres, to the different types of residential centres, and also to the need for the time needed to adequately care for our elderly people. But, above all, at that time, we said that the Basque Government had not done its duty properly on this issue, since they themselves had ignored some of the indications that had been contained in some of the reports that they themselves had requested. That is why it seems to me appropriate, in presenting several points to the motion put forward by Euskal Herria Bildu, to recover this agreement and to urge the Basque Government, as it is a recent contribution, to implement the revision of this agreement. It is one of the points; there is more, to which I will no doubt refer later. For us this subject is very important, and we believe that the institutions ought to take the measures proper to prevent it, and especially to give proper attention to it. The issue of care, for this group, for the People's Group, is an important one, especially taking into account also – and this Member has repeated it in this rostrum on several occasions – that it is a clearly feminized sector; that there is undoubtedly a need to take steps in the social recognition of the work that we mainly do for women, because it is mainly women who are engaged in care work; that, without a doubt, we must focus on issues such as co-responsibility, the division of tasks in the family home and all the issues that also have to do with the care of dependent persons. There is no doubt that an issue that needs to be remedied is also the business sphere, and, of course, the Basque Government also has to arbitrate the necessary measures to enable companies to arbitrate the necessary mechanisms to facilitate conciliation measures. When we talk about care, we talk about care provided by professional people, but we also talk about such care that they provide, that they give people who are not professional and, as such, do not often receive remuneration for such work. It is the care that takes place in the family environment, in the emotional environment. And it should be noted that such care is also very important. Sometimes they are done by people who may be professionals, but others are not professional people. And, therefore, we do understand that this specific area of care – the care that takes place in the family environment – must have a preference for the action of any government and, in this case, of the Basque Government, since it is also the family environment, in the home itself, where the majority of dependent people consider and have the desire to be cared for. I therefore believe that these quality care must be guaranteed in the family environment, in the professional care environment. And I also believe that this issue should undoubtedly be on the agenda of any government and, in particular, on the agenda of the Basque Government, bearing in mind that Basque society is one of the most ageing societies compared not only with the rest of Spain, but with the rest of the countries of the European Union; and also taking into account the impact that an ageing society has, the ageing of our population, in the social system and in the health system, on the demand for action in these two areas. We have more and more patients with more diseases; we have more and more chronic patients, even some with various pathologies, which is called'multipathological diseases'. And these patients, these patients need care in the health field, but also in the social sphere, which is what is known as the socio-health field. Well, nsostros... And I have to thank the people who support the government, because their disibilities have finally been exposed to this arrangement, and because it was easy to get it. I, in this case, am at last sorry that Podemos and EH should not be in this treaty, but they have their reasons, and I mean to respect them. But, well, I'd like... in this case we had an opportunity to make the agreement unanimous. As I said, I am pleased because, well, all the proposals we put forward by the Group of the European People's Party in this agreement have been taken up from the beginning to the end. We were talking about implementing the motion I mentioned earlier, concerning Decree 126/2019 on residential centres for the elderly within the Community. We also call for compliance with a proposal for a law on the submission by Emakunde of a comprehensive plan of action to analyse the situation and dignify the living conditions of Basque women pensioners. This agreement was also unanimous; we all support it in that debate. And, on the other hand, it seems important to us... Since the adviser, in her response to the inquiry that preceded this motion, referred to a strategy of non-professional caregivers, we understand that such a strategy must be developed and referred to the House as soon as possible. Obviously, we're in the dark about when the legislature will end. But, in any case, I believe that this Government cannot stand still, that this is an absolutely priority issue; it is a commitment of the Government, and we therefore call on one of these points to refer this strategy as soon as possible. Well, I will finish now, but I want to say that this is certainly one more step for us and, obviously, at the end of the parliamentary term, one important step in favour of the care sector, in favour of quality care being provided. And, above all, we place duties on the Government to arbitrate, promote and implement such measures as are necessary to ensure that quality care is provided in our Autonomous Community. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u58	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u59	Yes, thank you, President. We are going to discuss the area of care again today. And, of course, we'll be delighted whenever it takes. But this is not the first time we have discussed the area of care within this legislature. Recently, on 14 November last year, we discussed a PNL presented by the Elkarrekin Podemos group, concerning the plan of clash against job insecurity in the care sector; on 31 October last year, a motion by Elkarrekin Podemos concerning improvements in the living conditions of Basque citizens, where the amendment to the whole presented by the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups was approved; and, a few days before, on 24 October 2019, a motion by EH Bildu concerning the Decree 126/2019 of residential centres for older persons in the Basque Autonomous Community. In all these debates, what all the parliamentary groups in this House agree on is the importance of care in the development of our society. But such care still largely falls on women, so it is important to continue to make progress in the co-responsibility of the couple, and it is also necessary to have an institutional support structure that can be used by the citizen in case of need. We must ensure, through effective public policies, that women do not have to give up their professional careers because of the limitations that result from having to cope with the necessary care in the family with regard to children, older persons, dependents, etc.; and, in addition, that a dependent person can choose whether he or she prefers to stay in his or her usual environment with informal support or prefers another option. To this end, care support programmes must be strengthened, ensuring the quality of care. That is why, throughout this parliamentary term and by the Basque Government, aware of the importance of this in our society, numerous measures have been taken to promote work and family reconciliation, as agreed in the government agreement signed between the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group at the beginning of the parliamentary term. Among these measures is that of collecting, within the VII Plan of Equality of Women and Men, this need for attention to care; it refers to this. The Basque Government approved the Strategy and Operational Plan to reduce the wage gap in Euskadi at the Governing Council on 27 November 2018, and is having important results. We have also had the Family Support Plan, and these measures include the adoption of a 16-week leave for both parents. And soon the strategy for caregivers will be presented, within the deadline, within this year, following a participatory process with people in the sector to give a transformative approach to care. And measures have been taken to combat the wage gap, but previous initiatives have not recognized the value of this Operational Plan to narrow the wage gap, initiated at the end of 2018. And a new plan has been requested several times despite the good results that are being achieved. And this initiative again calls for sub-plans to be carried out within the overall plan for certain sectors. All the measures taken aim to strengthen institutional professional care without losing non-professional care. In the current initiative, the proposing group requests the revision of Decree 126/2019, as agreed in the motion of 28 October last year. And, both in our amendment to the whole, tabled in principle and in the compromise amendment, we were, of course, unable to agree otherwise to implement that agreement adopted that day. It also requests the proposer, in the second point, to comply with the October 2018 proposal for a law on the submission by Emakunde of a comprehensive plan of action to analyse the situation and to dignify the living conditions of women pensioners. We also agreed with that; both in the amendment to the whole presented by us and in the compromise amendment that we have signed, we are also on that line. But all of a sudden, what surprises me is that within the original initiative we are inventing the creation of a significant compensation fund for women who have worked in the care sector for years. Men, compensation funds are usually created as compensation payments; for example, for victims of sickness damage caused by exposure to work risk. But in this case, it is assumed that what is intended – it is supposed, because it says nothing, it does not explain anything – is to compensate women who have worked in the care sector for remuneration; that is, without clarifying what is intended, how, why, or what amounts they want. Nothing at all. A previous initiative called for the retroactive payment of social security contributions to persons who have provided services as employees of the household in excess of the amounts specified in the current legislation. And, on this occasion, what is being done is to ask for financial compensation – that is, by the Basque Government – with retroactive effects too, from women who have devoted themselves to care. And the initiative has no logic. In the third point mix, in order to be included in the Operational Plan to reduce the wage gap, persons employed in the household and workers in residences or care. In our view, the plan already includes any activity that may be affected by this wage gap; there is no need to collect within it subsectors, because that plan is directed and focused on reaching all sectors that may be affected by this wage gap. What surprises me at first... When we started trying to reach agreement on the compromise amendment – there was some proposal on our part to carry out that amendment – I was surprised that the proposing group, from the outset, sent us all an e-mail saying "I am not going to try to make any compromise amendment, because, given the amendments of all, I see no approach". Man, I think there were possibilities and lots of meeting points. What I think was not very intended; given the first e-mail sent, there was no intention of reaching any kind of agreement with any other political party. We have tried, and we have, and we have done so, and we have done so with the People's Group. I am surprised that, for example, the Elkarrekin Group We may not have joined that compromise amendment, because, for example, the first point that we included coincided with what you were including, and we added it because it seemed good to add it. Although you did not sign that compromise amendment, it seemed good to us, and we said, "Well, let's put it in, because we think it is quite positive and complete what we have collected." And then, then, the defense they make that as soon as possible the Elkarrekin Zaintzen plan is carried out, therefore, man, logically, is included in the budget agreement. I have no doubt that it will, of course, take place within the time limits laid down and as agreed. That's why I'm also surprised that they haven't joined, because, although that wasn't collected, that, logically, I think it's taken for granted. And I believe that this reference is included in our amendment, because the limbs we have, the ones we have, I believe are sufficient. And, in addition, we are about to come up with the caregiver strategy, and within our compromise amendment it was collected in quite detail, in a rather broad way, what we wanted to collect within that caregiver strategy. That is why we will logically support the compromise amendment that we have signed between the Basque Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group and the People's Group. And I am grateful for the Group of the European People's Party's effort to reach the compromise that we have reached today, and I feel that the Elkarrekin Group may not have joined in, coinciding with the compromise amendment with what you have proposed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u60	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all of you. We're aware that the records of Angelo and the records say that Euskakia is an old society. Our country has been witness for many years of a progressive increase of population, as well as because the rate of birth has been lowered, even because the hope of survival has gone up. This phenomenon, and its consequent management, require the exercise and care of institutions and of the society of Essupal. According to our data, 10 years later, half of the euscal society will be more than 55 years old, and 10% of it will be symmetrical, 200 people will be outnumbered by $80 years, and, in principle, not a Relebo geneinal. This visibly explains the subject which we now have in hand: Watching will be a key to future society from now on. Today, in the Euskal Autonomia Er member, 217, 171 people are working on watch jobs, from which 80% work at home, that is, not professionally, and from these are 70% women. This leads us to reality, to a paradigma change. We need to value the institutions' recognition of the social value of care. We agree with what Elkarrekin Podemos' amendment contained, and we have also moved it into our transactional, when he says that in order to move towards an equality-based society, it is essential to make care tasks visible, inter alia, to reflect on both the care and the roles or functions assigned to men and women among citizens. If you had that in mind, the Euskon and the Podemos agreed to the budget as mentioned in December, it took another step forward to work for people in the guard-house: The plan of waiting together has been mentioned by Mrs. García, co-ordinated by the President's help. This is the arrangement which shows itself in the following manner: "First, to design and start a plan co-ordinately co-ordinately co-ordinated by the Election, in accordance with the strategy of assisting the guards, in order to inflame the whole society, by means of all departments, sectors, social and economic agents, to promote the democratization of care, in order to arrange it in a different manner from the state, the market, family, and civil society." That's the purpose of the first quarter of 2020. We are now here, and we are aware that they are in it, and that the model of attention will be examined, with the comparative examination of the care-making of the present situation, of the influence of the fairest of our present care, and, strictly speaking, of the constabilation, and of the measures to be established in the future. That is why we urge the Basque Government, through the caregiver strategy, to promote a new paradigm with which to respond to a new generation of caregivers, men and women, willing to care but with support, strengthening formal support, breathing and support services for caregivers, and promoting the involvement of men in care. We stress that this strategy must be guided by the following principles: it must be comprehensive and multidimensional, and it must have an interinstitutional and interdepartmental perspective. In turn, it must incorporate an innovative approach, including the caregiver himself as a subject of law. It must also be aimed at the democratization of care, with a gender perspective that serves to correct existing inequalities – we saw in the data above – because it is a totally feminized sector. Finally, it must be preventive and must be drawn up from a Community approach. We believe this strategy has the main purpose of protecting people in the custody work, so we consider this strategy as important as the whole. At the same time, the Decret on the Homes of the Old Worlds of Euskal Autonomy was asked for a review of the Decree of the Tensters. In our middle course, the execution of this motion is required, and we wish to make it clear, that this motion is required, and that we demand it to be fulfilled. And we're aware that the agreement of the Euscal Autonomy budgets in the Er co-residents of the Esquires will be an agreement to prepare and renew this decree. Besides, as we have already said, as a feminized field, we demand also the collaboration of the Giver, which is agreed upon in this Parliament, in the execution of the proposition of 9/2018 Laws. In conclusion, and in short, we believe that we establish the foundations of steps to be given in the field by this media, and that we ask the Basque Mitch to continue working in a transfer of paradigms, placing people in the centre of the watch, and supporting their protection. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Housemaid, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u63	Yes, thank you. And good noon, all of you, because I wanted to start poetry directly, and I didn't say hello to you. So good noon to all. Hasiko naiz Elkarrekin Podemoekin. Haiek egindako proposesmenarekin, orokorrean, teens ginela esan nion García anderari berri. Bereziki, garrantzitsutzat jotzen dugu hirugarren puntu hori. It seems to us to be an essential contribution to the debate we are having today, especially that third point. Then, it seems to me that the others are, well, continue to impact on some issues that we also believe to be important. But, as she said, since Euskal Herria Bildu, we do not see ourselves in the mood for not having, for starters, information about what "Elkarrekin Zaintzen" means; we cannot support a plan that we do not know, that we do not know what kind of proposal it means. So, well, once the text, that the proposal is on the table, of course, any debate on this will always be welcome, and we can contribute something about that. Then, for that reason, we would ask for the point vote, in order to be able to support all points except the latter. Lady Garrido... I'm going to answer Sánchez and the ladies of Ipiñazars a little. It is true that we saw from the beginning that there were many resemblances in the amendments at the time of the introduction of corrections; especially because the first two points which we also contained were received. It is true that we saw in our case the accuracy of them, because they have already been able to develop for some time, and that these steps have not been seen, so to speak, we tried to identify them in these two points. And, therefore, we agree with these two points, and the first point which you have added to the bells. In what sense and point of view these campaigns are made, I think we have a discussion there, don't we? And I think that's repeated again today too. And, above all, I would tie the point at the end of the transaction, where I would point out or give the preference to it. I'm not going to tell you that you understand that you have to work only with persons or professionals, and I know it's not. But it's true that at this moment the main initiative we see is starting from that direction. And for us, it's a mistake. It's a mistake because we think we have to change our point of view in what we're talking about paradigm, and we have to insert a different view of the care. At first, perhaps, he wanted to explain himself too poetically, but we have to start talking about a system that takes place outside of love. Besides, on the 19th of October 2018, it's an unprofesional strategy that's announced. We, therefore, in this respect, would, if possible, demand a vote on points, because we have a disagreement with this last point. But, of course, we're counting on you. And with regard to these points, which we may have been able to have in common with the first points, and why we have seen to determine them, for example, in this integral plan, which requires your third point, Mine received the answer of the offering recently. And yet there's a diagnosis, but when there's no progress in the investigation, do we think it's time, don't we? And it is time, as I was saying, for a legislation is about to be dried up in certain dynasties, which would seem at once; then, a little later on, spinster, but we are there, aren't we? Eta Sánchez andereri, well, I didn't understand why at a time I put on the table that we didn't see, that we didn't see points where we could reach an agreement. It is that, of course, we did not see it, and it seems to me that sometimes it is necessary to be clear and not to start binding on proposals and counter-proposals when we see that the starting point is not the same. We are talking about the system in general, and here the issue of non-professional caregivers was being emphasized, above all. Pero, well, dicho esto, and we're talking about care. And perhaps I don't know, but as this may be the last word I'm going to do, I know how hard it is for many of you to get here; it's hard to leave personal life aside and to get out of this square. So, with all my heart, I hope you'll take care of yourselves and wait for me well in your heart. Take care of them, and we'll have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u65	Thank you, ma'am. Well, it is clear that, at least, there are a couple of issues and there are a couple of points on which we all agree, and I think that this is a step forward and that it is important and that it is a starting point for further work on care policies. However, we received a compromise proposal from the groups supporting the Government, and, as we replied to Mrs Ipinazar, it seemed to us that that proposal was somewhat sweet and somehow did not meet all the needs. And it is true that Mrs Sánchez said that she did not understand why we had not joined that agreement. I am also surprised that you are offering us a compromise proposal which, moreover, is the one you sign with Mrs Garrido, and I understand – and I will explain it again – that for us there are nuances, there are issues, there is an important paradigm shift and a depth of which to equip these measures, which was not reflected in the amendment. And one of the issues you were saying, Mrs. Sánchez, was that I didn't see any need... There was one point that I think was quite similar in the motion tabled by Mrs Etxebarrieta and the amendment we were proposing. In our case, it was point four, which spoke of the Basque Parliament urging the Basque Government to include women domestic workers in the Strategy and Operational Plan of Action to narrow the wage gap, with the participation of the different actors and the workers' associations. You said it wasn't necessary. I would say that it's not that..., it's true, it's also not necessary; it's that it's very necessary; it's that, moreover, it's a matter that is being claimed by the homeworkers themselves. It's just that when we're trying to draw up a plan or a series of measures to combat the pay gap, which we can't let go of... And, besides, that's very good, because you said, "it's that we saw a point from Elkarrekin We may think it was wonderful and we've integrated it." I think it's great; is that at that point you're talking about invisibility, and you're telling me that there's no need to make homeworkers visible in the plan to fight the pay gap? It's that we can't preach one thing, but then, in concrete terms, where we really have to do things, not do it, and that's the perfect example. When I was listening to her, I thought, "Well, that's fine; we all agree that we should not be invisible." But then, when it comes to signing and agreeing and taking action, you've been wondering why we need domestic workers specifically to appear within that plan. And it is not a question – I understand – that we or the opposition groups have been...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u66	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u67	"I thought since I was going to tell you to shut up. Excuse me. ... We have longed for it; it is a matter that the domestic workers are asking for. It's a matter that's there and I think we have to pick up. In addition to all that, you have spoken of Elkarrekin Zaintzen. You have read part of the compromise and agreement, and that's fine, but I wanted to stress that for us it is important that the socio-health strategy of support for caregivers, which must arrive and with which, of course, we agree, support... That is, it speaks of non-professional caregivers, and it is necessary and timely, but it does not propose a paradigm shift, and it addresses a partial scope of care, not in a complete way. Probably, within these nuances, surely within a time, we will find ourselves, because that is what we want: that we address solutions from a consensus, which certainly there is in intention. And I also appreciate your intention, because, in the way you agree, disagree or negotiate, the truth is that you have been quite respectful, and I appreciate it, because this is often not done in this House, and we also have to take care of it among ourselves. Having said that, we would also like to ask for the point vote, because there are issues of the compromise amendment put forward by the groups supporting the Government in which we agree, because they are similar. There are agreements that have already been voted on and agreed in this House, and therefore it would be an inconsistency on the part of any group to vote against something we have already agreed on. In addition, we must acknowledge the progress we have made. And from there, we also understand that we would like to ask for points both that vote and that of Mrs Etxebarrieta's motion, because there are issues, Mrs Etxebarrieta, which we share in the background, but in which it is true that we sometimes lack concreteness. You spoke of Elkarrekin Zaintzen as something I did not know and that has not been debated, and I understand his reasons. And I tell you that there are issues that you proposed in your motion that, really, well, in intent, we sometimes seemed like a toast to the sun, because we agreed, but we didn't. Therefore, I think it is a good way to continue working – this is what I say to all the spokespersons of the groups that have intervened. I think this is the way to start agreeing on things and taking action, but understanding that care must be a central, cross-cutting, transformative issue, and that we need to take really deep action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mrs Garrido mustn't speak. Basque Socialists. Mrs Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u69	Well, I'll be brief. Mrs Etxebarrieta, what I pointed out in my first speech is that, having negotiated many times with you, you are always making a lot of effort or effort to try to reach some kind of agreement. And it's just that, on this occasion, all of a sudden, before we start talking to each other, he already sent us an e-mail saying, "I'm not going to make the slightest effort." And, then, it surprises, because, then, the forms, many times, are also important. And those ways make you see that there was no intention of trying to reach any kind of agreement; perhaps, because we are close to a possible electoral process and was not interested. But I didn't see any intention of reaching an agreement. And then, we can't be... There are some points, as I pointed out in my first speech, with which we agreed; we also included them in our amendments, both in the amendment as a whole and then, in the end, in the compromise amendment that we signed with the Group of the European People's Party. But it has collected issues such as the creation of the compensation fund for all caregivers who have worked in that activity. Well, it's a toast to the sun; it's a thing that doesn't have any logic. And I have made it clear in my speech. I believe that we are in the right direction, that things have been done; that this caregiver strategy has already been announced, it has been announced recently, and, moreover, it is going to be completed soon and it is going to be presented and it is going to be implemented, and it involves and will involve a major paradigm shift for our society in this regard. I think that is the right direction, and that point is also reflected in our compromise amendment, because we thought it was particularly important. We do not care whether we vote for points, but, of course, we will support the whole of our compromise amendment, signed between the Basque Nationalist groups, Basque Socialists and the People's Group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u70	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mrs. Ipiñazar must not speak. The discussion is over, and we'll vote on the original text of Mrs. Housebar and Legrand's motion, but with the vote at points. So we vote for the first and second points. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of 28; the contrary, 45; the abstainments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u71	So, first and second points have not been accepted. Next, we vote for the third and fourth points. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 18; rivals 44. Abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u72	So the third and fourth points haven't even been accepted. After that, we're going to vote for the full line of Podemos together. We can vote. Ah! Wait, wait, stop. Wait, wait, wait. We vote again. We'll vote for the first four points. Can we vote? Yeah, we can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of 28; the contrary, 45; the abstainments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u73	So, four first points have not been accepted. Next, we vote for our fifth point. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 9; contraries, 64; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u74	So this is not the point. After that, we'll vote for the middle course correction. This one, too? Third and fourth. Wait, the third and the fourth, and the first and the second. Well, then we'll vote for the first and the second, the third and the fourth. We'll vote for the first and second points. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 56; rivals, 0; Abstations, 17th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u75	So the first and second points have been accepted. We'll vote for the third point. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 45; counters, 0; Abstations, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u76	So the third point is accepted. And finally, we vote for the fourth point. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 45; rivals, 17. Abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u77	So the fourth point is accepted. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group together, about the study and improvement of the modern school map, and adapting it to the new reality. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. This is Mr Martampinion, the representative of the Podemos group together, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u78	Good afternoon. We have the same law as we have to study and improve the day's school map and to adapt it to the new reality at this point of discussion. First of all, we know it's an initiative that we've been registered for a long time, and all these things, but unfortunately things have not changed much, at least in our opinion. And that's why we brought this discussion to this plune. As you know, the school map is a basic and fundamental tool for planning the educational offer of the Basque Country. It is a map linked to the territory and to the achievement of specific objectives, determined by law; objectives that for the Government should not be other than the development of inclusive and equitable education throughout the system and in all the villages and neighbourhoods of the country, regardless of the postal code. Between functions of the school-map, there is a difference between analysis of schools and organising geography in order to ensure that they will provide all kinds of educational services. It is a key tool for the development of public education or the continuity and consolidation of a model of two educational networks, where the one concluded in Euskadi has more and more weight than the public. The public concerta has a 50 with little, and the concerta a 49 and almost 50% of the student. For putting close figures, in Navarre, the figure for public education is 65%; in Iparralde, 70%; in Castilla-La Mancha, almost 90%. Already in the 2009 decree, the Government itself said that it was advisable to review and improve the school map in order to adapt it to the new reality and the changes planned for the coming years. And from that point on, all we've seen was improvisation: Road, Donostian, Barakalian school map, Oion, Debágon's, Bilbo, Donostian, for instance English Schol, with that new school, and Ordizia. And the government knows, and here we have discussed a lot of the social changes we have had in recent times. Yesterday we were also talking about the issue of the birth rate and the complexity of this topic; also about the arrival of new and new neighbours in our country; also about the generalization of childhood education; that the imbalance between educational needs and square offers is also increasing; or, for example, the evolution of language models; and that, in addition, this has a special impact on the organization of the training offer of public centres for the future. For example, yesterday, we had a show of the STELES union at the Board of Education, in order to recognize the frauds that occur at 0-3 and above, in the words of the Amazons, the proposals which they had to avoid and avoid. In this stage the government helps private children's schools, even though they're not compacted. And, in the same and different areas, the public schools of children which we finance with public money are almost empty or empty, the case of the Debarones is the most obvious, in this sense, i.e. And why does that happen? Because the government assures them that they have all the authority to do in the same college. And this, as was said yesterday, is a great fraud, partly a major discrimination of the public system. "Y este es su model, señores y señoras del Partionist Vasco: the palate la brecha de la excepción vasca, la excepción vasca en cuestationes curactivas. One of the countries in Europe which helps private instruction. And we'd like you to say the opposite, but the facts we can find in some of the issues that are done here and in other ways, and the budgets and the government's data. Adibidez, Save The Children-ek, PISAri buruzko 2018ko ikerketa horri buruzko analyze, esaten zuen: "School socio-economic segregation continues to increase in Euskadi more than 4%, as it has been doing since 2012. Meanwhile, at the state level, it is reduced. And this rate of socio-economic segregation is the second highest in the state." Although it is true that we have a lower repetition rate than the State, the repetition of courses in Euskadi is socially very unfair: at the same performance, the poor student repeats five times as much as that of more resources. And this is a situation that has been getting worse since 2015. Or, for example, the difference in mathematics between immigrant and native students: it has grown since 2015, and is the highest in Spain and the third largest in the OECD. We could talk about more data and statistics, but today I'm not going to do it. Azken finan, eztabaida honen atzean dagoena da it gizratearen dibertsitateak hezkuntza-system osoan island daukan ala ez. Eta, ore, ez danka. The bottom line is whether we assume that the Basque public school is the axis of our education system or is the poor sister within the education system. And we have very good public schools in Basque. We have a very good public education system in Basque. But I will now use a term which Mr. Do private schools and public schools compete under the same circumstances? No. And I think that's the moral failure of your system, that competitive education. Mechantilization of education, which, I think, is the principal moral failure of the educational system of today. All we see in our streets these days is the struggle between schools as if they were supermarkets. We see that in our streets. Because, surely – yesterday we were talking about it – there is much room for agreement on many educational issues. But, at the moment, we are attending a competition between schools to attract families, as if they were offers and supermarket balances, with an added: that, as it happens on the market – and that supposed invisible hand that does not exist – there is also unfair competition, but in favour of the concerted; and that black invisible hand that, as I say, in the market does not exist, that invisible black hand is very visible. And it is the hand of the government of the Basque Nationalist Party, encouraging the concerted network. That is the great disloyal competition in education right now. He said that, surely, at one of the points there could be agreement. Sure. And we reached agreements in education; yesterday we made some joke about the agreement we had about French teachership, but we had more than we thought. But there are fundamental reasons that separate us, and one of them is the sacrosanct freedom of choice of families when choosing a center. I need you to explain to me what freedom that is for working families, for example, in the neighborhood of Miribilla in Bilbao when choosing a center. I need someone to explain it to me, because, for the time being, in the 33 years I have, no one has convinced me that there are equal opportunities when choosing a centre in Euskadi, if we meet rent criteria. Will you explain Porque how they can pay, for example, quotas, illegal quotas, fees collected in private schools that belong to that neighborhood? And in other neighborhoods. That's just an example. And it is a great lie this issue of equal opportunities when it comes to accessing teaching; that does not work badly for them, that does not work badly for them, unfortunately, but it is a great lie, after all. Horrexegatik ari gazza legegintzaldi honetan hainbat ekimen aurkezten, egora honori buelta emateko, edo, behintzat, arintzeko. Eta gaurko ekimena hori zen. Ezin diogus egora horri buelta eman ekimen batakin, bath, behintzat, pixka bat arindu. Horrexegatik pentsatzen dugu that we must redesign this school map once and for all, which we have set many examples today and throughout these years in the Education Commission; that it is a map that has to be adapted to the new reality; that it was already said, as the decree of the Government itself said before, in 2009; that it has to plan the educational offer, so that there is no application for registration of public education without attending; that the school areas with offer from the age of zero until the studies of Baccalillerato, including also the training cycles; and that public education is placed on the axis of the education system. We think that this process should be directed and arranged with the teachers of education, both in the council and in the circus and with the agents and the others. We need agreement in that sense. We believe that special attention should be paid to the redesign of areas with low values in ISEC and also in language; that is, positive discrimination, positive discrimination. We need to give more to those who have less to achieve the results achieved by those who have more; not in part, but by redesigning the school map throughout our territory. And, as I was saying, things that produce lyrical patterns, because we can clearly see that the public school is the principal system that resists. Dos de cadares alumnos que se eescaledia estecdi en el system pliblico. I believe that the last point we are going to talk about is fundamental to understanding the will and why we have not reached agreement on this, on this point and in these years in the Committee on Education. Honekin ez dugu negociatzen; we do not negotiate anything with this. It is a very clear, very clear point, and I believe that everyone will understand that in these educational debates we sometimes get lost between decrees, orders and other stories. Do not arrange any new classrooms in areas where there are sufficient public places to meet demand. If we are not able the five parliamentary groups to sign this, it is that there are certainly dubious commitments to the development of public education. My group proposes – we have also signed it with Euskal Herria Bildu – that no new classroom be concluded in areas where there are sufficient public places to meet the demand, as happens in many areas of our country and as happens – and is bursting into the hands of the government – in Ordizia, to set just one example. Bukatzeko, badirudi legegintzaldiaren bukaeran gaudela –ez dakigu gaur, bihar, Hurrengo esten...–. It takes the solemn form of batan esan dezakegu Gobernu Honek, hezkuntza-arloan, ez duel kurtsoa gainitu. We have had strikes at the conclusion, public mobilizations, lack of agreement, lack of development of agreements with public unions. The famous Education Act has not been introduced, and if it is presented in the days or weeks that we have left, it will be a totally failed presentation. They threw an ILP, a popular legislative initiative, into the trash. I repeat my words from that debate, saying that these measures were to be included in the Education Act; therefore, a lost legislature in this area. And the most serious thing is that there is no trust between the partners who have in the public system, with the trade unions or with the different associations that work in public education. And I don't know if I'm going to stay here or not, but I really hope you change the leadership that's been on our education system so far. I hope so. I think it would be good news for our country. Our people, our public education system, need people who believe in it, in that public education system at the front. To the extent of our possibilities, today, tomorrow, in the elections, after, and within 4, 8 and 12 years, we will continue to contribute to the development of public education. Because, using the contribution of a great intellectual, of a person who has just left us, José Luis Cuerda, and turning it around a little bit, in education almost everyone is contingent, but only public education is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u79	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u80	Good morning. First of all, I want to thank Durgu as much as possible for the discussion of the school map to-day, at least there is something, after we have thrown the other proposal as we do, back on the table and shut it up for discussion. So, although our original proposition is not ours, we have succeeded in bringing it to a discussion. For us, the discussion is urgent, it is urgent. I agree with what Mr Martínez said: there is one of the keys. For it seems as if the new law of education will solve the problem, or, in the name of the new supposed law, it is to be avoided. For at the present moment, in the name of this imaginary law, the pristine example is being stabilized, because the students and families who are most needed leave it aside, deeps it into the standard that leads us back to equity, and in the results of which we maintain the steps of 2009, the other diagnostic evaluation in the past is simply seen. We do not know whether all these decisions are conscious, or whether the Government is carried on this direction by inertia. But seeing the policies which this government has in other areas, and which increase the social ice, the welfare is directed to certain social and economic gradations, there is a sense of education, education, social education, and specific economics; and the rest of the world to condemn the labor to be cheap, is not it? To strengthen the educational system for that. What does that mean? Well, that means weakening the public school that is guaranteed to the equality of possibilities. That's what it means not to have the equalizer function to be fulfilled by education, which leads to the study of society, to penetrate into the segregation. That's why, as I said yesterday, education has sunk into market parameters, and the frame of these parameters holds school maps. The Matriculation system enables non-fillance of license rules and prevent execution. People become empty objects in opposition to enpresions. It places education in the direction of the offerr, the nets becoming a business, in vain, and forgetting that education is nothing but an instrument for education, young people, families, children, and not corporations; that the end is a prepared and cohesion of society, and that education is nothing but an instrument. It is, therefore, a system of education, which only penetrates into mean results, a system which penetrates on the shores of society, and penetrates into degrees, at different speeds. And, therefore, this organization is the time to reorganize. All the indicators tell us that we have to rethink. We're late. We're all losers in the end. Look, we got here at the last gnognostic period when you're done, because soon there's a show coming, it's picked up by the autonomy Estalka and Leon, Catalonia, Errands of Madrid and Naharro. As for international education systems, the Euska Autonomia Estribe has worse results than the most advanced education system in the world. He says, too, that he's slowing down the rhythm of joining eucalyptus. He says it, too, a high surrender... that is to say, that in the excellence of excellence there are fewer disciples in perfection, and that in a low surrender there are more and more disciples. The last evaluation made by ISEI-IVEI is seen as a diagnosis that we are on the steps of 2009. Savee the Childen says we have the highest degree of Spanish segregation, the highest concentration of students in low social profile is EAE. Since 2012 to 2019, the segregation is 9,7% increased EAE, and the development up until then has been broken. And to rest. What are we gonna say about what's happening around the Euskarian? It doesn't matter what grid school it is, it's always bad results. And I agree that it's not only a question of school with you, but there's something going to be done at school, is there? Because the times have changed, and the treatment must be altered. So it doesn't matter what company school it is, it doesn't matter what company it is, it doesn't work. Every one is doing what he can, some of the networks with more control, others with more autonomy, but they are all financed with the public money, although they are different rights and duties. And, apart from academic results and equity, if we look at the development of demography, we examine, according to the last edition of the Eustatata, the Estave2019, the descent of birth has been a permanent descent from 2018. I said it yesterday. We're in 1996. Forty-eight percent has been down for the last two years. We have, therefore, certain indications to begin round the situation, if we have a popular opinion. We want to see our country again in the first grade. We want to be realistic in education, but not in the state, we want to be realistic in Europe. And I think we have very good ingredients for that. We're a multiple education unit on a long track. We also have public money, if we succeed in using it properly. I'd say we're a highly creative country, even if we're a bit clausist, but at the same time we're solsalisous. Who's got no contradictions? We all have contradictions. And we, too, as a people, have contradictions. Why don't you start looking at all this, redefinating the school map? It's about time. It's true we've done a few little things, but we have a school map that answers to an old society. And you have to plan it. We need a good planning, to place the weakest in the first line, to strengthen the schools at a disadvantage, without offering new treaties, while there are free apprentices in the same grade as the public schools of that area. This is efficacy, this is good management, this is efficiency. And good management isn't what's happening today. School maps must respond to unordical ones. And at the moment, he has to go to the public school, because the balance is there. And the school map has to answer that. So let's go round, plan, answer new times, re-establish our education system, together with the public system of schools which have the same rights, duties, and conditions; with autonomy, out of the mad wheel of the bureaucracy; the organization of the educational system, to serve the students, and to sharpen the descant for the better purpose of the student. Don't you think that in the past years education system has been moved to bureaucratic science management systems and to empty Pacific justifications? And it has been forgotten what the function of education is? Don't you think? Look what's happening. In the end, the schools and teachers are plunging into nothing, instead of being companions, instead of securing the welfare of the students, and instead of satisfying their wants. And we need that to be able to guarantee a really quality education and get good results. For education has a function to fulfil, and we must establish conditions and enable them to restore education to its functions. We're in time, because it's never too late, even though we're late. But this demands a decision, a bold and agreed resolution, a generous resolution, a man who begs to act with them by generosity, charity, and the common order of education. And I don't know if the Urkullu government is ready for that. So far, at least, he hasn't shown much will. And we know the way is not easy, but there's no other way to take the steep road. For we shall all win; of course we must all leave something in the way, but we shall all win in this matter, in order that the work of education may be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u82	The proponent said that this is a proposal for 2018; it is true, but it is a proposal for 2018 that, although it has not been discussed so far, these issues have been discussed and debated and debated. We have heard things here that I believe we all agree with, but there are others that we cannot agree with. Now, unlike the proponent, who divides the world between good and bad, and... "How come the five groups don't sign this? If they don't sign, there are hidden interests." You said it, huh? We don't want that. The world is not divided between good and bad, between me or against me; the world is made up of human beings who try to reach agreements. So, let's see, I'm going to go point by point from what you said. You talk about redesigning the school map so that public education is at the centre of the education system. Look, they'll be words, but words are important. The axis of the education system must be students; that must be the axis, and we firmly believe in that. And then, many times the problem is that we get mixed up in words. So, I'm going to say something that can crash, but you do an antagonism between the public and the concerted, and then you say there's 0.8% private. You have to tell me what they are, because I haven't found them in Euskadi. He says there's 0.8% private. No, I don't know what they are. Of course, in Gipuzkoa there is none. But let's go to this. I'll tell you something. Do you know what I'm saying? That the concerted school is also public. They are the new way to look at it, is to change its name, but how is it not going to be the public concerted school if the Interior Department sets all the rules, all the rules – the number of students, the class hours –, supervises, controls it, and even pays teachers? That is to say, it will forgive me, but the concerted school is also public school, under the absolute control of the public, except that it is discriminated against; that it is discriminated against, because the Department of Education considers that a child in the public costs 7 thousand euros and peaks per year, and in the concerted it costs 5 thousand euros and peaks. So the two are public; what happens is that one is discriminated against against the other. That's what we think. Let's see, what do you say next? Areas with lower values, indicators... and linguistics. If we agree! Look, you present yourself as the adalid of the public school, which I have already told you that the concerta is also public. But let's accept octopus as a pet, of what you call public, and present yourself as the adalid your group. Pardon me, we are all adalides of the public, and, of course, you are not going to be more public defender than we are; you are not going to be. The problem is that you, so layer of being adalids of the public, are looking for the extermination of the concerted. Of course, the question here is not who is with the public, because the answer is unanimous: we are all with the public. The question is who wants to exterminate the concerted. And besides, look, I'm going to tell you: you take refuge in ghosts of the past that are amazing, and, in my opinion, you are doing a weak favor to what you call exclusively public school. They present it as victimized, they present it as marginalized, they present it as discriminated against, and then, in reality, they are lowering their value. Look, there's everything in public school – I'll tell you... a little less of everything, as well as in the concerted public – but in the public school there is everything. I can tell you: I know journalists, I know engineers, I know doctors, I know all kinds of middle class and, some, even, with remarkable purchasing power, because they work, they are middle class the two members of the couple and they work, and they are homes where they can be entering four thousand, four thousand and peak euros a month and that take their children to the public. So please stop denigrating the public school by putting it as if it were a horrible, miserable place. No, what there are are centers – and I agree with that, I would agree with anyone who raised it – that they need a lot of help, especially on infrastructure issues, on infrastructure issues, and already, at the general level, on faculty issues, because I want to remind you that yesterday we hear as a public school that is making a tremendous effort, it turns out that next year 90% of the faculty is going to be new. That's a problem. But don't describe public school to me as the worst of all, because there's everything. And, look, I'm going to give you an example. You told us Castile and Leon (sic), and you told us that 90% of Castile and Leon attend public school. And it has wonderful results. The problem of public school is quality, quality, and that is what we have to pursue. But for quality they need a radical improvement in infrastructure, and they need these years so bad for teachers – because there are so many retirements, for many reasons – to happen as soon as possible. And I am going to give this plenary a piece of information that we were given in a previous committee but which I believe should be the knowledge of all the Members of Parliament, who have put my hair at the top of my head. Do you know that for every three teachers below 50, there are 17 teachers above 50? Look at what a human future we have: three teachers below 50 – who can be perfectly around 40 – by 17 over 50. All that has to be fixed, and you're going to have us by your side to fix it. But, of course, what you can't do is divide the world between bad and good. And I'm going to tell you, where does the concerta come from? Well, I don't know, but this country has traditions, has long-honored traditions. And one tradition has been that people wanted their children to be formed from a perspective of humanist Christianity. Why not? We also have a very strong tradition in the 1970s of considering that Basque was a tool that had to work and that was one of the most important things in education. Why not? Well, we have the ikastolas. There are also other groups of people who honor a very long tradition of this country, who decide to self-organize. Where did the cooperatives come from here, if not? Well, of a spirit that is deeply rooted in the country: that of self-organization. And they decided to self-organize schools in the form of cooperatives. Why not? Why not? That is what gives our society plurality. Look, I think sometimes... For me, does the opposite of discrimination know what it is? The opposite of discrimination is equality in rights and obligations, and freedom to choose within the possibilities offered by law. Because those who cannot choose within the possibilities are discriminated against, and those who do not have the same rights as others are discriminated against. But I believe that for you the opposite of discrimination is uniformity, it is uniformity. And, having heard the proposer at the previous point, Mrs Etxebarrieta, who has been so poetic – I liked her first intervention very much – I also thought of a similitude. I think you understand that the opposite of discrimination is a uniformity where we are all sheep that we need guardian dogs around biting our ankles, under a kind of prophet that no one knows who is and no one knows who has chosen him, that tells us when to eat, where to go, how to do. That's the figure that came to me listening to Mrs Etxebarrieta. It's not that I'm poetic like hers, is it? So, please, let us respect the plurality of the country, let us respect the traditions of the country, and let us turn, let us turn to the shortcomings that have – and quite – the educational system. And, above all, they have more, and, above all, many public schools are more directly responsible to the Department of Education. Not all of them; there are some fantastic ones that work very well. And let's try to raise the quality level. Anyway, I have more stuff, but it'll be for the second round.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u83	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u84	Good morning. Today we are discussing a non-legislative proposal by the parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos, concerning the revision and improvement of the current school map and its adaptation to the new reality. And, as Mr Martínez has put it, it seems to him a truncated discussion, fundamental and essential for the future of education. That is why it draws so much attention that it has been in a drawer since 2018, without having had the opportunity, in these almost two years, to bring this issue, so absolutely transcendental, very important and crucial for Basque education, to discussion in this Parliament. But, anyway, I don't criticise it; I just point it out. And, indeed, the school map is the basic instrument to carry out the planning of all the existing educational offer, in a rigorous and detailed way, taking care of the three Basque territories and their municipalities, to ensure a complete and continuous educational offer; continued, above all, taking into account, on the one hand, the linguistic model, which is mainly given between compulsory secondary education and the baccalaureate – in addition, this has been a matter of debate already in some municipalities, as in Barakaldo – and, on the other, also taking into account certain inputs, such as demographic, geographical, social, cultural... Ultimately, we are talking about planning and planning for a thorough analysis of the situation, and that this full offer guarantee in each territory is real. We Socialists understand this and it must be. The school map has to conform to the existing reality, and it is true that it is not doing so at the necessary speed. And we have to adapt to the changes that have taken place in our society, taking into account various factors, such as those I have mentioned, because our job must be to meet the educational needs of the country and to ensure that educational needs are met. And we sincerely believe that the Government takes this into account, because it is within the competence of the Department of Education, which has the authority to plan. But, of course, that doesn't take away so that we have to rethink it. I believe that this objective must always be on the table, in order to adapt it to the needs and to the current reality, which, like all living realities, is changing. Because it is true that societies move forward, change – in that we all agree – and that is why every advance, every change has to go hand in hand with the update; with an adaptation, in short, to reality. Because it is a question of this: adaptation according to the social and demographic reality, guaranteeing the free choice of the educational project. This is the key to this debate: meeting the demand for enrolments, the supply of places, language models, having the public school as the backbone of the education system, which is as we have always defined and conceived it by socialists. The planning of educational supply in our society, the school map and its configuration through the mechanisms established for this are the democratic, probably the only way to manage the universal right to education in our country. And education must be ensured that equal opportunities are guaranteed, that there are no inequalities in educational institutions, and between educational institutions, neither because of income, nor because of origin, nor because of culture or sex. Our educational model does not include educational institutions that choose their students and that secrete them, although it is true that these circumstances sometimes occur, and this gives rise to inequalities and different educational speeds. A system of education that overcomes socio-economic obstacles must be promoted; that guarantees the cohesion of society, affecting even the most sectoral – such as neighbourhoods that do not remain isolated and without an educational offer –; that favours the inclusion of immigrant pupils; and that caters to pupils with special needs. We have had the opportunity of discussing all this over the years in the Committee on Education and Training. Because what is at stake is the present and future of our students, of our neighbours; the future of the country. And everyone should feel the same concern. This is a joint work, in which, of course, the competence lies with the department; but, in any case, we have to ensure a quality education system that guarantees and promotes equal opportunities. I'm gonna keep that call, almost that song, made by Mrs. Ubera to the the end of his intervention, calling for a shared effort, in which efforts must be put in place. "Obviously", mutual assignments, in order to find a common territory in which education has the stability and solvency necessary to avoid being permanently subject to political changes, as, unfortunately, has been happening in the rest of the state for many years. But, finally, Mr Martínez, we know that we are at a time when it is speculated that it is an electoral moment, and you have made an intervention that, of course, you have put into electoral code, from bringing it to this point to take it today to the intervention that you have had. Because if, really, as I said at the beginning, this was such an absolutely important and truncated issue, I did not understand why in 2018 and 2019 there was no time or opportunity to raise this debate here, did I? And I understand him, and I don't criticize him. It's legitimate. Finally, in the face of a possible electoral call, each party wants to mark its profiles. And you have chosen, in this case, to do so through education. And I mean it because it's not a ballad. That is true; it is done for that fundamental reason. It's legitimate. But you can't hide or hide, can you? And I think we have to go back to what education should be, in this case. Not just with this topic; with everyone. It is one of the fundamental elements defining the democratic quality of a country: education, the right to education. For this to be feasible, for it to be viable, for it to be truly of quality, of educational excellence, there is no alternative but to make a huge political effort to agree on the definition of the educational framework we want for Euskadi. And that means that we all have to leave some question behind and look for that common territory, which exists – I have no doubt; we firmly believe it from the Socialist Party – in order to achieve the articulation of an educational model that gives satisfaction to the real demands of society, not to the invented ones, which also exist, unfortunately; to the real demands of society. And that is the enormous work and the enormous challenge that this country has for the future, and that will really mark the democratic quality of Basques for a long time. It is true – and I recognise this – that the fact that there is a 50% distribution of networks is an anomaly with regard to our environment; not only to the rest of Spain, but to the whole of Europe, where there are countries where even 100% of education is in exclusively public hands. We don't like that reality either – I mean, Mrs. Bengoechea; I think you already know, don't you? But I also believe that this reality must be gradually and gradually changed; otherwise, it will not be possible to make the change. I think that we all have to have it in our heads. And, in fact, we have been about to sign with you a compromise amendment in which there was a very large common territory where it was shared. What's going on? That you wanted to mark a political opposition. I get it. And that made the deal impossible. But I want to remain with the other 90% that would have been perfectly possible to sign with you and some other parliamentary group as well, and that has not been possible because the political moment prevents it, because there is now a legal regulation in place that prevents you from doing what you are proposing right now. But the gradual change in this situation can be considered in order to arrive at a better situation than the existing one. I think that's the way. We're gonna bet on him. And I deeply regret – believe me – that it has not been possible to reach a broad agreement on this matter with you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u85	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u86	Thank you, Chief. And the chief of the divisions, ye members of the legislature, good noontide. Well, it is true that this initiative has to do with the registration campaigns and that tomorrow the registration deadline ends. But this initiative, as has been said, comes after having been in some freezer for two years, so I understand, especially in view of the presentation of the initiative, that this has something to do with some other kind of campaign. Our group, two years ago, clearly defined its attitude around four columns. And I'd say two years later, today, they're still right, but then I'll talk about them. I do not share that, but I can understand that you do not think it is appropriate to reach agreements with the groups supporting the Government at this time. It is legitimate, but I find it irresponsible to use arguments such as those that have once again sprung up in this rostrum to pay for the field of confrontation between educational networks. And it seems irresponsible to me to make it clear that we have an unchanging and watertight educational system, when the reality is that we live in a permanent process of adaptation and adaptation. And, as I find irresponsible, that is why I am not going to enter that game of confrontation, because our group refuses to face networks, as well as to generate confrontation within each of the educational networks, instead of promoting collaboration and cooperation. Today's conversation... Well, I understand, but listening to some of you, I feel we're not talking about the same thing for a few moments. I don't know if the concept of map is the one that creates this problem of interpretation. In fact, I can almost picture you with a pencil, a handbar, and a card-card, making lines on a map. But the school map is far beyond it, and is something else, much more complex and deeper. At least, about one thing, we seem to agree: It's a job for education administration to run a school and a training schedule. And because in this programming, the Ministry of Education, the Public Schools, and the Schools of Covenant, ought to unite the Rights of Education, and the Rights of the Disciples, as well as the best way possible. And Mr. Martínnez said that there is a great amount of unbalancedness between offer and demand in Euskádin, but he has not given any data that supports it. But I'll give you a clue. 97% of families gets the bet on the school they asked for. So there is not so much balance between the offer and the demand. In 2009, as the purpose of this program was to organize and plan the net of other schools by university, the offer of education in all classes and schools, and, in the case of it, the needs of instruction for each region, area, or town. In this rule, some fundamental principles were determined to regulate and to inspire the whole network with criteria of planning and planning. And so the rules and manner of proceeding were settled. To begin with, the school map is insisted that it is necessary to understand it as a tool to plan the offer of instruction, in the service of an education response which will always include all students. It also shows the participation of all the educators of education in the democratic planning which will be appropriate to the education of the people. And that's what there is for, among other things, school and security committees. Love is also a principle to be considered, for the sake of securing the equality of opportunity for all the students, and of entering into the system of education, and, indeed, considering the attainment of these ends, to be the indispensable or correlative of all the schools; but not only of the schools, but also of the popular institutions. Their cooperation is indispensable to supply a system of education with human resources and physical resources. With this provision of resources, the rationalization and optimism of resources is also considered as necessary, if education system is capable of obtaining its goals. And there is also a mention of flexibleness. The decree makes a special reference to the importance of its weakness, when it is to adapt and adapt the offer of education to the different social, demographic, and geography. For reality is dynamic, and the instrument which answers to reality must be dynamic. And when the proposition concerning the map of the school is resolved, the characters and peculiarities of each region and region of every historical land must be considered, as well as the areas of cities in each one of them, or the fields of the country, which are to be adapted to them all. And the realities of one and the other are not the same, nor are fixed; they are continually modified. Hence the same rule foresees the necessity of modification, adaptations, and adjustments. The directors of the schools coordinated with the local representatives of education, and designed, according to principles and criteria received in the decree, to adjust, modify, and mark the circumstances and courses which are at the moment adapted to the present wants. And the rule goes beyond, and anticipates certain factors: a demographic development of the townships, an offer of schools' plates and lessons. And, in every case, it must be objected to the organ which has jurisdiction, that the union of schools, integration, continency, interruption, division, division, division, or generation of the activity must be carried forward. And all these variables produce a dynamic map. And it is true: it is just right to give help to those who are most in need. And Mr Martínez was talking about positive discrimination, and I agree, and that's what the Board of Education is doing for the past few years. What else is the index of eleven Hands, THISPO or educationalpremies? Isn't that a positive discrimination? What, then, are they not positive measures of assisting the schools or classes which they most require? As a dynamic map, so far as the studies have advanced, the adjustments have been made, and the adaptations and adaptations of different characters have been made. And we shall all be reminded of them: New schools have been built and started, especially in the new districts created in the cities; some schools have been united; some school has been closed; some schools have changed in numbers of lines; And all these are school maps adaptations that have to be examined and done every year. So he's continually changing. That's why we agreed, and in our correction we received it: We agree with this fundamental element of original activity, that is, with the recent design of the map, constantly adapting itself to it, and at the moment adapting it to the actual reality. But with others, we can't agree in any way. For ye propose, that the Schools, which observe the conditions of the Rule, should deny Covenants; which ye intend to decide in this Assembly. And this has no foundation, no legal security, quite contrary. And you know this better than right, that is not possible by the established regulations. And the Schools that are authorized beforehand, and observe the condition and obligation received in the regulation, have a right to be Confederate. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the amendment we tabled two years ago centred on four axes, namely the guarantee of cohesion, the adaptation of the school map, equal opportunities and family law. And we understand that this amendment remains absolutely valid today. We've been trying to get a middle-way with the team, but it's not possible. Besides other smaller matters, Mr Martínez had two red lines: that the liberty of choosing which I have just mentioned should be destroyed, and that the public square should not give the treaty till it is empty. Both, or both, are unacceptable to us, because it would be contrary to what they received in the regulation. On the other hand, the Socialists and Eunciators, together with the popular groups, seem to us to have signed a good middle course. And besides, we wanted to get the exact references of a group that is not a signer in our medium, because we thought they were just. And the government is gonna make decisions, no doubt. And that's where the Urkalu government works. And even in the future, don't be sure he'll act like that, always in the centre of the students. And the whole eupscal educational system is progressed in the mind of quality, cohesion, equity, and equality of choice. But it would be quicker if the whole system did not try to set up oppositions and joints constantly, and if we were to work on a more constructive form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u87	Thank you, Mrs. News. Passing on the answering shift together Podemos. Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u88	Yes, thank you, again. Ms. Ubera, I think you know that we have some differences in education between our two teams. But, well, I think you and I have been pretty good travels these years in defense of public education. And, by the way, leaving some small things aside, I think I'll stick to it. And I agree with some things: with this view of balancing the balances, and the formation of the new model of public education. We do not say that things ought to be done in public education as they are done, that we have good things and bad things, but that we have several examples of public education. And I think, as a country, we have a unique opportunity to develop a strong, reforming, communal education. And, Mrs Bengoechea, nothing further than the speech you made was my speech. It is true that my ideal horizon, and that of my parliamentary group, is a defence of the public. And, the more development you have, if you want to speak in terms of percentage, then much better, but totally away from uniformity and telling people what to do. But to guarantee freedom of choice; not only to put it on paper, but to really guarantee it. That's what we think. And far, far away... And I repeat again in this and in another debate that, when a criticism is made of something that we think works well, works well or works a little worse, it is quite the opposite of the denigration of public education, in this case; quite the opposite. It is the same beating that the unions suffer, and it is the same beating that the associations of parents also suffer. And it's just the opposite: they're critical of building a much better public school than... I say again: I invite you to read, whenever you want, the intervention. I said he's got a lot of problems, too, of course. And we all have to get over it. And, Mr. Pastor, I was going to say that you caught me, but no, it's not true; far from electoral interests. It is true that the political opportunity to present it this week has much to do with the enrolment campaign, obviously, but far, away from those electoral interests. With the background of your speech, I think I agree. And I left it up there: we have an agreement you and I, our parliamentary groups, here in Madrid, which says quite a few interesting things for education. And my commitment – I hope – is with that fulfillment. And, in fact, if that develops, like that repeal of the LOMCE and, above all, of the most damaging aspects of the LOMCE, Mrs Bengoechea, that you represent the party that developed that legislation, then there we will have a field of play. And I hope that the next parliamentary term in Euskadi will also go along with those lines, because of that government agreement that has taken place in Madrid. And, moreover, I am referring already to the government agreement, to what is written in educational matters: that prohibition of segregation by sex, which unfortunately, even if it is a minority, is repeated in Euskadi. And Mrs. Newebert, most of the things I've said to Bengoche, I'm saying to you in the same way: Muy lejos del enfrenamientto. Muy lejos del enfrenamientto. The number of people who have passed from the Board of Education, the unions of so many different types of unions, who propose things, criticize them, and in almost every instance there was a proposition with every review. The center of the roads has already gone out. The Board of Education wanted to close the center of the roads. And the education unit in the highway has managed to keep this center open. And he's asking for help. The review and the proposal, like this initiative. Review and proposition. That's it. I'm not in the government. In the government, in the Board of Education, at this moment, the head of the Uriors is leading to carry on educational policies. And, in front of many decisions taken by the Board of Education, they've brought a lot of demands to our Board of Education: Ordizia, Barakaldo, the Family of the Fathers of the River, the Gastine Plativity, and many other things and questions. Orduan, curry exaten dut: gu, akordatzeko prest. I believe that Elkarrekin We can, if anything has proved in this legislature in education and in other matters, have been able to agree, and, in this country, much more. And, recently, for example, in Irun, in the budgetary agreements, a cross-cutting agreement from the left in Irun. Isn't that an agreement, for example? Or is it only when we agree with you? Or the Government of the State, which he quoted recently. I believe that agreement capacity, negotiation capacity, capacity to reach agreements in the field of education, yes. But what I said to you yesterday at our meeting, which is the same as I said in my first speech: we are not going to go through the fact that our votes support that, as long as there are enough public places, there will be one more classroom in Euskadi. And that's what's happened more than once in these four years. And with our vows, at least, we won't allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u89	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours. Ubera Arannet I, on the first round, hesitated. I didn't know whether the government is doing its policy or whether it's making decisions according to an inertia. And Mrs. Newsalously made it clear to me that you are making decisions. Well, I'd like to ask you to take your decisions in another direction, because you're destroying education. We're going backwards in equity, and in the results... , the results are not what they ought to be. And we have been told not to lose in words, and I will give examples of it, where the resolutions they make carry us, and what they bring. Look. An example, Durango. Durangon, the Baby Schools were in Parzier, there were seven more orders than the offer. Then Durango's council put a match into his budgets, and he had the predominance to make the play, to give an answer. You know, the demand for 18,000 rent has increased. Well, what has this government done? Other criteria were accepted, these families wanted us not to go to school, and they said: "If in three kilometre school squares are empty within three kilometres, then they must go to another place." Then families are pushed into private centers and out of town. And that's a decision. That's a decision, and that's not a decision for public school. Then the campaign for the public school. The same campaign as last year. Even in the presentation plot, last year, covered with paper. Is that a decision? That's a decision. Another one: Roadway. On the highways, you decided to close the license plate at 2017. We brought him here; we made proposals; we went there. Local education unit was here yesterday. Such were the words of commitment. They've done it. Educational department? And everything has been followed because other people have been forced to make proposals and to force you to change their decisions. Mina del Morro. Same thing. The Board of Education has decided to close it. At the expense of the weaker ones. Always leaving the weak ones behind. And those who are in a state of debasement, in a state of poverty, who may be in a state of poverty, must be invested in it, there is a strong education, there we need a strong public school, and that's where we need to help. Not really. Close them up. Close them up. And, perhaps, these schools must be closed, but the decisions must be settled, and planned as they ought, to be a really strong public school in the neighborhood, to ensure the equality of opportunity and to prevent the segregation. Another example has been just about: A cornice, a cinch, a Churdinga... It's a hell of a job. Well, you decided to remove social assistants from the RPT a couple of years ago, who work for hell and help education and do that to teachers. Well, here too we had to propose a proposal, an evaluation, a por cyto. And that's all there is to it. And I can give you more examples. And these are not words, they are data, objective data, what is happening. How many schools have we visited? How many jobs have we worked? We've done a lot of work. And we made deals, good deals. And the quality of public school is good. No one doubts that, Mrs. Bengoechea, as I said before. Unfortunately, what's happening is that in one network or the other the results are similar. Both. Look at the diagnosis, ISEI-IVEI, the high school of the Board of Education. Our education system is not healthy in one company or the other. He's not healthy. And we have to take it in hand, we have to intervent it, and we have to make other decisions, because the system we have at this moment answers to an earlier period of society. And times have changed, society has changed, and we need other answers. And that's a huge amount of planning. It's not planned. Of course, the school map has changed a little, but it's been parchetes and we have to plan it here. Yesterday, we argued about the French teachers. It is also a consequence of lack of planning, as in other specialities, in secondary education. No schedules. And in education, you have to think for a long time. You have to think about the length of the term. And, as Mr. Pastor has said, there is need of stability, and a firm agreement, a foundation, in order to be able to answer it seriously. And then, in this fundamental principle, we will go on with laxity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u90	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u91	But all this has not yet been accomplished. It is untried, because it was not intended for this legislation either before or before. And here, they were...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u92	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u93	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u95	Well, let's see. Both the representative of Elkarrekin Podemos and the representative of Euskal Herria Bildu, you know that, at least our group, we have rarely left anyone at the stand, be parents' associations, be groups of specialists in special support needs, be cloisters. I think that yesterday, for example, everyone touched our hearts, and I think my words were very clear of support. By the way, that very good program they have from Lagun Berriak left me, frankly, excited. But what I'm telling you again is that there's diversity. Look, last year, in the campaign to enroll in public school, you saw the video; it seems to be, more or less, this year's. It was announced with many colors, and, of course, it was very cheerful, and, moreover, I told them that my granddaughter was coming out; that is, that she was happy with that video. But, let's see, the public school was announced as secular and as euskalduna. Let's see, if anyone wants your... And then he said it was denontzat. Well, no, denontzat ez da. Because, if anyone wants their children to be educated in an environment where Christian humanism prevails, ez da eurentzat, zeren eta esaten baitute: "gu, laikoak". Well, you already have: the public school there does not satisfy a legitimate aspiration of children. And then it was Euskalduna. Well, and if a father wants to go to model B, he wants model B... And, look, Mrs. Ubera has told us about different municipalities, and here's one that she hasn't touched, which is Oyon, Oyon, Oyon, Oyon's problem. Let's see, the problem with Oyon is that Euskera has never been spoken in Oyon. Never. And I'm gonna tell you one thing, and here get ready to rip off all the clothes. There is a right to know Basque, but there is also a right not to know Basque; there is also. So, what's going on? The people of Oyon aren't going to the concert. When it doesn't fit in the concert, you pass half a kilometer and go to Logroño to study. And then, of course, you want to put there a public center in model D, and Oyon's, so, I'm sorry, but it's not – I think – in history, I don't think we can go back, back, back, until a moment when those people, those people spoke in Basque. And that's what happens in Oyon. Because there is a right to know Basque, of course, but there is also a right not to know. So when we find all this diversity, all this diversity, we have to understand that there has to be different forms of teaching, different forms of teaching. Well, what else do I have here? Well, then, there's another thing: you talk about sending people to whatever schools they are. Look, I now have the case of a Pakistani girl in my head who's been sent to a concerted center, the lead agency has sent her. Well, the parents are looking forward to next year's transfer. It's just that we can't chain people up. There's something called a license transfer. And it's absolutely human that groups with similar circumstances want to be together. Then, you will have to in areas where there are many Pakistani families, as much as you put those children in concert, as soon as they can make the change of enrollment, go to those centers that find more culturally related. And the same with people coming from South America; the same with people coming from the Maghreb; the same with people coming from the Sahel. And that's what happens. So, what we have to get is quality in whatever center we're talking about. And all the help... let's go, all the help not, all the demand to the government, that for that we are, so that it fixes some infrastructures, that the truth is that they are painful; so that we end up at once with the problem of teachers, so that they can be in places where they have a working life of 15, 20 years. In all that they will have us with you. But first, parents' freedom to give their children what they consider most appropriate. Eta eskola publikoa, laikoa bada eta euskalduna bada, ez da denontzat izango.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u96	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor mustn't talk. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u97	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Good afternoon, again. Mrs. Bengochea, in the country of Oion, many families have made up their minds a few decades ago to make their children come to an end. And they've acted like that for decades. And today, the families of the Oion have a chance to learn in the public network as well as in the D model. It is not something that will come, but at the present day families have occasion to learn in the D model, with other examples. Mr Martínez, well, the vast majority of his parliamentary group has made it possible, with his abstention, for Euskadi to have, among other measures and initiatives, EUR 57 million earmarked for non-university scholarships. Do you think that is not to continue to drive an education system that helps to overcome socio-economic obstacles by ensuring cohesion? Because there is a huge annual investment in scholarships. And you said Basque is an exception, but for you, in a negative way, of course. There is, indeed, an exception in other communities, which leads a much larger portion of the budget of Eukadin to the field of education, to the field of public education. As for the EH Collectors, when the budget project was introduced, I thought for a moment that maybe it was the priority of the budget project and that it was associated with the hinges. In fact, except for a single paragraph in general correction, you presented only one partial correction, corresponding to the University of the Basque Country. No corrections to correct all those things which are so ill for the present day. Sounds funny. And, to the point that everything goes wrong, that the principles, the criteria that are followed are not appropriate, unlike what you think and manifest, look where, I do believe that the then advisor Tontxu Campos, member of his coalition, made an appropriate approach, and that, exercising with responsibility, the Administration must follow those principles when continually redesigning the school map. Then I don't know why Mr. Martín talks of the freedom to choose like that, and he gets furious with it. But it's in the budget contract signed with the Podemos together, in fact, that terminology. You're saying that freedom or right is what you think is ideological. And is not the ideological to wish to abolish or destroy this freedom or right? In fact, ideology and beliefs have something to say in their daily routine and their decisions,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u98	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u99	No doubt, but without the confession of that freedom or right, we could not act according to these ideology or beliefs, either in a sense or in a quite contrary direction. So, even if you share the positions, it's always a matter of respect. I must admit that the amendment you have signed seems frankly innovative. Instead of merging the Elkarrekin Podemos initiative with the amendment tabled by Mrs Ubera in 2018, you have made a mix between the Elkarrekin Podemos initiative and a 2020 EH Bildu initiative whose accumulation, curiously, was rejected by Elkarrekin Podemos. Therefore, I say that Mrs Ubera must have felt weak the position of EH Bildu in 2018 or not appropriate for these moments when you are all so nervous. I therefore think that your compromise amendment is innovative. And last week I had the opportunity to read an article about the debate prompted by a proposal to adapt the school map in Bilbao, specifically in the Santutxu neighborhood. And it was published by one of the intellectual parents of that ILP mentioned by Mr. Martinez, who liked you so much and who was going to be the balm that cured all the evils that, in your opinion, plagued the educational system. After making some reflections on the background of the positions of the different groups involved in the conflict, as well as some pronouncements of you, Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu, the author finished the article by saying: "The Administration cannot be asked to be bold in its planning to take action against segregation and criticize it when it does. Let's do pedagogy to overcome social fears in all communities. We must have an opportunity, yes, but to mestization and coexistence, and let us not make life impossible for the Administration when it does its duties." I hope you will follow this author with the same enthusiasm this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u100	Thank you, Mrs. News. End of discussion, we'll vote together with the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the contrary, 46; the abstainments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u101	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, Basque Sociists, and the Middle Amendment signed by the Eubertarians. You can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 28; the Absences.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u102	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. The eighth point in the subject list: "The other proposal of the Parlamentarian Society, as made by the Parlamentary Popular Society, concerning the delegation of the High-wealths at the Rule of the Callive Council of the Kalia. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, who is the representative of the Potion of the Basque Team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. The initiative presented by the People's Group to this plenary refers to the Rioja Regulatory Council for the Designation of Qualified Origin, specifically the representation of the competent institutions in the governing bodies of this council, which are the plenary and the working committees. This designation of origin consists of 65,000 hectares of vineyards, which correspond to three autonomous communities: Navarra, Rioja and País Vasco. And, within the Basque Country, it is the region of Rioja Alavesa, with 13,000 hectares of vineyards, which shares this denomination of qualified origin Rioja. Two unique notes of this denomination. At the end of the 19th century, and given the new ways of producing wine, Rioja wine has its own identity, links the name to its origin, and producers, winegrowers and processors feel the need to protect the identity of their wines against usurpers and counterfeiters. And from there arose his official recognition on June 6, 1925: the denomination of origin Rioja. The oldest in Spain. The first that will soon turn a century. And in addition, in 1991 it became qualified, a higher category that it shares with the Priory. Only these two denominations today have this higher value of qualifications within the 70 designations of origin of Spain. Therefore, name of origin Rioja, the first of Spain, and qualified. The regulatory board shall be the managing body for the designation of origin. It monitors, audits and controls the entire process of production of the Rioja, from the vineyard to the market: planting density, densities per hectare and varieties, labelling, valuations of vintages, inspection work. Everything necessary to ensure the origin, the addition, the type of processing and also the control at the marketing stage. At the plenary session of the Council, the highest management body, the name policy is marked. On the one hand, there are development and productive control and quality. This is the backbone of a designation of origin, which lies its competence in our Autonomous Community in the Foral Diputación de Álava. And then, promotion and market orientation. This council is composed of 32 members: sectoral representatives, wineries and winegrowers. The representative of the Ministry and the representatives of the three autonomous communities: Rioja, Basque Country and Navarra also participate with voice and without vote. In the Basque Country, the Law on Relations between the Common Institutions of the Autonomous Community and the Foral Bodies of their Territories sets out the competences of the territories. And, thus, in Article 7(b)(1), specifies that viticulture and oenology are the competence of historical territories. The Foral de Álava, in this case, exercises jurisdiction over these matters on a regular basis, with the sole exception of the regulatory council, since that position is held by the representative of the Basque Government. This is not the first time we have raised this issue in the People's Group. Already in 2004, since the People's Government of the Foral Diputación de Álava, the need to participate in the regulatory council was raised to the councillor, at that time Mr Saénz de Samaniego. And it is true that the councillor Mr Sáenz de Samaniego invited the outlaw deputy of Álava on a matter that directly affected production, and he went to that council. Only once. An exception. Álava is limited in its powers in the regulatory council, but not only did the People's Group think and manifest this limitation, but, in January 2010, the Basque Nationalist Group presented in this House a non-legislative proposal calling on the Basque Government, in application of the principle of subsidiarity and in the context of competition, to transfer or share the representation of the Basque Autonomous Community in the Regulatory Council for the Denomination of Origin Rioja with the Foral Diputación de Álava. He did not ask for the vote; he asked for the representation to be transferred or shared. At that time, it was unanimously approved in this House that the representation of the Basque Autonomous Community in the Regulating Council of the Denomination of Qualified Origin Rioja is shared with the Foral Diputación de Álava. This is reflected in the committee's minutes. The government of Mr Sánchez (sic) did not comply with this. And when the PNV returned to the government, he forgot what he had proposed and what we had approved in his day in this House. The reality is that the Basque Government, the Vice-Adviser of Agriculture, has lost all interest in participating in this council. Do not come regularly; it has been almost two years without the assistance of the vice-advisor; from time to time, some technician has gone; in the last year they have hardly come... This is what has encouraged us to present this initiative. For the People's Group – and I hope that for all of you – it is important to take care of, pamper and look forward to everything that surrounds Rioja's designation of qualified origin. We speak of a region with approximately 11,500 inhabitants, where Rioja wine is the economic engine of the area and generates around 25,000 direct and indirect jobs. We proposed a simple and clear initiative. We said – as was said at the time in this House – that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to delegate representation to the Regulating Council of the Denomination of Qualified Origin Rioja in the Foral Diputación de Álava, when dealing with matters of wine and wine competition. Something that had already been approved in this House, but, since it is not fulfilled, we insist on the need for this to be so, for the sake of the denomination, for the sake of the winegrowers, for the sake of the wineries of Rioja Alavesa. In the amendments that have been proposed to us to the groups, the Government, the PNV, the Socialist Group say that it is the Ministry that studies the amendment of the statutes of the Council of the Denomination of Qualified Origin Rioja so that the autonomous communities participate with voice and vote in the plenary and in the commissions of the council, and that it is incorporated into the participation in both bodies to the Foral Diputación de Álava. And I am surprised and surprised by many who, after 40 years of participation in the council, have never asked for a vote in the council. 40 years and they have never asked, they have felt this need to vote. And they don't explain it; they don't understand, they don't understand. And another thing. Here the Basque Government participates in the regulatory councils of the designations of origin of the Txakoli, and they do not have a vote either. They don't have a vote. They didn't ask for it either. Nor do they express interest in it. And, in addition, they do a special thing in the amendment; they ask for the Basque Country two representatives: that of the Basque Government and that of the Diputación. They don't ask everyone to come to their skills. No, no, They ask for two, when he can only be a representative. The Ministry has answered, and makes it very clear, but very clear. It is the responsibility of each autonomous community to determine who is to be represented. It is the responsibility of the Basque Government to determine the representation of the Chamber of Deputies on the Board of Regulators. The Chamber cannot go to the council because the Basque Government does not want to determine it that way. This is what there is, what we have. You don't have to divert balloons outside. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I understand that your approach is inconsistent and that it shows great contempt for the Council, when it does not go to the plenary of the Council and does not allow the Foral Chamber of Álava to go as the competent administration. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot take your initiative into account. We think, well, a kick up, that the Ministry decides. And that does contribute or help us to think that his interest in the designation of origin Rioja has nothing to do with what is discussed in the council, with production, with marketing. The interest has it elsewhere, not in the production of Rioja in Álava, in this case, nor in the denomination. Elkarrekin We can, therefore, have tabled an amendment which seems to us to ultimately urge the Government to work responsibly and in coordination with the Foral Chamber of Álava, but what is lacking is to determine that the Chamber must participate under its jurisdiction. All right, but it seems to us that it lacks the central axis of the controversy, in this case, which is the lack of participation, because it is very important to participate in that regulatory council; there are all the measures for adequate production with the specifications of the designation of origin. And the competent administration, logically, has to be part of that council; it is bound to be part of it. Therefore, well, it seems to us that the idea is good, but it does not complete with the origin of the initiative. With regard to EH Bildu's initiative, he also referred to the vote. And, well, I think it has already become clear that the Basque Autonomous Community has the competence to say and determine who should be represented on the regulatory board. And if you have goodwill, then you should comply with it. But we are very afraid that, given the amendment and knowing what is on the table, they will not agree to renounce this claim to obtain the vote, when they do not have it on any regulatory board of other designations of origin. Therefore, this is the initiative we put on the table. And, well, you are free to support this initiative or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Becerra, your word is de.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good noon. There's an old Spanish saying that says "Meeting of shepherds, dead sheep." And, around the wine, the wine of La Rioja or the wine of the Rioja Alavesa, the truth is that there is a lot of pastor; there are many interests – economic interests, political interests – all of them particular interests that often do not go in line with what should be the common good of the region. And while it is true that wine is not a dead sheep, that wine is not dead, and that neither can it be said that it is an agonizing sector, it is true that it has unresolved problems and that it has challenges in the future, challenges in the future as important as facing climate change; such as tariffs on exports, not only to the United States, but also to the United Kingdom, which is our main market and with the Brexit And, around this sheep that is the wine, the wine of Rioja Alavesa, there are many shepherds, there are many shepherds. There is the Basque Government, there is the Foral Diputación de Álava, there is the Council of the Denomination of Origin Rioja, there are our local entities – the Rioja Alavesa gang and the municipalities – there are the large wineries and there are also the small family wineries, farmers and farmers and also workers in the countryside. And at this meeting of shepherds, therefore, many things are spoken of. There are partial debates, peripheral debates, debates interested sometimes – Mrs López de Ocariz has defined this as controversial today – which, however, do not go to the challenges I have talked about. These are debates that do focus on the media, such as the brand, such as the designation of origin, which was a debate we had last November, or now on the representation of Euskadi in that designation of origin. The debate or controversy today is whether the representative of the Basque Government is working or not, whether he is going or not, whether he would have to go to the Chamber or whether the Government would have to go, whether he was going with a vote, whether he was going to go with a vote or if he was going with two votes. And they are debates about the means and not about the ends, about the ends that we should be interested in, about the common good. But I also have to admit – and I'm going to say it expressly – that it's better to talk about this than not to talk; because not to talk is that it seems like nothing's going on, and that's not true. And, then, I have to thank Mrs López de Ocariz for her intention to bring this debate, because it is better that we talk at least about this, than we continue to let the sheep languish without doing anything. And, in my opinion, as if nothing were to happen to them, and not to defend their interests, and leave them to be a great fault in private interests. That's why today we're going to argue about the right division, and we'll hear and we'll hear that Euko MU has the right to promote and promotement, and that there's the right to raisin and ethin' of the ethin. And it's true. And here also is the council, with its rights to manage and regulate the mark. But if we continue in this discussion, we shall forget the real discussion, and it is a true discussion: Why do we want our jurisdiction? To develop the Shire or follow it? I also said this in the previous debate: why do we debate? What is the real debate? What do we want the brand for? What do we want these skills for today? Do we want them to improve, to advance, to differentiate our wine from other wines? To make wine of better quality, with higher added value? So it's a wine with more root in the region? To make a wine growing more sustainable? So that we can achieve more decent working conditions for workers? As long as this debate does not take place, our group's amendment – to be insufficient for the proposer – came to say that the institutions cooperate and coordinate – at least, at least –; that they speak, that they speak among themselves, that they speak with the designation of origin, that they speak and that they listen; that they listen to farmers and small wineries who are disappearing; that they give mutual support and assistance. As long as this debate does not take place, everything we deal with in these partial debates will remain minor issues, but, even so – and I have to acknowledge to the proposer the intention and the search she has made for a broader agreement – I have to say that we would have preferred to keep our amendment, but we will still vote in favour of the proposal of the People's Party, because, being not enough, at least, it does not just shut up and look elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u106	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. EHGG rep. Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to tell you, it's nice to meet you at this hour. I always like to talk about wine, but at this hour I think a little more. And I will try to be as brief as I can, because I have three messages, three very clear messages: one, by the regulatory council; the other, the attitude of the government; and, another, how not, the needs or attitudes that the sector has to have and the alternatives in which it is in. Of course, I agree with my colleague Becerra that the issue is fundamental, and we must thank Mrs López de Ocariz for bringing this issue here, although, in fact, I also have to admit that I believe that the initiative is an expired film; it simply expired, because we have already had a reply from the Ministry in which it says: "You are late." Of course, what I was saying: I had three points, and one is the attitude of the regulatory board. Indeed, we will be able to discuss how to vote, how to participate, but the attitude of the regulatory council, over and over again, remains scandalous; it remains scandalous because it is with a point of obsession and under commercial interests, political interests of the big traders, of the big wineries of the Rioja group. And that's the way it is. I think this week, more than any other week, we've seen it firsthand, and we're seeing a point of obsession with that centralization, for that wanting to control everything and for that lock that is "or I have everything, or here no one has anything." From Euskal Herria Bildu we find it difficult to understand it, especially because these alternatives will always be welcome, and France shows it to us, Italy shows it: that, the more denominations of origin we have, much more wealth of country we have. And in this case, the regulatory council shows us and gives us a blow on the table telling us that nanay, that it is them and nothing more than them. So this attitude, I would say as an attacker, casts a little doubt not only on his decisions, but on the ways even to make them. When we talked here about good faith, I'm sorry to tell you, but the good faith of the governing council I doubt. Of course, I don't trust her. The attitude of the Basque Government. Well, the attitude of the Basque Government... I think that a few weeks ago we were discussing it here, with the Rioja Alavesa brand theme; it has disappeared, not because it does not go to the last meetings – which has not been in recent years – but because, well, in that non-vote, in that non-complaint of the Rioja Alavesa brand, because it has become clear that the government was not actually doing its duties. We asked for something very concrete in our compromise amendment: a proactive attitude; I don't know if so much to go and get a vote, because I think the Ministry answers us here, because they don't consider their origin – there is nothing to do; the government doesn't need to vote – but a proactive attitude, because that would mean that we are defending not only the interests of the region, of a Basque and Alavesa region, but also of the family and small wineries of Rioja Alavesa. I would also say that it is an obligation to defend it against the regulatory council, even. And tomorrow, I will also take advantage of the opportunity that will give me to talk about the new name Vineyards of Álava-Arabako Mahastiak, and I believe that is what we ask the Basque Government: a proactive attitude, and that it moves, that it puts resources, that it fights. And I know that within the governing council changing attitudes to the council itself is impossible, because, simply, the balance where the votes are and who has the weight of those decisions... well, then, it's a little complicated, isn't it? Of course, I believe that neither the Basque Government nor the Foral de Álava have responded as they should to the needs of the sector, to the defence of the sector... I say laves, but, more than laves, it is familiar and small wineries, in this case, laves; and that, of course, we have to participate in the meetings... well, I would say that they are paid for that. On the subject of the sector, look. In 2019, the wine addition was excellent. If we stay like this, with that, we say: "excellent added, the governing council happy, everyone happy, the government happy, the people who buy Rioja wine are also happy...". But, to the sector, to the people who are producing wine, that there is an excellent addition has not meant anything. I mean, yes, it's excellent, but the prices of the grape have dropped, the price of the wine has dropped, and that means that the regulatory board and the large wineries are taking advantage of that excellent addition to continue selling more, for that obsession with the amount of wine we're going to sell, but it's not always attached to quality. Of course, Euskal Herria Bildu – and I'm going to finish – does have dice on top of the table. We have them all and all, and it is that in the last two years more than 37 small wineries have disappeared, these of which we speak of "harvests". I think it is a fact that puts our hairs at the top, as such, because, if for something is famous our region, it is because of that – I would say – wine reaper. But those cellars that have disappeared mark that this model, which drives the regulatory council, is not valid for all. And, besides, I'm going to say one thing: that you're trying to divert the subject. We're talking about a theme all the time: wine, wine, wine... There are certain political interests – I would also say journalistic, industrial –, how not, in distorting, in changing a little..., in diverting the topic, putting the focus elsewhere, and it's because they talk about: "Well, this is what Euskal Herria Bildu defends because we are between Alavesa or Spanish wineries". No, no, no, no. It's not a matter of nationalism. It's a model theme. It's a matter of quantity against quality. It is a matter of producing, creating region, or not. And in that, the regulatory board once again shows us that, of course, they bet on the amount. I believe that this is also a country policy. I don't think this is the first time I've said it in these microphones; I hope it's not the last one either. I mean, I think this is a policy that has to be made country with. We're all in a trainer – I heard it the other day on the radio, I think – in a trainer where we all have to row. That's right, since we're all sitting on the same side of the trainer, we're going to row, yeah, but we're going to be spinning around. So, I think this is a country policy, and there I look at the counselor, that I have her in front of me, because, if we all row in the same direction, I think we have something to fix. As long as we're each throwing each other in a partisan way, in a particular way towards the sides, we won't get anything. To finish. Today we don't talk so much about how we're going to work on the regulatory board, that we all have very clear technicalally how it works, but we're going to talk about respect and support for the sector, the family cellars and the region. We don't have another remedy, either. I will also finish with an article that I found this morning and that says that four wineries of Rioja Alavesa are on the podium of the wine guru Tim Atkin, a British critic who marks which wine is good or very good. And it's very funny, because in the last report that comes out comes to issue a warning, a warning to the establishment establishment Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u108	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours. pritore san vicente Probably, if we are in this Parliament today dealing with this issue, it is because it is a chapter more than a few years back in which there is a certain discomfort and a certain disenchantment when it comes to highlighting what Rioja Alavesa means within the sector of the Rioja denomination, probably because, despite the quantitative and qualitative weight of Rioja Alavesa, it is often considered that some decisions taken in the regulatory council do not sufficiently empower this area, the Rioja Alavesa area. And, indeed, in recent years there have been problems with how qualities are promoted, how price policy is made, and with other decisions that have also to do with the quality of wine and, therefore, with the production of wine. Indeed, there are problems, and in addition, in some way, it has been considered that this quantitative and qualitative weight of Rioja Alavesa, which is very important within the whole of Rioja, did not have sufficient consideration on the part of the whole sector. Well, these are problems that we've been dragging around and that occasionally provoke some initiatives – today, this one; we've had others before – and that also generate other controversies. But I believe that – at least it seems important to me – what we should never do is lose sight of why Rioja, in this case Rioja Alavesa, is a success story. And it is, first of all, because it has a very important wine production. Secondly, because it has an industrial sector for very powerful wine, because it has a very good quality, in some cases, because in Rioja Alavesa, as in Rioja Alta, as in Rioja Baja or Rioja Oriental, there are wines of medium quality, of low quality, of high quality. In all places there is everything, but there is an important volume in the production of Rioja Alavesa of quality wines, and therefore it is wanted that quality be valued, that that capacity be valued, and that success story makes us produce large quantities of wine, those large quantities of wine; to have a capacity to transform them into the market; and to have, in addition, a market policy with a very important export that is, in turn, the one that gives us the return to Rioja Alavesa, to Álava and to Euskadi of that economic and social potential that we all know. Of course, to reach this capacity, to this development of the Rioja sector, it must be said that there are small, medium and large wineries; that small wineries have a specific niche of production; and that the other 80% are produced by large and medium-sized wineries, and that all of them do their part; some have some markets, others have others. But, in order for it to be a success story, that volume is indeed needed. And, therefore, this cannot be a battle between small, medium and large, but it has to be a fit, a frame between them all, so that each one, who has his raison d'être and has his space, can do so in the best conditions, with the best profitability and with the best prospect of the future. Having said that, I regret – and I am very sorry – that, once again in this Parliament, we are not able to, apparently in agreement with what this sector means, and what it means for the economy, and what it means also as a card of presentation of the country and also as a means of opening many other doors to many other things and to many other products, I regret that we are not able to find minimum agreements. Because, seeing the initiative and seeing the amendments of all the groups, including the one that we have tabled by the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, there may be meeting places. And it seems to me more important that there are minimum meeting places than that in the end there are three or four different positions here and that we have to vote in such a disparate way on something that, in essence, can be summed up in which we all share in this Parliament – or I think we all share in this Parliament – that Rioja Alavesa does not have the weight, the value, the treatment, the fit that should have its importance in the regulatory council and in the sector as a whole. And we are on the one hand and on the other trying to open spaces, paths, and one of them is the one we have presented, to seek that harmony. The recent history of the sector of Rioja Alavesa is a history of disagreements; it is a story to which, as I have said on more than one occasion in this rostrum, it is left with political ideology and lacks to push professionally, lacks to push economically and socially, and lacks unity of action and criterion in relation to this. And so, new initiatives arise from which I prefer not to speak today, because they are also elements of controversy and contradiction, not only among us, but also with the regulatory council, also between institutions, also with the Ministry of Agriculture. And in the end, they don't lead us to anything. I think we should try to follow that kind of route that wine is supposed to follow, and it's usually discussed more after drinking it. Here we discussed more before we drank it. Perhaps we should discuss less before we drink it and try to reach more agreements. But, well, some argue that wine is bottled poetry. See how much bottled poetry there is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u109	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mrs. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief, congressmans, good noon to all. Well, imagine that they come to this plenary every Thursday and that they listen, they debate each of the points of the day, but when it comes time to vote, some parliamentarians are not allowed and they have to resign to see how others and others can exercise their right to vote. Well, that's what happens every plenary of the Rioja Origin Regulatory Council with the representative of the Basque Government: you can come whenever you are invited by the Council, but to act as a mere spectator, because you have a voice but I don't vote. The statutes of the regulatory council state that the representatives of the autonomous communities of La Rioja, Basque Country and Navarra, in addition to the Ministry of Agriculture, will be invited to the plenary when it is deemed appropriate to attend. From our group we consider that this invitation to participation without a vote is not enough, because it does not lead anywhere; we cannot condition or take part or influence decisions that are key to our Alaves winegrowers and winegrowers. It is essential that the representation of public administrations be with a voice and a vote; otherwise, it serves absolutely nothing. This is how this active and decisive presence is achieved in the decision-making of the council. The utility is in the vote. Not voting is to say amen to what others decide for our farmers. The Basque Government represents and defends the rights and interests of all wine-growers and wine-growers of Rioja Alavesa in the full council and wherever necessary. And, contrary to what has been said here, the representative always comes up with questions that affect the interests of the Alaves and Alaves. But, yes, at no time can he vote. As far as the representation of farmers on the council of the sector is concerned, therefore, it is laughable; it is only 20%. Neither the small wineries nor the mediums are defended there with their interests. And that's what the data says, but also most of Rioja Alavesa winegrowers when asked about it. 40 wineries are made with 83 % of the marketing of Rioja, which means that more than 550 wineries are left to compete for the remaining 20 %. That is the economic reality of the designation of origin defended by the regulatory board. What's the place for small processors? With these figures so unbalanced, the Alavese winegrowers, as a minority in the council, play it with the decisions that others make for them and that affect their vineyards, their way of working, their way of developing, their way of marketing. It is not fair that they are not taken into account as they deserve. Small processors, which are examples of people, land, tradition and roots, must be taken into account. Small wineries keep people alive; if they leave, they die. That balance must be sought between the large and small wineries. And it's about living together. Rioja Alavesa is unique, it is different, for its soil characteristics, for its vineyards, for its climate, for its cosicheros, for its model of family winery, for its way of making... For many nuances, it is clearly differentiated from the rest of the zones or sub-areas of the denomination. In Rioja Alavesa the small lands predominate in front of the large extensions of the rest of La Rioja. And that, in addition to conditioning their way of working, entails much more elaborate production costs than in the rest of La Rioja. And you can neither confuse nor mix with that all that stands for and represents the governing council. You can't turn your back on that reality, treating it like another. In Rioja Alavesa many different realities coexist, and each should be respected. If they felt integrated, no one would want to look for other alternatives. The council has to abandon its re-centralizing, unifying strategy, because the ways of producing and producing wines are different: it cannot give the same answer to a family winery that breeds 5,000 bottles with its own grape or to another that makes 50,000, for example, with grapes from the entire area of La Rioja. This homogenization is causing important problems for the Alavese winegrowers, since the large wineries control the council and manage large volumes of production. And its business model is incompatible with the lavés model, which prioritizes quality compared to quantity. If it continues to be sold by price and not by quality, Rioja Alavesa will not be able to hold. Some of them insist that the residual pattern of the Araguaia should be bearable. The great reservoirs establish the prices downwards, and condition the market of the wines and grapes. As the price of wine is not calculated, many small cellars which have been transmitted for generations must have ceased to make grapes and to sell them. Another example which shows that the pattern which the Council wants to obtain is based on quantity is that the latest cluster of grapes has increased in the 9% general mode for the campaign, and that it collides with the production model in the Errixa, which seeks quality. You can't think only of the economic utility which the great cellars bring. It must come back to the origin, for the nomination was formed to defend its quality, and by the effort of all, it was made to be called the original. Let's not lose that now. Another obstacle to which the small vine-makers and wine-makers ought to oppose is too much bureaucracy and papering. And these are to be brought into the field, in the cellar, and in the daily work that they do at the wine division. Sometimes, instead of helping and facilitate their projects, the demands of documents, forms, and others are a great obstacle. Recently, we were discussing in this Parliament the purpose that the regulatory council carried out with the registration of the Rioja Alavesa brand. It seems that it has us more than accustomed and accustomed to its excesses of protecting, promoting, marketing and controlling the productivity and quality of wine. It has been trying to invade skills, such as tourism, which is exclusive to the Basque Government. And the council has put in place an wine tourism strategy, which re-homogenizes the tourist offer, treating La Rioja as an equally visitable whole, when there are many Basque institutions that have been working for years to enhance tourism in Rioja Alavesa and explain the differentiation that characterizes the region so much. In recent times there are many dangers which cause the market of the Errisha of Arbatha. Some of them have been mentioned: the liberalization of the plant. In the next years, plant rights are given. With the taxation of the earth, they will be able to plant in other areas, which are not now permitted, and which are more economically profitable, and larger than those of our own district. and they will plant them in greater numbers, so that they will succeed in greater numbers. There will be another attack on the residual quality of the Arababa: the limits of wine are already being worked on by the market, brexit. Anyway. In short, we will have to deal with all these issues, and we will have to do so as before: maintaining a way of doing, an identity. Therefore, a model change in the relationship between the council is necessary. Why do most of the Alavese farmers not feel represented or identified in a project that is also theirs? Well, you'd have to think about it, wouldn't you? And that issue must be addressed only in the light of the needs of its protagonists, who are the winegrowers and winegrowers of Rioja Alavesa. They must decide their future, future that has been demanding for years, and that goes through differentiation, a necessary differentiation to continue to value the quality of wines; and that they can take part in decisions about varieties, production, labelling or marketing, and any measures that affect their business model. For this reason, our group and the Basque Socialists tabled an amendment calling on the Council and the Ministry of Agriculture to study the amendment of the statutes so that our representatives can come to the Council with a vote and a vote, and, in addition, the Foral de Álava can also do so. A much more ambitious proposal than the original one, because we consider the presence of the two institutions important, more when it is a body in which fundamental decisions are made for the future of Rioja Alavesa and its winegrowers and winegrowers. And it is essential to be with voice and vote. Mrs López de Ocariz said that before we did not ask for the vote and now we do. Obviously. Obviously. It is increasingly important and necessary to have a presence on the regulatory board, because it is increasingly abusive with the Alavese farmers, and it is necessary to be defending the interests and differentiation of Rioja Alavesa that do not take into account. In addition, this presence is necessary because the two institutions, the Statute and the Historical Territories Act confer powers on the more than 13,000 hectares of vineyards in Rioja Alavesa. The Chamber, which, by the way, helped, and much, in the creation of the denomination, has competence in production, and the Basque Government in promotion and marketing. And, as they have also commented here, the Ministry has already replied that it will not do so, that it will not change the statutes. Well, why does the Ministry tell us we're not giving up? For 40 years we have been asking for the competences that do belong to us, and that is why we have not stopped doing so. Therefore, we insist, we continue, we insist, and we will continue to do so always, in the defense of Basque citizenship and, in this case, of the interests of the winegrowers and winegrowers of Rioja Alavesa. And it is clear that new formulas must be sought to reverse this situation, to slow down the council and re-enact quality. But when a whole sector demands change, red and bottled, Rioja Alavesa.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. On the answer turn, representing the Basque Potion Group. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u112	Mrs. Molina, if you need to be, why don't you go? I wonder. Is it necessary? Well, they're not going. Look, you are constantly contradicting each other, because there is no constructive spirit in this government. There is no responsible management spirit. We are on time, at the moment, the headline, the situation, the electoral campaign of the moment; that is what we are. We're not in responsible management. Here there is a permanent contempt, especially in the last seven years, for the denomination of Rioja's qualified origin. This government has been provoking division for years, breaking the designation of qualified origin Rioja. It does not miss the opportunity to entangle and dynamite this name Rioja, which affects a very important area of the Rioja Alavesa. In this case, they raise their plot to the Ministry: Madrid is to blame. Otherwise, the council is to blame. Look, this is very old, very cuddly. This is from the last century. Smell. It smells, and it smells bad. They are not credible with this argument. What's the government doing? What's the government doing? Well, the government takes a text that someone has submitted to it. ABRA has submitted a text, which has not passed through any assembly; a dark, unshared text, which does not know who supports it, and raises it to the Bulletin. Of course, everything must be raised high in the Bulletin. And this they say is because we have to promote a wine proposal for Álava, a proposal that, if you look at it, with all the important things it must be, has no face and eyes. Yes, she does have a face and eyes; she put them yesterday. It is the only face and eyes that has come out to defend this proposal; the only, with the support of Mr Lehendakari. There isn't. Where? Which producers support this? Where are they? That has not passed this document through an assembly of the association itself. And this is dark. It is an incomplete document, because not all the allegations requested by the Álava Chamber have been supplemented. Look, the area of Rioja Alavesa is the rural area of the whole Basque Country with the greatest projection of the future. It is the only area where a high volume of generational relief occurs in the primary sector. It has a very important tourist potential. And it turns out that, by a document we do not even know who has produced, which seems to be the Basque Government itself, they put 25,000 jobs at risk. They put at risk the work and the future and economy of an area with 11,500 inhabitants. They put at risk the sale of 81 billion liters of wine that have been, for example, in 2018. They put the production of 2,480 winegrowers at risk, the production and production of 340 wineries. But what frivolity is this, ladies and gentlemen, what frivolity? All to see what space of power it occupies. They do not care about anything: neither the wine of Rioja, nor La Rioja, nor anything; nor its inhabitants, nor the workers, nor the tourism or industrial potential that exists in the area. They don't care at all. They go to their partisan and private interests. The problems it has for export, the challenges that the wine sector is currently facing, especially that of Rioja Alavesa, which has not been given the cache and the value, and it is put on the list that it deserves. Because we are attacking him all day, mainly from the largest institution in this Autonomous Community, which is the Basque Government. They're in a permanent attack all day. And this undermines the economic capacity of this sector. The consumer is beginning to mistrust you, because you sow doubt over this designation of origin. And that's what causes it to be less and less attractive. There are similar ones, not so good, but they are treated with greater mime, with greater affection, and they value everything they contain. And all administrations work in unison. Not here; here we go the other way. And who loses? They lose the producers, they lose the name, they lose the value of the product, which is Rioja's wine, the one that says they want so much. Well, that's what they're doing every moment. They don't say one thing in favor of wine or Rioja Alavesa. You are all day criticizing and questioning every action of the council, of the Ministry, of everything that passes through there, except you, who are the main dynamitiators of the Rioja denomination of origin.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u114	Well, welcome to the last meeting of pastors. Mrs López de Ocariz blames ABRA and the Nationalist Party, the Nationalist Party blames Madrid, EH Bildu blames Rioja's official name, and the Socialist Party blames political ideology. Pastoral meeting, dead sheep. We are still not talking about the real problem, and all of you have said things that are true and have hidden others that are not. For example, Mrs Molina has given great importance to the vote, to the fact that the Basque Government has a vote. A vote on a council that has 100. How decisive is a vote, Mrs Molina? You said, "It's crucial that we have a vote." A vote of 100? A vote is not decisive. It would be interesting if I had it, but no institution has a vote on any denomination board, no one. For example, in that of the Txakoli of Araba, the Basque Government has no vote, nor the Diputación. You have said, Mr Prieto, that the story of Rioja is a success story. We must also say that successes are short-lived: today's success can be tomorrow's failure. And that what you have to look for is lace for each one, for the big, small and medium cellars. But the problem is that we are competing for an increasingly dwindling market, from which we had tried to escape through export, and export is dwindling for us people like Trump or Brexit And that is the problem – Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe has already said –: 37 small wineries have disappeared, 37 harvesters. The harvesters in Rioja Alavesa are almost 50% of the wineries. If we wait for them to have their niche, by the time we are, it will no longer be; the sheep will be dead. I recognize Mrs Molina that, in fact, one of the problems is to sell by price, to sell at low prices. Indeed, that is a very big problem. But we fall into the mistake of thinking that they only sell at price under those of Rioja riojana. Because, Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, in Rioja Alavesa, 20 wineries – i.e. 10% – have 75% of production, 75% of production. And then creating a brand in Rioja Alavesa would lead us to say that if in Rioja's name, of Rioja origin, 43 companies, as has already been said, have 80% of production, in Rioja Alavesa, 20 would have 75%. That is, that, creating a new brand, we would replicate the same model; we would have very large wineries selling at price and a lot of small wineries, in this case 200, to which the market eats. So, the brand itself – I already said it in the November debate – is itself not a solution if it is not going to do something different. Because to face... You said, "Let's get him in front of the regulatory board." The regulatory board is a well-established brand, known all over the world. My question is, can you deal with the regulatory board? So if you can't deal with it, you have to look for another way. How about we look for the way to collaboration? If you can. Let's be practical. Because, indeed – and I agree with you – this should be a country policy. But country policy is done by designing where we're going, where we're going. And that is the debate that we have not had again today. We have had a meeting of pastors, and, at a meeting of pastors, it is known that nothing ever comes out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u115	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u116	Yes, hello, again. I have to admit that I have been happy with the day, because, of so much talking about wine, as much as we like wine, we end up only always discussing wine, and lavish wine, in this case. And really, from the start of the initiative to the end of the debate, so I think we've gone on a roller coaster, going up, going down, and we've ended up talking about something that wasn't what brought us here today. But I'm delighted. I am delighted because it gives me the opportunity to recognize Mrs Molina who has liked her explanation a little; things as they are. And if not, I'd say otherwise. But today we are talking here about that famous brand, which has already become famous this week, that brand that doesn't go against anyone, that just talks about respect, that talks about alternatives, and that talks about respect, I don't know if to your assembly, to the association, to the family and small people or wineries of that association who have asked to differentiate themselves, who have already asked for it two years ago. And the regulatory board didn't respect what it had promised. He didn't respect it. That is why, two years later, the Government has done nothing but technical, which is to implement what it was asked to do. Ready, ready. This is not about judging what people are trying to get with their money at the end of the month, what people can do with their grapes or their wine, whether we label it and sell it in Shanghai or sell it in Bilbao. That's what we're talking about here today. This new initiative of Álava vineyards only adds up; it does not leave; it creates alternatives; it does not go against anyone, nor against the Government, nor against the Diputation, nor against us, nor against anyone. I used to say that, because I dropped the paper: this is not a question of nationalism; it is a question of survival. That's it, that's it. Rioja Alavesa belongs to those who live and work there, to no one else: not to a company, not to a private club, not to the regulatory council, not even to a political party; no one, that is, no one. It belongs to those who are there. And who maintains the territory? Who keeps the villages? Those who work and live there. Because those people are living and working there and creating economy, not the big wineries that arrive, that buy, that stay with the vineyards and that, of course, sell at price. Those don't. Of course, I acknowledge that, in order not to put any intention into this initiative, I am glad that the debate has taken place, and I appeal to Mrs Tapia, who I will ask you again tomorrow about the subject, because I like to talk about wine, I also like to drink it, but above all I like the Government to tell us clearly what it is going to do or what it is not going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u117	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Basque Socialists. Mr Price mustn't speak. Eubertarians. Mrs. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u118	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs López de Ocariz, you said in your first speech that you were encouraged to present this initiative by the presence or not of the vice-counsel in the plenary of the regulatory council. That is, it has not been encouraged because the council invades competences and none of the Alaves. Interesting. And what contempt. Well, I've already told you that the Basque Government defends the interests of the Albanians where it has to do so. And you say that, well, that we've had a little bit of a time with the board's vision. Well, we already know that you defend that council because you share that re-centralizing obsession, but it is the winemakers who are demanding more presence in the council and a change, and not a small change; a great change for their economic model, and re-priorizing quality over quantity, which is the policy that is now developing the council. Also forget the document that torments you so much, because the Basque Government has done an administrative procedure that it has to do if it does not want to invade. And Mr. Becerra, well, he says total, one vote...; one more vote, one less vote... Less decisive will be not voting, I say, but, well. To continue with your example, nothing, listen, I challenge you that you do not vote on this point right now what we will do, because, total, one more vote, one less vote... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. The discussion is over, and we shall place the original text of the proposition, as of the Euskal Potula. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 20; the contrary, 37; the Abstations, 17th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u120	So, not allowed original text. After that, we're going to vote for the full line of Podemos together. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The contrary, 37; Abstations 26.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u121	So it's not accepted. We're going to vote for the full rights of the EH team. You can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the contrary, 46; the abstainments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u122	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. You can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 37; the contrary, 20; the Abstations, 17th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-06.u123	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-seven.
