ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, concerning the commitments and ends which the Department of Cultura and Language excite in the equality of women and men." Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u1	Thank you, Mrs. President. The president, the chief physician, the congressman, all good days. Mr. Zupiria, we know that when you're in the equality of men and women, it's a great deal of politics working through this legislation. We further assume, that it is necessary, in the sphere of equality, to prepare for you the measures of action, and not only to come from generation, but to plan in a transversal manner. It's important because it's a basic axis, and it seems important to us to mark the basic axiss from its own sphere of influence, because it's an account that we have to keep inside our daily life in order to achieve real equality. We know that from your division, from the Cultural and the Language Department, various measures are taken, and have taken several decisions, even on the committee of the Vice Chief of Policy Language, we have heard him talk about this subject. But today, we would like to know what that is made of Cultural. We know that it is a changeable culture, that we need it for social collapse, and we would like to know what measures are taken in the sphere of equality, whether out of the question, in order to act directly in society, but also in the internal work. Before you go, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u3	Chief of Parliament, President, members of the legislature, Mrs. Guruga, good morning to all of you. In accordance with the law of 2005 for the equality of women and men, the Department of Cultural and Language has established the plan of equality for legislation. But to-day, beyond the initiative in the department, I shall report those actions which have been urged from the Cultural to equality by our fellow-in-laws. We attach an absolute importance to the design of advancing in the culture world in the equality of the women and men. Cultural is an indispensable element, as you have said, on the way to build a more advanced, more cohesion, and more free society. And it is indispensable to penetrate into the equality of women and men. I will classify the actions that we encourage in three sets: On the one hand, the formation of the members of the department in equality, on the other, the inquiry and the diagnosis, and, thirdly, the possibility of the women of culture. Here are the main initiatives that are encouraged. As for the formation, in 2018, there were three workers of the Cultural Department in equal formation; in 2019, four out of ten; and in 2020, it is intended that half the co-workers should have their formation. In money-interests, contracts, and compacts, the clause of equality is properly grafted into this form of design. Second: As to research and diagnostics, I'd like to highlight four researchs. On the one hand, all the subsidies in town, forums, and all the accounts in the culture department have been tested, all 63. Thirty of them have included clauses of equality. There's a bright tendency to go, but there's something to do with it. Second inquiry: the diagnosis of the diversity of genera in the drama, dancing, books, and music. Research has revealed that the presence of women is 34% of the female presence in the corporate and cultural organization directors. Even books written by women are 34%. At the other end, the choreography firms of 2018 have been almost seven helpmen from ten to seven. Third inquiry: genus politics called in museums and art centres. He's out of charge in the show: the women, 35%; the men's, 65%. Women get a smaller fee for the show and occupy a smaller space. And finally, the statistics of art, culture and creative industry. Modan, the trade of language and publicity are women majority. On the other hand, in the case of design and architecture, there are about 40% women's presence. In the video game sector at the other end, women only have their presence at three o'clock from ten of their jobs. The third strategic line: to make women see and make them see. The most remarkable actions for: On the one hand, in the work which we have begun to establish the immaterial domain, we will give the scope to women, and on the other, based on the study of the Basque Museum, we will set up a visual system in the ten important museums of the Basque Museum, in order to achieve the balancing of women in the exhibition. Three: In 2018, we started the Noka program, the power of a woman who's an filmmaker, and he's trying to make her see what he's doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u4	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Second point on the subject list: "To question, Josu Estarrona Elizdo EH Collector's members made for the president, in public contracts, in direct assignments, for jobs in public companies and public media stations... for being a part of a particular party, or a near one, is an advantage." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. We've been running out of control to the government for two months. From that time forward the sentence of the tram, known as De Miguel, who has been sentenced to several members of the PNV and to the head of the prison, has been shown that the commissions were received by the others. And we have heard of another subject through means of communication, of a state of business: Montai, cover up La Karpa and so on. The others are involved in a number of contracts made with the President. As for the second, we are examining the prescribed documentation, so that we shall not anticipate any sentence. But we can make it clear that at least once the reason based on today's question is to re-establish it. that is to say, the idea of being the advantage of being a part or near part of a particular party in public contracts, in direct assignments. As it is often heard in certain colonies, that the advantage or facility of being the sign of PNV is the chiefest of all. And that's the question we're asking you today, simple and direct: Do you think, Mr. President, that he is justified or founded on that opinion or idea which is so widely spread in our society?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u6	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u7	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Mr. Estarrona, I do not know, as you say, whether this opinion is so spread or set up in society. It will be your opinion, and you will know why you say it. But I don't think that assertion can be proved. It is indeed in the contrary case, and this is shown by all the inquiries which are made to know the opinion of the euscal society. On one side, year by year, euskal organizations have improved, including Eusk0. On the other hand, the effort which has been made to improve the transparency of the Basque institutions is evident. And society accepts and acknowledges it so. The Basque society knows our commitment to transparency and attention. We haven't hidden any problems or denied them. We've faced the problems that have been created. And we've always taken the first step with the real information. However, I'll tell you frankly: ♪ Won't hurt nobody ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ Won't get any good ♪ ♪ Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, look at the way that the investigation is about non-committal... the last Deustobarometer that was published. 75%, in different intensitys, thinks there's a RedMork record, 75%. Maybe your advisors didn't want to notice that. But I think it's a serious investigation beyond the Deustobarometer, you won't doubt that, I think, vox populi. In addition, performances like last week's ones do not help this idea to dissipate. And we refer to the report on Montai, et cetera, by the Director of the Office of Economic Control, a member and ex-director of the PNV. And I explain myself: a company owned by a member of the PNV, which employs members and positions of the PNV, contracts almost exclusively with PNV administrations; the PNV administration requests a legality report from a member and ex-director of the PNV; the PNV member concludes that there are no facets of irregularity in which a PNV administration has hired once a week, over the past five years, a company owned by a member of the PNV who employs members or positions of the PNV. Hori yes. That's the summary. But of course, if that seems normal to you, well, there's the problem anyway. And the same goes for the Ethics Commission of the Basque Government – right, Mr Erkoreka? – which has an absolute majority of senior PNV officials. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Of five members, three are senior PNV positions. The cup, however, is taken by the largest supervisory body in this country, the Basque Court of Public Accounts, whose president already knows who it is and what statements he made in his day. Y es el problema que hay en este país. And that's the reality of this town. And if this be the case, it follows from a system constructed for years: corruptness or bad practice are often protected to make improper ones. And some against what you say, the De Miguel Cause is not an isolated case. It's not an isolated case because we have too many cases to keep talking about isolated cases in our hands. There are a lot of cases already. And they all have two elements in common: one, that those who are involved are the chargers of the EAJ-PNV, or the militants, and the other the cost which has been supposed to us by the citizen. Mr Lehendakari, I do not know whether in this second intervention you are going to make a greater self-criticism and answer the question raised and not deny it. I'm just telling you it's necessary to shake carpets, open windows to ventilate... We have been insisting for a long time on the need for democratic regeneration, because, not because such actions are customary, they are normal. We can't accept them. And in the country worthy that some, at least, aspire to build, have no place in this kind of practice. We've got a lot to go on. Asko dugu gai honetan pausoak emateko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u10	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Estarrona, in the most remarkable litigations you have mentioned, has been a transparent triumph: We've offered all the information we've been asked for and all the documentation. We've been following deep tests. We've accepted and applied our instructions. Mr. Estarrona, you intend to twist reality: mix some things with others, use half-truths, hide information. And it is clear that his only claim is to block action and wear down the government. It's lawful, it's legitimate. I can assure you that this Government will not harm or benefit anyone in any public procurement, nor in the personnel selection processes. I would, however, say that the political action of your coalition, as we have seen throughout this legislature, continues to be fundamentally based, as today, on the ongoing criticism and blocking of the initiatives that the Government is taking, also in this regard, in relation, for example, to the Ethics Committee, to the Code of Ethics. Mr Estarrona, it is legitimate, but with little positive input to your strategy. I see that there is no positive contribution. There is no intention of improvement. All its purpose is guided, lately, by the calculation of its political-electoral profitability. It seems to me that you, in the opinion of the majority of Basque society, are not credible. Demagogy has a price. And Euskadi knows that, Mr. Estarrona. That's all I can tell you. We are not going to harm or benefit anyone. We will act as we have always done in all cases that may be doubtful, being the first to make the information available to this Parliament as well, as we have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask you, Lander Martín with the Congressman of the Podemos, "about singing about the law projects of Christmas." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Lehendakari jauna, in recent weeks the Government has brought new laws to Parliament to be dealt with. In addition, there are many laws that are in this plenary, in this House, in full work. How many of these laws do you expect to pass, taking into account the times of parliamentary procedure? Or, rather, how many months left for this Parliament to work on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u15	Chief of Parliament. Mr Martínnez, I don't control the times of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u17	No. But you control the time of its acquittal. Never has the degree of compliance with the Government's legislative programme been as attentive as that which has been generated today around this question. And yet this is the second time that we have raised this issue with you in a monitoring session, because, if something has characterized this legislature, it is the low level of legislative activity. Last year in May, you assured me that you would bring in 28 projects engaged in the government program. Nine months later, you only brought four laws in the program, and only three more outside the program. Since then only three of the 17 laws which were in the tramite were allowed. A few months from now, you only know how many months, the law will end, and at the moment, of the 28 projects the government has engaged, only seven have been tested. At that time I told him that I had no confidence that the laws that they had not brought were going to come out. But at the moment it does not even seem that those already in Parliament and working can be approved. Everything seems to indicate, Mr. lehendakari, that you are about to throw out the towel. It seems to us a mistake, as I said when asked. We believe that the legislature should continue until the end. Much work remains to be done and there are important laws that Euskadi deserves to be passed. Among them, we must highlight two, which have to do with two of the great challenges that we must face as a society. One, the equality law. There is an urgent need to improve the legal framework for preventing and combating sexist violence, as well as to lay the groundwork for advancing real equality. Women in this country do not deserve to continue waiting for partisan interests. The second is the law of the young. When the absence of choice is violated in the context of the young Basques, and the rights of young men are broken, it is now time to cease to be one of the five autonomys which have no young law in Euskakia. Aukera dugu, halaber, apustu-stabilzimenduak arautzeko akordio batara iristeko eta sexu-abuseen ponentziari amaiera emateko, biktimak aitortu eta ereparatzen dituen lehen legebiltzarra izanik. Elkarrekin Podemos is willing to continue to work for some of the pending laws to move forward and improve the legislative balance. Because we think that's good for Euskadi. It is in your power, Mr. President, as far as the legislative calendar is concerned, whether you appear to be very poor enough to conclude the law, or to maintain important laws, and to continue the settlements and agreements which will enable you to proceed from Euskacaca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, we can all accept the support of a legal team, all of us. Anyway, it doesn't matter, I repeat, to the President, or to the General, or to the General, to accept the laws. It's a job for the law. I don't control the time of the legislature. I mean it. You know, it's about the legal art project, and here it's established, you know, time for every occasion. In order to answer your question, I have examined the exact state of legal projects and legal proposals which are being distributed in this legislature. And, as far as I know, the Parliament is working on the 29 projects or proposals. Some of them are still 2017, still 2017. Well, I'm sorry, sir. I'm sorry, but I don't know. That means admitting some of the projects that are being processed will be difficult, yes. "Atestar las leyes, señor Martíne, corresponde a tumara." Y en est enim momento hay 29 iniciativas en tramitición, pendentes de adción estera. I do not control the times of parliamentary procedure, Mr Martínez. To date, the Government has adopted 17 pre-draft laws and five additional legislative proposals have been processed at the initiative of the groups supporting the Government. Next Tuesday we will approve two new pre-projects: youth and administrative bodies and scales. They will be referred to Parliament. However, let us admit that if there is no greater willingness on the part of the groups, the possibility of approval will be limited. Some initiatives have been under parliamentary discussion since 2017. I have never hidden the difficulties of a minority government, Mr Martínez. The example is in this case: projects approved by the Government that come to this House and have not just been approved by the minority status of the two groups that support the Government and certain dilatory strategies of opposition groups in some cases. In any case, I invoke the social interest of the projects presented here so that, through committed and joint work, groups can agree to the adoption of as many laws as possible, now and in the future. The Government will continue to fulfil its commitment by adopting draft bills in the Council, which are referred to this House for consideration. I consider this to be a positive investment. This is an advanced work which, at the appropriate time, will, in any case, contribute to further progress in the adoption of laws. In this sense, Mr Martínez, not a single day of the legislature can be considered inadmissible, not a single day of the legislature can be considered inadmissible. It is clear that if there is a will, we have many opportunities to continue to agree and approve bills and proposals for legislation, Mr Martínez, in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, Gloria Sánchez Martin, a member of the Socialists of the Society, Chief of Work and Justice, the agreements received at the Society's Table." Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u21	Thank you, President. Madam Counselor. One of the commitments reflected in the Programme of the Government of the Eleventh Legislature, namely the sixth, committed to social dialogue, to encourage collective bargaining and to promote the participation of workers in their enterprises. With regard to the participation and inclusion of workers in enterprises, this Parliament unanimously adopted an initiative calling on the Government to strengthen economic and institutional support for the development of an inclusive and participatory business model. We have been able to confirm that, in the budgets approved for the financial year 2020, there is the corresponding item to respond to this demand. But today I would like to ask you about the other aspect reflected in the sixth commitment of the Government's programme, on what the Basque Government has done to promote social dialogue and concertation in Euskadi. We are aware of the difficulties we have encountered in our Autonomous Community in establishing channels for the development of social dialogue, mainly arising from the discrepancy on the part of some social actors over its scope and content. That and other drawbacks have been successfully overcome in this legislature. The year 2017 started with an agreement of the social partners on the protection of the Basque area of collective bargaining, which in turn was the result of the agreement reached at the meeting of the Social Dialogue Bureau on 22 July 2016. The first meeting of the Social Dialogue Bureau of this legislature was held in July 2017. The meeting laid the foundation for what would be the creation of a permanent body for social dialogue. The formula chosen for the institutionalization of this body was the adoption of Decree 3/2019 of 15 January of the creation of the Social Dialogue Bureau in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Following the adoption of that decree, an ordinary meeting of the Social Dialogue Bureau was held on 11 February 2019, setting out general objectives and a work plan to be developed throughout 2019. The tripartite body composed of Governments, trade unions and business organizations agreed to work in five working groups covering the following subjects: gender equality, coordinated by Emakunde; employment, coordinated by the Department of Employment and Social Policy; vocational training, coordinated by the Department of Labour and Social Security; and industry, dynamically developed by the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure. Our parliamentary group regards as important milestones in the implementation of the Government Programme both the establishment of this permanent body by decree and the formation of these working groups. This same week, the plenary session of the Social Dialogue Bureau met, so I would like to take advantage of this executive control session so that, in her capacity as Chair of the Social Dialogue Bureau, she will give us an account of the most relevant agreements reached in the working groups set up at the meeting on 11 February 2019 that have been moved to the meeting on Tuesday, 4 February.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u22	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mrs Sánchez, as you have rightly said, the adoption in this legislature of the decree giving light to the creation of the Social Dialogue Bureau in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is a very important milestone that brings us closer to the most modern and advanced societies of the European Union, which are characterized by the institutionalisation of tripartite bodies of social consultation. In addition, I can assure you that it has been configured as an absolutely effective tool for developing the work plan and achieving the objectives proposed at the meeting of the Social Dialogue Bureau on 11 February 2019. Due to the urgency of time I will try to synthesize and highlight those most relevant aspects of the work carried out throughout 2019. There have been 25 meetings of the five working groups and, as a result of the dialogue, important agreements, consensus and shared assessments have been reached between the three elements represented at the table. Confebask, Workers' Committees, UGT and the Basque Government have prepared the documents whose contents I point out to you. The equality group is responsible for three, aimed at reducing the wage gap, and concerns strategic relevance and awareness in relation to co-responsible conciliation, the need to overcome gender biases in professional vocations and choices, and to facilitate the formation of equality commissions for the development of equality plans to guide their implementation in collective bargaining. From the area of employment two documents have been provided: one reflects the common position of the social partners on the mid-term evaluation of the Basque employment strategy 2017-2020 and the other agreed on the common basis for the elaboration of a future law on the Basque employment system. There has also been agreement on vocational training, with reference to the integrated vocational training model adopted by Law 4/2018 adopted by this Parliament, and the priorities for better development have been defined. Work in the occupational health group has focused on enhancing preventive culture in small and medium-sized enterprises. To this end, it has been agreed to set up an observatory to design and develop specific plans for SMEs, taking into account their dispersion and the lack of prevention delegates in them. Finally, in the field of industry, it is considered essential to face the challenge of transition and development of industry 4.0 for the Basque industry. It's been considered primordial. It is of paramount importance to reach a Basque social pact for a fair transition to industry 4.0 that fosters a tripartite partnership framework that, from consensus, allows a social and business response with social justice as its reference. The Committee agreed on the principles on which such a Basque social pact should be based. These have been the agreements reached in the working groups that have been validated by the Social Dialogue Bureau this week. My assessment this year cannot be more positive and I am sure that the work to improve the conditions of our productive fabric in all aspects will continue in the coming exercises. For the time being, at last Tuesday's meeting we also approved the work plan of the Social Dialogue Bureau for this year 2020. All I have to thank is all the people who, representing their respective institutions and organizations, have made possible with their efforts this list of achievements, which is the result of the commitment to concertation in the face of confrontation. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u24	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Aranegui Rausea, members of the Popula team presided over the contracts." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours. alonso aranegui I ask you the same question Mr. Estarrona asked you. I'm asking you about the same thing. I understand that this is not pleasant for you and I assure you that it is not pleasant for me either to have to ask you about these issues. Also – I will not say that you surprised me – you are jealous of your image and are also careful to separate the institutional profile you have from that of your party and, therefore, make a separation between what is the PNV and what are your responsibilities at the head of the Basque Government. And we ask him about something that is happening and that is exactly the opposite, and that gives this impression of an extraordinary confusion between the party and the government or of an apparent use of the institutions as if they were organs of his own party. And this is what seems to happen. And it's the facts. You have seen that there is a group of companies, the Montai Group, which is from Aitor Elorza – which is known to you because it is a member of your party and has held various positions – where also work PNV positions, which has received in the last five years 377 contracts worth 2.5 million euros. Many of the contracts come from the department you manage. Except for 11 recruitments, all the others have been finger recruitments, there has been no competition. When the limit was exceeded in order to be able to compete, contracts were broken down. This company has also been contracting with other institutions governed also by the same party, by the PNV. On some occasions very strikingly, as in the case of the company Estali, created just a few days before the opening of Gogora's exhibition, which received 66 contracts. He didn't have a company, no means, no workers. It was created exactly for that purpose, to receive those awards. This is what it looks like, isn't it?, what the data tells us, the facts. Therefore, we are concerned. This group of companies, in addition, is the group of companies that hires the PNV for the organization of its acts and its events. That's why I'm telling you, well, you can say there's no confusion, but it looks like there is a confusion. And this is a matter of concern. And I'm not going to blame you for anything, because, of course, anyone could say, "Hey, how is it possible that everyone in the PNV hires the same company and only contracts with the PNV institutions the same company that works for the PNV? How is that possible? Did anyone give any instructions to the institutions when they are hired by the PNV? Why don't the departments that are run by the Socialist Party have a single job?" Someone could say that. But I, look, I'm not gonna charge you with anything. But I'm going to ask you something. You can't be one more. You can't answer like anyone else. You can't stand someone on the street saying, "Hey, Urkullu was like everyone else." And I'm telling you, I belong to a party that had a lot of problems. We also had a person who organized the events for us. And they also hired him in institutions, because he organized other acts. In the case of the People's Party that was called "Case Gürtel". And I think you need to pay attention to what's going on here. And it's not the facts anymore, but how you react. And if you're really willing not to let these things happen, because they happen in your apartment. That's what I want to hear. Not the answer to Estarrona, which he has done is to throw at him. Hey, don't shoot him. This is happening, and you, if you want us to believe in exemplaryness and transparency, have to exercise them. And don't order a part report, a part person, to cover it all up. And I'm going to help you now. And I will tell you, if you give time to the legislature, this Parliament, in addition to making laws, controls. And therefore, I will give you a chance to investigate this thoroughly here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u25	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, neither pleasant nor unpleasant: to face the situation with absolute seriousness and with absolute rigour. Do they only hire PNV institutions? Man, I would ask you to have a little more memory, even as a parliamentary group that supported another political party other than the Basque Nationalist Party in a government responsibility and that also contracted with this same company, Mr Alonso. Look, the approach used by the Government is the application of legal regulations in public procurement, and all procurement and promoters are obliged to apply these principles. On this issue, the Government's actions have been transparent and rigorous. And if all parliamentary groups, of course, know the contracts, this is thanks to the Transparency Portal, promoted by the Basque Government itself. Yes, Mr. Javier Ruiz de Arbulo, then you will have the opportunity to speak too. Look, it was the Lehendakaritza bodies themselves that requested the Economic Control Office to carry out an analysis of all contracts, and the Government forwarded to this Parliament, to this Parliament, a week ago, a report that accurately addressed public procurement legislation and, in particular, the regulation of minor contracts. This is not a complacent report, as it identifies room for improvement in the implementation of such recruitments and incorporates a number of recommendations; the Government will take them into consideration and implement them through appropriate initiatives. However, this report makes it clear that there has been no illegality of any kind. In any case, the legislation on minor contracts contained in article 118.3 of the State Contracts Act has been controversial and has given rise to contradictory interpretations, to the point that yesterday, yesterday, Mr Alonso, yesterday, the Royal Decree-Law 3/2020 of 4 February came into force, which recognizes – and I literally read it – "it is urgent and necessary for reasons of legal certainty to solve the serious technical problems raised by article 118.3". The new interpretation of this article makes it possible to conclude that the actions carried out by the Basque Government have been stricter and more guaranteeing, even, than those resulting from the previous interpretation. You have insisted on certain contracts, but it must be remembered that the Basque Government has made thousands of contracts of this nature in the last seven years, in which I have the responsibility to preside over it, as have all public institutions, all public institutions. It is clear that administrative errors have been made, we have not denied it. It is clear, however, that when it has been possible to produce, our attitude, the attitude of the Basque Government, has always been to try to correct them and to prevent them from reproducing or producing. We have not hidden, nor have we hidden anything. We assume the need to further improve administrative and control procedures. However, as I have said on other occasions, we call for prudence and weighting in criticisms and accusations, because at no time has any illegal action been detected. In any case, I must remind you that the Government has made this report available to Parliament, the Basque Court of Public Accounts and the Committee on the Code of Ethics. We are prepared to provide all the information and to take the necessary improvement measures, but we do not accept the question of the transparency and rigour of the institution by using biased information, half-truths and unsubstantiated accusations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpologies made to the president by Unai Ui Uruzuno Goldsti EH Collector, in order to ensure the necessity of the citizens of Araba, Bisca, and Gipu." Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u28	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. All this was reflected last week, January 30th, the general strike was performed in the South Basque Country. And this strike has contributed only to hubs, but it has helped to place the concerns of citizens in the center of the political agenda. And in this sense, we believe that this general strike that had been completed last week has been a success, because it put it in the center of the political agenda, as my first colleague Josu Estarron said, in the last Deutobamometer: unemployment, pensions, and needs of work. Work conditions, Mrs. Artola generous and Mrs. San José, conditions of work. I won't be long, good year's start He left all these general strikes on the table. And we're grateful for that. On the other hand, we think you ought to be grateful, because this table of social conversation, which you considered to be a terrible failure during Christmas, at least helped you rescue it. Here, half drowned, that social conversation table in the corner, you had to pull it out, as it were, to put a wall to it. But what was your answer? We saw a letter, Mr. Urkullu, which you sent to the unions. The letter is very clear: in the forms there was no meeting, no scorn, no answer; but in the contents it was also evident. And what did you say? We have no jurisdiction, I can't do anything; since we have no jurisdiction, I can do nothing. That's right, you tried to make some property in the Housing Act where you voted against the Housing Act yourself. And for us, it's all pretty sad, it's pretty pathetic. First of all, it's not all true. It's not all true that you can't do anything. Other governments have been made in Navarro and Catalonia. I think they are the communities with equal jurisdictions. At Navarro a firm will is established in the establishment of pensions for a journey, even in the setting of a minimum pay. The SMI or minimum wages are spoken in Catalan with a firm will to settle in 1,239, but there's nothing we can do here. Well, we say, What do we need to deal with it all? And we accept that we need jurisdiction. We still need some remaining rights. We need a frame. Mr. Erkoreka will soon announce another calendar which should be already full, but, well, the present one and I don't know what. We tried the budgets too, but you said, as you said now: "We can't do anything." We even introduced a law to limit the prices of rent. And I say that because it was one of the other demands of the strike, and you have also given it a negative criterion. Yesterday, we brought in a surveillance initiative that asked for a fund. And you say no to that, too. So, what is it? What's going on, beyond the initiative or the absence of jurisdiction, behind the attitudes of fun and PNV? What is it? Why does that happen? For us, it's this: "Losemeros vascos pieden al PNV moderación en la contrareform." And the meetings with PNV are mentioned. There are no meetings with the unions, including Confebask. If he's with Confebask. And these, Confebas, in public, give you orders because they know you're doing all that right. There was a gun between PNV and A-M-Y-E-M-M-M. Nay, I should say more: You sub-contradicted your economic policies, sterilized them, and left them to themselves. They design it, they rule it, and ye do it properly. There is, therefore, a political-ideological resolution here beyond impotence, beyond the impossibility that it hides itself either in the jurisdiction or in the absence of jurisdiction. There's something you don't want. Nay, I dare say it would be very convenient for you not to have any jurisdiction, to avoid so many measures which are opposed to your ideology. Because I could understand to say, "We have no jurisdiction." But throughout this legislature, as you know, we have been at full discussion on a new political State. And if we have no jurisdiction, and need these rights, I think, it would be the most logical in this dispute to proclaim a new frame, and those new rights we need. But it's not the case. It wasn't EAJ's case. There is no initiative in this articulate or untraditional text you've agreed to. It's not our quantum.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u29	Thank you. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Urzuno, what a mess! Yesterday, at the Congress of the Congress, EH came forward a proposition of the right of demanding or demanding or proclaiming the autonomy-stated jurisdictions. So, do we have them or don't we? You see, by the general strike, how would you want to know that you're going to make such demands as are necessary to ensure the welfare of the people? All my respect for people who participated in the general strike call, all respect. But with the same respect, I may say, the persons who had not joined the general strike had been much more numerous, and the majority had not made a strike. And I respect the social and institutional delegation of the EH Collectors, ELA and LAB, the delegation of the EH Collectors, reflected on in the 18 seats which they fill in this legislature. You protected the general strike, but I suggest you with some humility, the rest of you, it's the everybody else, to respect and confess what the three-quarters of this legislature made. The great majority of the delegation of society did not agree with the strike. So don't talk about the general strike. A little humility I ask you to confess an evidence: I want you to know that I'm gonna have the most social budget in his history. I don't know whether the Spanish Government or the government of Navarre. The agreement of the three political parties which unite two-thirds of this legislature is the budget granted, and the budget was rejected only by the Basque Country and the Poptular Party. Mr. Urruzuno, the representativeness of the opinion on social reality, "Herri beat taupada, arrakasta"... the representativeness of the opinion of social reality is not the heritage of Euskal Herria Bildu. You alone are not the voice of all Basque society, not even the majority. A strike that was intended to be general, and whose result I am not going to qualify, does not give them the patent of course to arrogate themselves to make demands on behalf of the whole of Basque society. I repeat what I said in Basque, all my respect for the people who participated in the call for the general strike, but with the same respect I could say that the people who did not support the general strike were many more, were the vast majority, there were and there are many more reasons not to strike than to call it. In fact, I replied in writing, yes, Mr Urruzuno, I replied in writing to a letter. You have forgotten to mention the letter of the ELA and LAB unions representing the Social Rights Charter of Euskal Herria. I replied in writing and point by point to all the reasons for the so-called claim table The reason of the strike, as the callers accepted it, was therefore not union or social reasons. They were political reasons. It was a political strike in the two autonomy members of the community, in the Eukadin and Navarro, in the communities which have naturally the most advanced social policies in the whole state. Some unions called for general strike to run against the Basque and the Navarre Government. And that's what you said. It's a terrible contradiction. You protected the financial policy and social policy that you had in Navarre budgets, but in the same way you protected a general strike against these budgets and this government. This contradiction is understood if a political party acts according to the political reasons established by certain unions. That's what happened, Mr. Urruzuno. Without presenting themselves to democratic elections, some of the unions which make politics are entirely conditioned by your political resolutions. There's an alternative to that contradiction. The alternative, the social interview. And the best way to strengthen an autonomous Euskadin framework is to use the negotiation and equipment available to Esscal economic and social operators. The best way of strengthening our circle in the Council of Relations, in the Economical and Social Council, is to participate in the Council of Professional Administration, or at the table of Social Dialog, Mr. Urruzuno. You have to sit on the table and talk and don't kick the table so you can scream in the street. "I'll see you on the street," said a syndicate chief. You speak now of conversation and understanding one another. I don't understand how they make one of those past attitudes full of threats and blackmail. I am the first to confess that it is necessary to improve the conditions of labour, especially those of the younger. In fact, the priority of our government is to have more and better jobs and get them. I'm the first to admit that to work is necessary to guarantee that it's the means of buying pensions. By the way, don't forget that this achievement was obtained by the delegation of the Basque Galts at the Court of Madrid, Mr. Urruzuno. You could have proposed and negotiated, but you didn't. You could have suggested this purpose to the new Spanish government, but you didn't, Mr. Urzuno. You're protecting a general strike against the government of the Basque and Navarre, but you gave a white check to the Spanish Government, Mr. Urrugino. I am the first to acknowledge that the working conditions of workers, and especially of young people, need to be improved, and that the most damaging aspects of the labour reform, Mr Urruzuno, must be repealed, that labour reform which the Basque Nationalist Party voted against, as President, in the Congress of Deputies. I am the first to acknowledge that we need to work from policy to ensure that the purchasing power of pensions is maintained. However, you could have raised and negotiated all these demands at the time of the formation of the new Spanish Government, which is with whom it is appropriate, also the questions of State which affect Euskadi, but have not done so. The point is that you here support a general strike against the Basque Government and the Government of Navarre; here a general strike and in Madrid a blank check for the Spanish Government. They have supported a Spanish Government that is committed to social dialogue and you here in Euskadi reject the Social Dialogue Bureau, with the achievements that St. Joseph's Councillor mentioned earlier. A Social Dialogue Bureau that I pushed, and even answering questions from your parliamentary group that, in alliance with ELA and LAB, rejects that Social Dialogue Bureau, in relation to the dispute that arose from a certain agreement. And yet, the Social Dialogue Bureau is moving forward. They have supported a Spanish government that has not raised the interprofessional minimum wage to the 1,200 euros you claim here. By the way, as far as aid is concerned, you could also in the municipalities where you have government responsibility, implement measures in this regard, you could do so. When they gave their votes in Madrid they did not remember the pensioners, Mr Urruzuno, neither the workers, nor the unemployed, nor the Basque framework of labour relations. I find no greater example of contradiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u32	Let's see, in part. See if I can clear up your nahasmena. "Cada visita del señor Erkoe a Madrid me recerda a la visita que al banco, que lo único de regal que dan es un calendario." And I don't despise the calendar. The calendar was approved here by the initiative of the EH Collectors. You're telling us "Welcome State," and the Basque Country has been recruiting for 41 years to have at least one calendar. And that calendar, I'll tell you,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u33	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u34	Let's see, Bakartxo, control the hooligans. A ver, this calendar was to be on December 28, 2018, day and day of innocence. And that's what they do to us, an incredible stupidity. It's a day of innocence that's been going on for 41 years with the state. And we say that it is necessary and that it cannot be used here by election campaign, like a letter coming out for man. It's said, on the other hand, "Greba, against the government." No, it wasn't against the government. It was a proposed strike. And this strike has left some claims on the table that I've just said before. And setting up with strikes isn't a party, it's a party thing you're doing now with the election advance to reflect a little on differences. The strike's good for targets. Ask women of your group. The first feminist strike was all the women in your group where they are just now. Not in the next few years. Why? The strike is good for progress, and that's what's happening. And Mr. Urkullu still says, "We can't, I can't do it, we don't have any jurisdiction." But they're telling us, he's telling me now, just for the moment, to discuss pensions by councils. I can't do it, and I want the council to have my pension. Klaro, I want you guys to stay with AHT. Claro, amigo. Well, let's get this over with. The law, the law, the law, the profession, the profession. We began with the expressions of a vice chief: that he would not send his son there at all. Not at all. What has been done in the profession for four years? It's a disaster. We've lost positions in research, development and innovation. We've lost position in social collapse. I won't repeat it in high-quality employment, which I have told you before, a very good early year. And I don't say that you have to deal with the practice and management of the corporations. But one direction, one direction this town needs to mark, yes. Where is he? Nowhere. In the legislative administration, as Mr Martín has said before, zero patater, Mr. Urkullu. You may say you introduced 29 laws, but zero patater. And it is your care, and it is a sign of the barrenness of the example of this government, because this people give no answer in regard to what is necessary in the future. There's a management here for four years, but there's nothing to spend in those four years. Four years to pass, but nothing for those four years. If, then, this is the object of happiness, but we believe that this people, as it were reflected upon the general strike, requires other answers for the welfare of the people, and indeed for the preservation of the duties of men.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u35	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Uruzuno, your head is so confused that you have confused the law. You've even mixed up legalities in this second part of you when you mention certain people. You remind Mr Erkoreka that every time he goes to Madrid he gets a calendar. Well, that's what you asked for yesterday in the legislative initiative. That's what you've asked for. So how can you refer to Mr Erkoreka, when it is you who have asked for it, when, in your opinion, it is the heritage of what has been agreed here? Mr. Urruzuno, be consistent. I'm the first to confess that social policies can be improved and improved. But I am also the first to demand that these proclamations ought to be directed to the institutions which represent them democraticly. And the right of strike is a fundamental constitutional right, which I defend and respect. Yeah. But to call it Eukadin a general strike is not useful in finding solution to the questions proposed. What did you get out of this strike? With this strike, do not refer to other strikes. With this strike. What did you get out of this strike? Satisfying certain protagonists? Instrumentalize the claims and good faith of people concerned about their pensions? Okay. But in practice, what positive and concrete aspects have been achieved, Mr Urruzuno, with this strike? No progress has been made and the response of the callers is more than the same. More of the same. I don't understand. You ask me how we can answer the social courts who justify this general strike. I'll tell you about the answer you're making: Euscataically handling the most social budget in the entire history. That is to say, $3.900 billion in health investment, 2,700 billion dollars in education, $1,000 in job and social protection, a guarantee of the minimum income for people who are in the most vulnerable condition, a policy of 156 million euros, which encourages social rent, and answers to subjective housing rights. And it's just fun that makes the law that you've got here, and he's confessed to it right here. The investment of 486 million euros in study and development, the politics, work, and family integration, and the recovery of fatherhood and motherly permits, the scientific transition, the struggle against climate change, the defense and economy of biodybertity. These are our answers, Mr. Uruzuno. I don't know if anyone else could answer that. I'm sure the best way to answer the needs of society is not a cry, but a job. It's not the confessional, it's the neighbourhood. It is not the ring of fallen arms, but the row and row together. The proclamations and petitions of the unions are publicly called upon to give an answer in two months. A new blackmail threat. In one year of election, they have the right to call another political strike. Everyone's doing their election campaign as they please. You're still fused on strike. And we worked. At work, too, at the social conversation table, where, this week, I repeat, we have already signed five deals through conversation and negotiation. Five deals. This is the most careful and most effective way of proceeding as a country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "I'm asking you, Mr. Carmelo Barrio Barkio Barroja, a member of the Populak team, "about the proposal that the American Government and the prisoner of the United States have made to the president about the approach of the Central Government." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours. bario barroja Over the past few years, we have received a lot of reports, of all kinds of documents from the Secretariat for Co-existence and Human Rights in the development of their plan. Many, many documents, many. Some wider, others smaller, longer, shorter... A lot. But this time it has been through the media like Lehendakaritza of the Basque Government made public the announcement of the proposal to the Government of Pedro Sánchez regarding the approach to the Basque Country of more than 200 prisoners of ETA and, it can be said, a new reorganization of the prison policy in our prisons and in those of our environment, in relation to the plan of the Basque Government. Without regret, without collaboration with justice and without taking any steps on reintegration routes, the approach of the executive of Urkullu is the regrouping of the criminal group. And that is why we ask the councillor what reasons have led the executive chair to request the regrouping of ETA prisoners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u38	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours. Presidents of the lordships. Mr. Barrio, for the time being I'm still a lehendakari, more than a counselor. In any case, the Basque Government has proposed before and now approaching prisons close to its family environment. Before and now. A proposal aligned with prison and constitutional legality and which is committed in our Government Programme. In March 2017, I submitted to President Mariano Rajoy a proposal for the relocation of prisoners and prisoners in ten prisons located less than 250 kilometres from Euskadi. In October 2018, I submitted this same proposal to President Pedro Sánchez. Since March 2017, the total number of prisoners or prisoners has been reduced by approximately 20%, and now there are around 210 people in Spanish state prisons belonging to ETA or convicted of belonging to or collaborating with ETA. In this context, the updating of that proposal aims to prepare for relocation to seven centres. I'm talking about approach, I'm talking about relocation. I'm not talking about regrouping and I'm not confused with concepts, Mr. Barrio. You ask me for the reasons for putting forward this proposal and I will quote five: the full confirmation of the unilateral, irreversible and definitive dissolution of ETA; the substantial decrease in the total number of prisoners linked to ETA; the finding that removal does not encourage reintegration, as has been demonstrated over more than three decades; the growing misunderstanding of Basque society regarding the maintenance of removal policies, the only effect of which is to exacerbate the suffering of families; and the fact that taking this decision means complying with the law, Mr Barrio. More specifically, comply with article 12.1 of the General Organic Prison Act. The Basque Government, in line with prison law, defends, on the one hand, the rapprochement and, on the other, considers that the recognition of the unjust damage caused is a necessary step in the reintegration processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u40	Thank you, Mr. Lehendakari. You know that law enforcement is what Prison Institutions are doing, what governments are doing in relation to dispersion. I do not have to remind you of the endorsement of the dispersion that the European Court of Human Rights has given in repeated pronouncements. So, in that sense, you have to make it clear, Mr. lehendakari. Let's see, for the record, is it a plan of the Basque Government? is it a plan of yours? is it a plan of Mr Fernández? is it a plan of the PNV? Because your government partner didn't know this plan that you're going to transfer to President Sanchez. I didn't know him. Besides, he said he hadn't studied it, he didn't know it. Whose plan is this? Because the plan is new. It's new because of its dimension and the proposal, not only of rapprochement – I say again – because it's the regrouping of band members into a small group of prisons. From about 40 prisons to seven. That is a plan to regroup a group that has not been separated from the criminal history of the terrorist gang and that also functions as a unitary and organized group, because that is so. This group of united criminals acquires danger and possibilities of criminal organization at the time of the grouping. He knows that. That's what the police know, and that's what they've said in reports. I mean, that has to be taken into consideration in your plans, too, doesn't it? That group of united criminals acquires that danger. And besides, we're talking about killers, some multiple killers, who also lead that collective. I mean, that grouping is dangerous in itself. They have not repented, they have not assumed that killing innocent people was wrong and they have not collaborated with justice in unsolved crimes of the commands to which they belonged. Moreover, this has already been pointed out by the most important associations of victims of terrorism. Look, I think we're in an election profitability, Mr. lehendakari. I mean, you're insatiable, lehendakari, in the Basque Nationalist Party: by the vote of the abertzale left, by the vote. We're in pre-election and that's why they're going. What is the topic to navigate in the Bildu squid at this time? Well, ETA prisoners. Well, come on, the ETA prisoners on the electoral agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u41	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, believe me if I tell you that I have always thought that this issue does not yield electoral results. In any case, you talk about regrouping, dissolution, distance, rapprochement, and mixing concepts, as I also said in a note published 15 days ago. I invite you to think, not only about the rapprochement that took place in the time of José María Aznar as President of the Spanish Government, but also about the considerations that Mr Aznar himself could make in relation to the terrorist organization ETA, but also about the reflection on what has brought away. What brought the distance? Has it facilitated any impact on the changing strategy of people in prisons? Look, all you do is proclaim the rule of law. Well, neither the law nor any sentence provides for removal as part of the sentence. On the contrary, the law states that, to the extent possible, prisoners must be placed in prisons close to their social environment. Prison policy in the Spanish State needs to update its approach. And what we are proposing is the same thing that the French Government has done with the support of the associations of victims of terrorism to which you have referred. The approach should not be conceived as a prize for prisoners, but as a measure to alleviate an unfair situation for families and to promote legal processes of reintegration. Basque society does not understand that there is no solution to this issue when it has full legal support and is a question of humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To question, the members of the legislature of the Popula, Javier Ruiz de Arbulus, Euquila, a member of the Popula team, concerning the political responsibilities following the sentence of De Miguel." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Lehendakari, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mr Lehendakari, last December, the Second Section of the Provincial Court of Álava issued a judgment that you are sure you know well, the 305/2019, which put an end, for the moment, to the so-called "Michael case", the biggest corruption case we have known in this land, in Euskadi. Not the first, unfortunately, but the oldest. It fully affects senior officials of the Administration appointed by the Basque Nationalist Party and senior officials of the Basque Nationalist Party itself. The factual account of this sentence repeats a consideration on several occasions and does so especially when it speaks of the facts on which the offence of unlawful association is based. He says that it was high officials of the Basque Nationalist Party who decided among them to set up a network of companies to take advantage of the political contacts and political ancestry they had over other members of the Basque Nationalist Party, the positions they themselves held in public administrations and the relations with other positions of the Basque Nationalist Party in various institutions, rigging contracts and getting bits. This is something that is repeated throughout the sentence. That is why I ask you, lehendakari, what political responsibilities will the Basque Nationalist Party assume for these facts? During all these years we have been hearing that there will already be a sentence and we will see what responsibility must be taken. The legal responsibilities lie with the courts. This isn't a court. I ask you about political responsibilities. I tell you, it wasn't lehendakari then, but then I did preside over the Basque Nationalist Party. And I say this to you because, since these facts were known, various committees of inquiry have been initiated, both in this Parliament and in the General Councils of Álava, and your party has tried to torpedo the action of these committees of inquiry, and your party has always voted against the conclusions of these committees of inquiry. The facts are perfectly clear and are currently supported by that court ruling. And it's something we all know, because those facts were true. I understand that that has a political responsibility. I would like to know why all those people who have been sentenced to very severe penalties and all those positions – squad presidents, mayors... – who participated in those events never took off the phone and called Sabin Etxea, to say, "Here's something going on. Crimes are being committed here." In my personal opinion, Mr Lehendakari, because they thought that was the normal functioning of the party and the institutions. Therefore, I ask you, lehendakari, who and when will you take political responsibility for these so grave facts that you have defiled all our institutions, beyond the fact that you have asked for forgiveness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I have to answer for what I represent. And I have to point out that my position, in this case, has been known since the first day: I made it public when I held the responsibility to be president of the Basque Nationalist Party, on April 1, 2010, only two weeks after this case was heard. I will repeat it at the end of last year, on 17 December, nothing more to be known about the sentence. On December 24, in a published article. And on December 27, at the reception ceremony for Basque society in Lehendakaritza. I repeat it today, as an answer to your question: I repudiate all cases of corruption. My commitment to transparency and ethics in public and political management is total. This is a basic principle, and I consider it a public duty. My responsibility at that time was to act from day one with speed, clarity and constancy. At that time it was not the usual, and we did. And we've kept it till today. And we'll keep it. At that time, and I have always been concerned, I was concerned, I continue to be concerned about the interpretation that the individual performance of certain individuals, no matter how high a number of such individuals may be, could be linked to the performance of a political party with an impeccable trajectory. My responsibility, our responsibility, is to accept what the courts say, and to reiterate what that sentence says, even if it is not firm. What that sentence says, even if it's not firm. These are particular behaviors. My public responsibility has been to reprimand this attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u48	Gracias, president. All these opinions of yours have already been heard, but I want you to take a step forward. Because it seems to me that such impeccable trajectory
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, you intend to entangle what are absolutely different cases, before you have spoken of bites and now you refer to the public contracts on which I have already given all the explanations; then, we are entangled. And I remind you that I have apologized to society for an attitude that is reprehensible and contrary to the ideal we defend. Let us respect the justice that you so invoke, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo. We respect people, all of us. All of them. Also to the 11 who have suffered a calvary over ten years and have ended up being acquitted of all responsibility. Everyone, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo. We respect people's labour rights as well, as long as there is no firm ruling that questions these rights. Let's respect justice. And I repeat what the sentence says: "We meet before individual behaviors." The D.A.'s office said so. And the judgment itself concludes that there is no link between that individual behavior and the responsibility of any political party or institution. We have acted with political and public responsibility since the first day. Almost ten years ago, the necessary precautionary measures were taken to remove those convicted today from their positions of public responsibility, should they have it. Also of any internal responsibility, in case they have it, in the Basque Nationalist Party, whose presidency I held at the time. A party that had, at that time, its statutes, its procedures, which were modified – all of them – as a result of those facts. And this is acting with political and public responsibility from the very beginning. From the point of view of the responsibility of the Government, the legal services have been involved in the case since the first day. And our aim has been to defend the public interest and restore the economic damage that could have been caused to the General Treasury of the Basque Country. And that is going to remain our commitment, with all the words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Cristina Macazaga Saánz together with the congressman of Podemos to the president, a politician for the PR for the public contract." Mrs Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u52	Thank you, CEO. Good morning, President. I'm sorry to bother you, but I think the question is going to be familiar to you and to a greater or lesser extent you've tried to answer it this morning. According to what I have heard, it is not yet clear to me who decides the finger contracts in the Basque Government, whether the Government or the PNV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Don't worry, Mrs. Macazaga, I don't get bored, and I'm also about to help you with your insights. The only guideline followed by the Basque Government in its contractual action is the application of the existing rules on public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u56	Yes, thank you. Thank you, President. I have the feeling, Mr Lehendakari, that the Basque Government is following the same strategy that it designed with the fraud of the doped OPEs and that they are now in the denial stage. Look, they've started defensive with a partial report. The Montai Group's finger contracts have jumped to public opinion on the suspicion that they are part of another client network of its party, and to this end they instruct a member of the PNV to make a report on a PNV provider, whose sole administrator is the PNV, its workers are public PNV positions and as a Chinese bazaar to the PNV government departments. I would only need to be biased, and it is, Mr Lehendakari; your report, which you are bragging about today in this plenary, is incomplete. There are many contracts missing that thin the amount, you yourself have provided them to us through my request for information and yet they do not appear in the ECO report. He has mentioned transparency and rigour and they have begun to cover it up. Where is rigour and transparency when on your Transparency Portal does not appear half of the invoices of Lehendakaritza, nor half of the invoices of Gogora, no invoices of Hazi, nor any of EITB? Is this what you call rigour and transparency, Mr. Lehendakari? At the moment you are not giving us confidence, nor are you credible, if what you say does not conform to reality. For the time being, there is every suspicion that there is another client case related to his party, which seems to be the one who decides who he hires in his Government. Again we find that in Euskadi to get a chance you have to have a card. Who decides in Lehendakaritza to hire the companies of the Montai Group, Mr Lehendakari, the PNV, Haritz Solupe? How can a Montai group company, which is hired to coordinate "Gogora square", such as Denok, have the ability to decide who to hire the tent, who to counterweight, assemble, dismantle, who to land or air conditioning and who to always be the companies of the Aitor Elorza group? What guideline does Lehendakaritza, Mr Lehendakari, set for a number of companies to be hired to contract out? Because the decree you mentioned here has been in effect for two days, not seven years. The sum of all their broken contracts exceeds by more than 15,000 euros that limits the law. Also, by the way, there are unique contracts that exceed that amount, that is, they violate the law. There are contracts for the same work that in the previous law cost 18,000 euros plus VAT, and we are currently saving 3,000, not to mention the stratospheric prices of the company Montai, prices that involve an extra cost whose damage is suffered by the public era, I do not know for whose benefit. Mr Lehendakari, Montai, a company whose object is the organization of events, has a good chollo with you, it is like a Chinese bazaar in which you can find everything, as soon as it equips you with tents, almost always subcontracted, as it equips you with mattresses, meats, air conditioning or cameras with tripod, even arranges computers, you have a chollo, but Montai also has it. Mr Lehendakari, we have enough evidence to show that things have not been done right. Covering it is not transparency nor the antidote to fight against clientelism. If you don't find out, we'll have to be others who lift the veil, it's not all worth asking for forgiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Macazaga, with absolute peace of mind. The only guideline followed by the Government, I repeat, the Basque Government in its contractual action, is the application of the existing rules on public procurement. In the case of minor contracts, what you call direct recruitment, the recruitment of the Basque Government is limited to applying the current rules, and has thus been credited in the report of the Office of Economic Control to which I mentioned earlier, and I have acknowledged, and I reiterate, the existence of some procedural deficiency, as I have also done before. However, the application of the legal regulations has not been questioned in any way, and, as I said earlier, the royal decree-law that came into force yesterday – it came into force yesterday – ratified it more routinely; in no case can we talk about illegality. You have had access to this report and have been able to see the interpretative contradictions that have arisen in the implementation of the legislation with regard to minor contracts. The Office of Economic Control, in the light of the latest standards and opinions published, makes a number of recommendations for improvement. Some recommendations that, I would insist, we will analyse for their application to the entire public administration. I will tell you more: the arguments in the report of the Office of Economic Control have been ratified by the recent amendment of the regulation of minor contracts, and this amendment has been motivated by reasons of legal certainty in order to solve the serious technical problems of the regulation in force until today. By the way, referring to the Office of Economic Control and to that comment that leaves a veil of suspicion – in a way that has also been written in the media – you have questioned the Director of the Office of Economic Control of the Government and I will tell you that in the drafting of the report, public officials from the intervention, audit and accounting services have intervened. In addition, the director of the Office of Economic Control is also a career officer and has held the position of head of intervention for 30 years, and has never, ever, compatible the position of director with any position of responsibility in the Basque Nationalist Party. The Government has taken the initiative and we have assumed the need for continuous improvement. And it is the will of this Government to analyse and implement the implementation of improvements in public procurement, taking into account the recommendations and suggestions made in the report of the Office of Economic Control. I have publicly acknowledged that there is room for improvement in the development of this administration's contractual performance. I am aware that this statement could be extended to all public institutions, including European ones. No one is perfect, no public institution is perfect when it comes to hiring, as can be clearly seen in the reports of the public accounts courts. Our attitude, then, has not been reactional or conformist, our attitude is constantly improved. The will of this government is to apply proper means of public contract in accordance with the recommendations and suggestions made in the report of the Economical Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interrogation by Mari Carmen lópez de Ocariz Lopeunin of the Populative Groups of Laws for Economics, and for the Chief of the Sub-Dectorial Divisions, in order that the Presidents of the Basque Autonomy should be a necessary vacation against Anger." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u60	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Counsellor, I am asking you on behalf of the People's Group about the events that occurred in our autonomous community in early December 2019, when we learned that the Microbiology Centre had ratified that the man who entered the Barakaldo Cruces Hospital after suffering a cat bite was infected with rabies. By the three days of this confirmation, we knew that the man infected with rabies had passed away. It was, well, quite clear that the advanced state of the disease made its recovery impossible, as feared, and that the injury had begun to necrosis and it was late to prevent death. In the face of this infection, rapid action is essential. The protocols are the ones that first warn. The man who died at Cruces was violently attacked by a rabid cat in August in Morocco, where the disease is endemic. Infections that were considered to be eradicated or at least controlled are returning due to increased mobility of people and animals between Europe, Eastern and North African countries, where rabies is a prevalent disease, particularly in rural areas. In our autonomous community, the competent administrations in the field of health, animals and domestic animals are the Basque Government and the three outlaws, and are responsible for compliance with the legislation. Veterinary schools in the Basque Country have been insisting for some time on the need to introduce compulsory vaccination against rabies in the Basque Autonomous Community. I remember perfectly when in the villages we were told for vaccination. We passed the proposed day and time for the vaccination of dogs against rabies, and we all came, because it was something very internalized and that gave us a lot of safety and tranquility, because rabies is a disease that has left behind. Many people have died and left a legacy in the people who have seen or suffered in the environment. No one was missing. This arrival of the veterinarian, in addition, helped to review the animal in general and do a health check. The Basque Country, together with Catalonia and Galicia, are the autonomous communities where it is not legally compulsory to vaccinate against rabies. In the rest of Spain it is mandatory. In other European countries, except in France and Belgium, it is not compulsory. Animal health experts point out that the issue of rabies needs to be addressed from the same point of view as it applies to human diseases, in which the diseases considered eradicated are resuming, precisely by lowering vaccination levels. In the Basque Country, 30% of the 110,000 dogs surveyed 70% of the canine population should be vaccinated. Without alarm, but in the face of an objective reality, we are talking about a public health problem. We cannot forget that rabies is also a deadly disease for humans and that among the animals that can transmit it, in addition to dogs, the most common pet, is the cat, is the bat, which can bite other animals, is the ferret. Faced with the death of this person in Barakaldo from rabies, Osakidetza said: "The protocol of epidemiological surveillance of Osakidetza points out that, although this case is an isolated case, every year there are reported cases of rabies in European travellers from endemic countries, as a result of the lack of information". This fact should draw our attention. I was very drawn to the attention that Osakidetza put this in writing and didn't say anything else. That caught my attention, because I think we need to report. And if you have to report, you have to do an information protocol. And I haven't seen him in this case. The professor of animal health at the Faculty of Veterinary at the University of the CEU – he is also at the Academy of Medicine of Valencia and also at the Veterinary Academy of Murcia – he said the following: "Rabies is currently considered to be an emerging disease worldwide, due to the emergence of new variables of the virus and also due to the entry, also, of animals less than three months without vaccination, that come from countries of the European Union and third parties with endemic rage, increasingly usual practice". Today we can order a dog online and it arrives, and it has no control. To this fact is joined the intense traffic of people and animals that continuously pass and move through our country and throughout the European territory. Our autonomous community is at the heart of North Africa and Europe. We are territory that we welcome people from all over the world, there is a very wide mobility of people, with very different customs and habits. We have some concepts of health and hygiene, which probably not everyone has, not for nothing, but because they are their habits and customs. In Spain, one of these variants is circulating in insectivorous bats. These new variants can be transmitted and produced rabies pictures, both in pets and humans, resulting in clinically indistinguishable pictures of the one produced by the classical rabies virus. This makes efforts to eliminate infection in domestic animals significantly complicated, and that the vaccination of pets is even more important if it can be. As I told you, this is not what the People's Group said, it was said by a person whom I consider to be an expert and who participates in many forums as an important expert; an expert whom I assume has no interest in alarming. And I say this because the other day, in the debate at the General Councils of Álava, the spokesman for the People's Group, which was the proposer of a motion, he was accused of being alarmist. And I think we're not alarming, we're putting a reality on the table, and we want it to be approached with as much control as possible. Our group would like to know, Madam Counsellor, what is the Government's purpose in dealing with the petition? –which has already announced the College of Veterinarians of the Basque Country – that the rabies vaccine is mandatory in the Basque Country. We'd like to know. I have been able to read in some information that some people tend to give economic reasons so that the rabies vaccine is not compulsory in the Basque Country, and I would like to know whether the Government also shares this view. And, if you share it, if you could explain to us what those economic reasons are, that we can't understand. There's a data I'd like to give, and it's that the most important global source of rabies in humans comes through uncontrolled rabies in dogs. And they also said somewhere: "Well, you have to keep records of other animals as well." But there is a figure, which is that in 99% of cases it is produced by dog bite. There are other animals, but 99%... That is why we understand the importance of complying with the rules we have adopted, because, apart from the vaccine, yes or no. And, counselor, there are problems with the records, they don't work well. It is an important part of having a register and a census, as the law says. And I'd like to know if you're acting on the follow-up committee that this decree provides for. Because you, the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, at the General Councils of Álava, presented as an amendment to the initiative of the People's Group – and that was what was approved – creating a working table between the competent institutions – Basque Government and deputies – and technicians in this field. But this is what this follow-up table is: it is the three parliaments and the government, and it says "to incorporate experts, according to the theme." Which means I'm out of place. If we have a table and we're going to create another table... We understood that the Government's approach is to reduce the organs, because there are too many bodies of participation and control, and, having one table, you propose to create another table. And I'd like this term clarified to me, because I'm not done understanding it. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u61	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments and congressmen. I won't repeat several of the technical subjects Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz has mentioned, because I think she has explained them very clearly, but I shall explain a little, in what way we are in Basque and our attitude. I was saying, Mrs López Ocariz, that I am not going to repeat the technical argument that you have given because, obviously, it has been prolific and I have nothing more to add to it. If I should like to point out that in Euskadi we have been without compulsory vaccination against rabies for more than ten years, and there have been no cases or suspicions against this disease; no cases or suspicions. The epidemiological situation in Euskadi has not changed at all in recent years with regard to the vaccine, since vaccination was established not to be compulsory. That is to say, from that moment on we are in the same situation, without any case and without any problem. With regard to wildlife, foxes, bats, to which you also referred, there has also been no case or suspicion. And every year in Euskadi, approximately 40% of the canine census is vaccinated on a voluntary basis – according to the data available to us. It is true that the autonomous communities bordering Euskadi, both Navarra and La Rioja, Castile and León and Cantabria, do carry out a compulsory vaccination. But we have also analysed what is happening in Iparralde, a neighbouring and bordering territory with us and have maintained various contacts with veterinarians in the French field, in the Bayona area. And in general, there is no mandatory vaccination there either. And, therefore, we have two really different situations: a border area that does not vaccine and a border area with compulsory vaccination. At the state level, we also do not have an establishment, a law, or a situation that obliges us to perform certain actions. That is to say, there is no single pattern on the part of the Ministry of Agriculture that obliges us to be vaccinated, nor does it exaggerate us from it. If we analyze the canine census in Euskadi, it is controlled, registered and regulated by the application of the Register of Identification of Company Animals, as you said, which depends on the Directorate of Agriculture and Livestock of the Basque Government. As for the movement of risk travellers from Europe and Africa, which are our two neighbouring areas, the Spanish state being also Europe, we talk about those coming from the border with France, with Iparralde, who pass through Euskadi in the summer, well, yes, a specific analysis has also been made. And it is noted that, among travellers from and to Morocco and other African countries, the percentage of travellers travelling with animals or pets, especially dogs that are likely to transmit the disease, is, of course, scarce or nil. This type of pet trip is much more focused on those coming from northern or central Europe. However, it is true that travellers who may come from Africa, such as the case you mentioned, which comes from Morocco, may bring that disease or may be susceptible to that disease. If we also look at what has happened in the Spanish State in recent years, but we have already gone back to 1978, there has been only one case of anger, only one. Therefore, we also need to consider what is happening right now throughout the State to analyze what our action is going to be. However, we are aware of the concern of the College of Veterinarians of the Basque Country, which is sending us an increasing alert. And I'm not gonna talk about the alarm, I'm gonna talk about the alert. A warning of what may be happening or what we may be facing. Because still, as you said, there are many areas in which the disease is endemic and at the moment there is a lot of transit of travelers, increasingly, who can bring the disease themselves, but, above all, they can come with animals, and perhaps, despite having to do those border controls, they are not being carried out in the proper way. Therefore, we have the criterion of the autonomous communities that are mandatory vaccinations, there is no single criterion on the part of the ministry and we also have the criteria of the French State, but at the same time we rely on that warning that the College of Veterinary Officers is launching. What we propose is to make a very specific analysis, taking into account all the new situations that may be occurring, with the data that we have, both the Basque Government and the parliaments, and with all the corresponding technicians, but specifically with the College of Veterinary Officers of the Basque Country, which allows us to take a decision, not only at this moment in which, despite this alert, we have no suspicions or cases, but I hope that it will allow us to establish an operating pattern in the coming years, which may be the establishment of compulsory vaccination. And, of course, if you consider it, we will. We are not analysing any type of economic variable in this case. We are only talking about human health and health. In that regard, we are also working closely with the Department of Health, from the point of view of public health. And we try to establish, I want to insist, in a rigorous way, the criteria that allow us to work, in the coming years, with the competent institutions, but also taking care of that collective that we believe they are experts, that they have different data to those we manage and to those that we want to listen to and care for in a specific and, I insist, rigorous way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u64	Thank you, Counselor. Indeed, we also do not close to compulsory vaccination alone. I have a memory of when it was mandatory vaccination and believe me it gave us a lot of peace of mind. And, in fact, we continue to vaccinate because it gives us a lot of peace of mind. But even if vaccination is voluntary, as Osakidetza said, I think we need to report. For a very simple thing. If we have a dog here, but I don't know in which autonomous communities it's mandatory, if I move with that dog without vaccinating that community, it's illegal. That fact is so everywhere I move. So, I think there are times when, well, I give a dog Then there are the owner's obligations. As I was saying, does the owner of a dog know what his obligation is, if he has to go to the city hall to register, what he has to do in the face of an aggression, for example, that causes injuries, if we have to control it... Counselor, I think there's a lot of work to be done here. Not only vaccination, which I believe in that with teams of experts and with data you can move forward, but you also have to say what happens. Similarly, voluntary vaccination would increase that percentage, which WHO says would be good if they were vaccinated. So, counselor, I think we have an important field of work. At the moment, both the law and the decree implementing the obligations have very low compliance, and I believe that measures are needed to activate all those controls that we have given ourselves. There are also sanctions, but who sanctions, how? The city council has no capacity to sanction or monitor. I mean, there's obligations, but there's no means. There's no means, no more control, no more information. I believe that certain data should be incorporated into all this information from the health area. We also believe that there must be coordination with the Department of Health for certain protocols, so that the owners have more visible, more visual information than can be found in a decree, so that they have information about what to do with the attacks, where to go, how to go. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, we will put forward a constructive motion, in order to delve a little deeper into these aspects which we believe are weak today. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Łódź de Ocariz. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u66	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs López de Ocariz, for starting at the end, I thank you for the constructive tone, and I agree with you: perhaps some owners are more aware than others, but it is true that on many occasions we are seeing dogs proliferate as pets and not always with adequate responsibility. Therefore, as relevant as awareness and information are on many occasions the modes of behaviour, both in this case, talking about rabies, and in vaccination. We will therefore take this as a relevant challenge and work on it in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "Interra, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, a member of the Podemos, a member of Economics, and the chief physician of the Sub-Separations, is the third line of the subway between Sarrate and Galaka's Hospital." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. Mrs. Tapia, I don't know how many times we've been through the 5-foot line here in the Parliament and outside. We've always asked to set up the project, to keep the word the institutions gave us. The last time was in April 2018. We introduced a motion, and he didn't go any further, but I don't know why or why, you've made a plan a year ago. You're Mr. Rementeria and you're the one who planned it. In the proposal you, Mr Rementeria and you – I will show you the proposal, which did not come to the project and which I hope will become a project – you proposed not a five-metre line, as has been repeatedly requested from our group and from other groups, but the deviation from the Euskotren line, from the current Euskotren line passing through the outskirts of Galdakao, from Etxebarri or from Basauri to Galdakao, passing through the Galdakao hospital. There are issues of that proposal that are interesting. It is interesting that you clarify it – and hence the object of this inquiry – because we have doubts as to whether this project is the one that needs Galdakao, whether it is the one that needs the region or not. Our group and other groups have always argued that the five-meter line was the best, but you defend the deviation from the Euskotren line. So, what we have to see is whether that diversion responds to the needs that today have that municipality and that region. First of all, there is the connection of this possible deviation with the metro that reaches Etxebarri and with the metro line three that also passes through San Antonio and goes towards Txurdinaga and Otxarkoaga. Will the construction of the Sarratu intermodal be maintained? That's the first question I wanted to ask you. The second question is that in the proposal, in the statement of intentions that you presented in 2019, you only pick up two stops: that of Galdakao and that of the hospital of Galdakao. And the question I ask you is: two neighborhoods like Bengoetxe and Aperribai, which at the time were, had service in the five-meter line project, and the nearby polygons in the area, are they going to have any service through a specific stop? Yes or no. The third issue is the phases of the project. You presented an idea that had a first phase, to be built between the hospital and Galdakao, and a second phase, between Galdakao and Sarratu. Really, by the amount of the project, is it necessary to do so in two phases? Can't it be done in a single phase that answers and solves from the beginning? Because knowing that this comes from 2006, that is, that we are already 14 years late, plus what we can add to the realization of the project, more than you find money, and the opportunity to do so, and that there are no elections by means, we can go to another 15-20 years, and if we stay in the first phase and do not do the second, you will tell me what solution that is, won't you? In fact, in Galdakao one of the main problems and one of the main social conflicts has been that of the shuttles that they have to use from Galdakao to Etxebarri, where they stop, where they do not stop, who they carry and who they do not carry. And then, on the other hand, there is a question that is accessory but no less important for the development of that region: if you deviate from the Euskotren line, what happens to the line that remains in disuse? If it's in disuse. What future plans do they have for that area? Because that line had two steps at a very important level, the Urbi pass and the Ariz pass, along with a beach of tracks. I think Basauri has looked into that area for possible urban development. Of course the Urbi step should be eliminated and I think it is not. And the question is whether these actions are going to be addressed along with a possible Euskotren detour or not. And, well, as long as I'm not longer, I'm waiting for your explanations. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u69	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours. Chiefs of Economics Developments and Sub-structions It is true that we have often mentioned the fifth line, or the line of meters, and the width of the yard. And I think we're still talking. But the year before, we said something important about those who were known as the first fourth and fifth lines, we shall hereafter speak of the fourth, and also of the 14th; that we must use the lines as best we can, by improving them and giving them better services. So that's our commitment, and that's what it will be. I believe that the commitment of both the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry and the Basque Government to 50% of the expenditure on Metro Bilbao should be highlighted. It is a commitment, of course, that has materialised over the years and that has constituted very important investments, both online and online, of which we still have 282 million to pay. Moreover, as regards line three, it has now been called "line three", but it has also been an adaptation of the Euskotren line, and in that sense I want to put it in value, because I believe that no one doubts that line three is a metro service, even though it is taking place on an improvement and an adaptation of a Euskotren line. They have been very important improvements and services and, today, of course, they are being an undeniable success. And in that line we want to continue. That's why we made that reference. And in that sense it was the commitment that we made and, of course, from what we also talked about in this House and from other actions and other conversations with the Bizkaia Foral Diputation, as well as with the relevant municipalities, a new informative study was started for a railway connection linking Galdakao and the hospital of Usansolo, called "line five" or whatever you want, which took care of in the first half of 2019, but taking into account, above all, that we intended to unite existing lines. That is, line three developed, as you mentioned, and then we could be able to connect Durangaldea with your reference hospital, which is the Galdakao hospital. Technical assistance began its work in August 2019 and foresees a 12-month work. What is the purpose of this work? I remember. The aim is, of course, to make maximum use of that railway network, to also structure the territory of Bizkaia, and not only through a five-way metro line that reaches Galdakao, but we are able to reach Galdakao, connect with the hospital and connect with all Durangaldea. That is the objective of this new informational study, capturing as many travelers as possible and giving the best possible service, whatever color line it is. Let's forget the color of the line and give the best possible service: a metro service with the proper frequencies and services. We are currently working on a range of different alternatives, different solutions, but I can do a first analysis of what the result is. In that presentation with the deputy general of Bizkaia we were advocating because phase I was the connection from Durango to the hospital, because we were giving service to that hospital and we knew – and we know today – that the arrival is being problematic, because of the number of private vehicles moving around. But a first detailed analysis of what this first phase would entail leads us to say that we would have an important penalty in terms of time for those people living in Galdakao who would like to get to Bilbao, because they would have to go back, to Bedia and take the main lane again. And, in addition, a traffic is generated that can give rise to problems, since the road is a single way and that can question the frequencies that we intend to give. Therefore, if we look at that situation together with the fact that we are producing very important traffic in the Basauri area, as you have already mentioned, this leads us to say today – although it is not finished – that it does not seem most appropriate to start with that phase. Therefore, what we are considering – and I hope that the information study will give much more details and with much more rigour – is that we would start right at the other end, through the area of Sarratu to reach Galdakao. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The twelfth point in the theme list. The question is, Eva Lopez de Lariyabe... Excuse me, is it the second way back? Oh, you didn't? Sit down. I'm sorry, I gave you five minutes. You've got five more minutes. All five minutes. [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u71	Well, I don't need all five minutes, but I want to say: it does not seem that this first stage of service, which was planned, is suitable to the rate of service. Moreover, travellers would have a kind of delay, and perhaps they would be much more competitive to do what they do now on the bus. We hope our informative investigation will say this, so we'd start from Sartu to Galda. You asked me about Bengo home and the station in Aperribai to see what's going on. Well, we're also considering those stations during the alternal examination. So I think I can say today that it's not the first stage we chose, but that we're looking at Aperribei and Bengo House as well. Finally, a single detail. You told me that everything could be done at the same time, perhaps, for the economic amount of the project. Well, the economic amount of the project with the data that we are handling today, phase one and phase two, the truth is that it is a very important amount: between 400 and 500 million euros at the level of detail that we are at the moment. Therefore, that leads us to say that doing so in two phases could be the most appropriate solution. However, in those six long months of work that we still have left for technical assistance, we will resolve all these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u73	The truth is that, Madam President, even if you are, it seemed unfair to me to keep half as interesting as possible. Well, I, Mrs Tapia, am glad that you have reconsidered some of the issues. Indeed, as you say, start at the end I am surprised at the cost you mention of 400-500 million, because at the time I had a cost of around 180-200 million. But, well, if it doubles the same, we'd have to see a little bit of where that comes from. I don't know, because you haven't mentioned it, if it includes accessory performances like steps to level and so on. Because, of course, that is also a very important issue. You mentioned that we do not have to look at the color of the line, but at the service. And, well, I can buy that idea as long as the service is the same, and as long as the design of that service is the right one. As you said, Aperribai and Bengoetxe appeared at the time and disappeared later. So that's a very important question. When the sustainable mobility law was introduced, I told you that this bill you are presenting has good principles. I looked at the principles of action, and the first principle is "sustainable mobility and universal accessibility are an individual and collective right". In other words, the inhabitants of Durangaldea have no more rights than those of Nervion-Ibaizabal, and the inhabitants of the centre of Galdakao have no more rights than those of Aperribai and Bengoetxe. Obviously, the solutions will have to be different depending on the size of the population served, etc. But it obviously has to be. Then, another issue – to which he has not referred, but on which I would like to reiterate it – is the question of Sarratu's intermodality. I understand that it is not in doubt or that it should not be in doubt, but it is important, because for the region that yes is the neuralgic point, as you say, to eliminate traffic and so on. On the issue of money and what may delay this project, of course, I have to tell you that, within the principles governing the sustainable mobility bill that you presented to us the other day, the reconciliation of rail transport appears as the backbone of public land transport in Euskadi. I understand that previous proceedings that have been held by the legislature or even by the Government have not complied with this principle, but I would not understand that they are not being dealt with in the future. Of course, we have to bear in mind that in Bizkaia, right now, the Chamber, only the Chamber, has 600 million euros of planned investment dedicated to the private vehicle: 200 for the Supersur, with four kilometers of service; and 400 million for the subfluvial of the Lamiako, which is only three kilometers. That is to say, the House is now putting the private vehicle ahead of the railways and public transport. That is why it seemed important to me that the principles of the sustainable mobility bill should be maintained, because, in view of the future, I understand that, as far as funding is concerned, the Members should give this bill the same priority, not even more priority, as I know the Basque Government is doing. Because, obviously, the principles of a Basque law apply also in Bizkaia, or at least I would like to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u74	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u75	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Becerra, just to clarify the subject of Sarratu. Obviously, it is considered to have the maximum intermodality, because that is what it is about, to provide a solution on an already existing network but to improve services. And when he was talking about the colors, he was just referring to line three, because it's a fact. It is a fact that has been constructed in a different way, it is operated by another operator, but, however, the services are exactly the same. The important thing is, I think we have to put the accent there, the frequencies, the services, the quality, the seasons, in short, everything that makes us feel that we are within a line that gives us an adequate response to our needs. And that is what we are working on, also in this case, regarding the connection between Sarratu and the Galdakao hospital, and the entire Durangaldea area. That's the goal. The budget? Take it at this time as at an incipient moment. We are still in the middle of an informative study; those are the numbers that appear at the moment. But we have to go down to a great deal of detail, and we have to analyse them in a very specific way. However, it is the data that is currently providing us with the technical assistance that is doing so. And, as you rightly say, it is our priority, of course, to provide the best rail service to the whole of the Basque Autonomous Community, so that it is on which we build our mobility system. I'm not going to speak for the Bizkaia Foreign Office, but you can simply analyze what was worked – I think it was last week – at Bizkaia General Councils, where the deputy general himself spoke that in 2021 there will be a budgeted departure for this line. I therefore believe that the compromise is there, and it is demonstrated by facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is, Eva Lopez de Lariyabe de Matuna EHGGatune to the Chief of Economics and Sub-Sertains, about the Mahasty of the Araba/Viñedos de Álava new appointment." Ms. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u77	Yes, thank you. Good morning, everyone. Well, almost hilarious to the debate we had here yesterday afternoon, I don't think I'm going to say anything new if I repeat that the situation of Rioja Alavesa's family and small wineries is worrying at least. In that concern, a group of small wineries, a few years ago, asks to create a new denomination of origin, and in that we are: in a search for alternatives, in a search for how to reach the end of the month, how to survive, making it clear that they are business decisions, at all identities, or that's what it seems to our group. That new denomination, which is called Alava-Arabko Mahastiak Vineyards, is only a request to this day. And it must be said that, indeed, although it was late, the Basque Government has taken its steps. We want to look ahead, and that is why today's question. In a group of local cellars the light is clear: the modern Rioja Councilist encourages a standard according to the interests of quantity and company and cellars. It is not possible to develop the difference of the wines in the Errisha of the Arade, nor to develop the pattern of small cellars and familiars. So, Mrs. Tapia, the concrete question: What steps will you take to follow the progress of the Mahasty of Viños de Ála-Araavá with the process of the new nomination and to guarantee the technical and legal protection of the little cellars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u78	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours. Chiefs of Economics Developments and Sub-structions It was, indeed, such a discussion yesterday afternoon, and the subject was confused, although this was not the question. In this case, as you have mentioned, this new designation was asked to be started a few years ago. But, as an agreement was made, they asked us to stop at the Renaissance origin, to see how this agreement was made. And again, because they thought this agreement was not suitable, or that it was not in progress, they asked us to rate it again and take it again. In this case, the legal and technical analysis has been made, as the law does, and we've been dealing with it. Maybe we thought it was slow, but things have to be right. And I think they too, those who asked, understood it that way. After further documents and further technical analysis, we've completed a complete and appropriate file. Now, as far as the law is concerned, the file is well, so we've moved on and it's on the bulletin. From now on, what does it have to do with us? Well, then analyze what will be presented to us in two months as, probably, negative allegations, against. And then, after solving them, present them to the Ministry of Agriculture, which will be the one to lift them to Europe. There will also be at least two months in which to make allegations and objections. From there, the final decision can be given. What are we going to do as a government? So what we have done so far: to provide technical and legal support, according to all our technicians, both from Hazi and from the Government, so that it can be resolved in the most appropriate way possible. Because, as you say, it is a private business decision, of a series of wineries that we also have to defend, both those who remain within the Rioja designation of origin and those who want to go out and make another different path. Our service is going to be exactly the same, the same detailed, the same careful, to make them follow the path they consider appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Ms. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u80	Thanks again. Actually, I have to tell you that I didn't expect less from you. But I also have to admit that among the different agents, the different positions are, as a matter of fact, curious. On the one hand, he stopped because he trusted that the Regulatory Council would act in good faith, and in good faith it did not act; on the contrary, there was contempt, an attack. And that was going to put Araba Rioja Alavesa The attitude being taken by the Regulatory Council is not only that it is not protecting the wineries of Rioja Alavesa, but that it is pushing them to run. On the other hand, the Government of La Rioja says that we must not politicize this issue, and politicize it more than anyone else, because it goes to the Ministry to ask that, please, this stop. I think they're getting where they don't call them. On the other hand, your Government has indeed taken steps that seem a little slow to me, to us, but it is true that it has taken them. And, in that sense, it seems positive to us. I do not know whether I would say that the decisions have been taken by the Basque Government or the party in the Basque Country, because then we listen to Mr Ramiro González, and I, at least, believe that I have important doubts, since he speaks of a denomination within another denomination and speaks of it as a mistake. I think also, in this case, Mr Gonzalez is going where he is not called. It is distorting the debate, it is distorting even the theory, and it is saying that, well, one denomination within another denomination is possible. It is not possible, today it is not possible: you have to go to the Ministry, you have to change the law, the Regulatory Council has to accept it. So, let's not falter. I want to say that, in this case – I believe so and EH Bildu said it yesterday and today again – we are in the same trainer, Mr Urkullu said it today in the morning, in fact we are in the same trainer. We are defending a traditional model of family cellars, small, that create villages, that create region, and EH Bildu is going to engage in that. But we do ask for a unity of judgement, one that we understand that we can also share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Łódź de Lariyabe. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u82	Eskerrik asko, president. Mrs López de Arroyabe, I believe that we do not have to mix and, of course, the Government's task is to work with those wineries and with all the wineries of Rioja Alavesa to defend all the interests, which can be different, as we are currently appreciating. Those wineries that have decided to promote and try to exit the Rioja designation of origin with a new designation of origin will have all our technical and legal support, so that they can do so in the best possible way. However, there is another group of wineries that want to remain within the Rioja designation of origin, and if, of course, that is possible through the creation of a distinctive Rioja Alavesa denomination, where the broths are different and where different characteristics are observed, as happens, for example, in the Bordeaux designation of origin, we will also support it and we will work on it. That implies, it is true, having to amend a law in the State, but also our legal support will be, if that possibility is true and if of course there are some wineries that want to do so, exactly the same for both of them. My personal opinion in this case, and the personal opinion of the government or department, I don't think it's important. We have to work and defend both types of winery, and, of course, we will continue to give all our support so that they are a success, both of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number thirteen point in theme list: "To ask the question, "My own," "About the exit to the Royal and Iratic Districts to the Economics of the Basque Team, "to the Economics, and to the Chief of the Sub-Separations of Economies." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Counselor. As I pointed out in the text of the question, at the end of 2018, in response to an inquiry made by this parliamentarian, after having definitively ruled out line four of the Bilbao metro, she announced the realization of a complete informative study for the railway transport solution for the neighbours of Rekalde and Irala and the southern part of Bilbao. As part of the preparation of the study, he announced that a participatory process would be carried out in order to find out which option was most appropriate. However, as far as we know –because here I have to say that we are an interposed party, it is the neighbours who have contacted us – they have not been summoned to intervene in this information process, and it was also supposed to be developed throughout 2019 and it has to be delivered in this year 2020, and it seems that the participatory process has not yet, as I say, been carried out. For this reason, we believe it is necessary to know how and how this participatory process that was promised at the time will be articulated.This study was to banish all that had been done until then in relation to line four, to rethink what the transport solution that the neighbours of Rekalde, Irala and the southern part of Bilbao were going to have, but you commented that what they were proposing, in any case, is a service of metro characteristics, of quality and with the appropriate frequency. Therefore, we want to know what that solution is or how it is designed, how the design of it is going and when that study is definitely going to be delivered.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u85	Thank you, Miss Llanos. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u86	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I am not going to repeat the prolegómenos, because Mrs Llanos mentioned them, but it is true that, as I have commented to Mr Becerra, our objective in rethinking the two lines, the two alternatives, both the so-called line five and the four, was to try to use the existing railway tracks, in order to improve them, to provide an adequate service: a metro service, with frequencies, the quality and the stations appropriate and corresponding to a metro service. That was the goal. In addition, what we were thinking of was trying to give a solution to the whole of southern Bilbao, Rekalde, Irala, yes, but that we could reach the Zorroza area, and the Basurto area and that we could introduce them to the centre of Bilbao. That was the premise with which we proposed the informational study. The informational study – by not tying me with dates – is of 9 May 2019; when it is awarded and it begins to work is from June 2019. It has three different actions: first, to analyze all the different alternatives that are going to be publicly exposed, that are going to work within that participatory process; secondly, the participatory process itself; and, with the solution or with what is being proposed within that process, to be able to definitively prepare the informative study. The analysis of different alternatives involves six months of project, and the truth is that we have grown a little longer. Since June we have not yet completed it, because we are also working on a line that is not the competence of the Autonomous Community, which is the competence of the State. But that is not an obstacle for us to continue in its development, and we hope to finish it, of course, for this month. At the same time, we are working with the Bilbao City Council, trying to establish what the participatory process, which was planned in two months, is going to be like, but we have considered that we are going to extend it a little further to give way to all the opinions of all the neighbours, not just those of Rekalde and Irala, because we want to expand it a little further, and, with all this, the project will be delivered. We have extended it six more months with the aim of having this informational study respond to the needs that we raised and also to everything that the neighbours put before us. That is the situation of the project today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Llanos andrea, zure da hitza. lanos gomez You, with this solution, are doing what you are doing is to give priority to some Bizkaia's neighbors over others and to give priority to some Bilbao's neighbors over others. And I'm telling you, I'm from Basauri, and in Basauri we have rail transport and we have metro lines. However, you have previously answered Galdakao, and also in Bilbao, that some neighbors, such as those in the Old Helmet, may have a subway and yet other neighbours in Bilbao do not have it. In addition, the subway may reach Rekalde. What happens is that you have decided that those neighbours are not a priority for you and that, when you invest public money, you will invest it in another way. Allow me, with the utmost respect to the neighbors: this is like making an original new dish or cooking with leftovers. What you're going to do to Rekalde's neighbors is cook with leftovers. They are going to take advantage of existing infrastructures and in those infrastructures they are going to make, you say, a solution under similar conditions of quality and service. Because, in addition, you said that the territory would be vertebrated if there was a transport under similar conditions of quality and service. He doesn't have it right now. I challenge you to put yourself in Rekalde and try to go to Basurto, which is very close. The laps you have to take are amazing. I'm not telling you if you have to go to Getxo anymore. That problem doesn't have the Old Helmet, it doesn't have the Abandonment. You're treating them differently. And now I'm going to the participatory process. You said then that it is not doing 100% what the neighbors say. Man, it's not 100%, it's not 10%. What I would like to ask you to do is that, when you open up this participatory process, which I think should be opened up, it is precisely so that all the neighbours can have an opinion on it, on the solution given, that they take into account what the neighbours want. Do not do it as a simple paripé of "we have already given you audience but then we do what we want". I think the neighbors of Rekalde, Irala, Peñascal... They deserve respect, they deserve not only to be heard, but to be heard. And they deserve that the solution given to them, which, I say, is like cooking with leftovers, is at least a solution that really spills the territory and gives them the same conditions as the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u88	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours. chapters for the economy, and the Submissions of the Subventures Mrs. Llanos. Really, talking without knowing what the solution is seems so bold to me... Is the metro line three cooking with leftovers? Are we not giving a service every five minutes of fantastic quality and with stations like those on line one or those on line two? Did I ever deny that solution? Precisely what I have told you is that we are working on an existing line with the necessary improvements to reach the upper and lower areas of Irala and Rekalde. And that means having to do a series of works and a series of improvements, with the service and frequency that line one and line two can have. For us all the citizens of Euskadi have the same rights, but also the same obligations. And, therefore, the solution that will be proposed will, in our view, be the best solution for these citizens. And we'll listen to them. That is why we are working with the city council to establish a participatory process, not just to hear them. To listen to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The fourteenth point in the subject list. "The question is, that the members of the Congress of the Obi-Cather Ostero, made to the Chief of Economics, and Sub-Sertains, concerning the Projects of the Eoligic Energy of the Air Force." Mr. Otero, your word is yours. May the Gauls be at hand. Mrs. Tapia, following your report, I'm here to talk about the eolious energy. It seems to me that we're as usual, you've put the propaganda machine to the top, you look at the balloon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u90	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours. chapters for the economy, and the Submissions of the Subventures You know perfectly well, Mr. Otero, that this fun has been talking over and over and over again about the creation we've been creating around the renewable energy is very small and our goal is to increase it. We have, therefore, got the experience of starting again a company like Axein going on: 40% will be EVE's and 60% of Iberdron's. Why? Because it's the first company to promote parks like this because it's by chance here and we already have experience and, besides, successful experiences making different parks. Elgea, for instance, will be 20 years this year, but we haven't started another project for a long time. Seeing that we have no choice but to retractable energy is not enough to take advantage of the photostatic energy or biomas or the power of the wind. And for that, what have we done? He began to measure the wind, where it is and what it is, and the former PTS foreseeed where it is and where it is accepted. One is the Fountain Mountains. And of course, the measurements we made before, how old they are, are measured in height, in time. What's going on? At this time, the creative winds are much more powerful, and therefore the wind must be measured higher. So we're making measurements for what? Then we can develop the park. And this is serious, and not only here, but elsewhere we will continue to do it. Because, really, if we believe that we have to do it, we have to start taking steps.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u92	You were saying that at the beginning of the law, if there's no more reconnaissance in our country, it's people's protests, isn't it? In time. And, in a certain sense, that's true. But I think Einstein said if we do the same, the results will be the same. And I think it's your case. You were talking about the energy strategy, about subjecting the wind farm to an assessment of its impact on the Natura 2000 network. Is it done? Doesn't look like it. The first place is being analysed: Iturrieta Mountains, Red Natura, an area of special conservation, which is likely to become a special zone for the protection of birds, and also of interest for necrophagous birds. In other words, the first idea is to propose to put shovels over 100 meters in an area of special conservation and sensitive to birds. So often plan! But the energy strategy says more. It says that the object, the objective is to develop the wind plan, adapted to the current level of technological development, according to, and reaching the consensus necessary for its approval. Indeed, consensus. If something has become clear in this legislature, it is that there is a need for broad consensus on the energy issue. The Energy Sustainability Act emerged from the consensus. Consensus is sought in the covenant for the energy we proposed. On country pacts for energy you have spoken, you have spoken the lehendakari, you were talking everyone, to end up doing, what?, the usual? Because the only deal I've seen is the one that's signed with Iberdrola. Have you agreed on something with the opposition? No, no, With the population around? No, no, With the rest of the institutions? It does not seem, because in Araba there is a plan for renewables, the Mugarri plan, which is a good document and it is quite a consensus. He says: "For the selection of sites, the Natura 2000 Network is considered an exclusion zone", an exclusion zone. When we look at this, we ask in Juntas de Araba: are you going to allow mills to be put in Montes de Iturrieta? And Galera's answer was clear, "clearer, I can't be," he said, "if I tell him it's a site that has restrictions, white and bottled." And I ask you, are you going to pass over everything and everyone? Moreover, I ask you, who has decided this? Do you, with 40% participation in Aixendar, or Iberdrola, with 60%? You, why are you?, to seek consensus?, why has Aixendar been created?, to clear the way with public money and then sell, as with Euskadi Winds? I want to finish it. Let's make it clear that the Basque Country is on the side of the retals, too, for the Eolicians, but not everywhere. If you want protection, start looking for consensual. And the consensus, yes or yes, must pass through the neglect of the protected zones of nature. Okay? I've also got a request to finish. One of them knows very soon how bad it is, if you solve the legislature, please don't start such slippers while you're in the office. In conclusion, I don't know if we'll ever meet again at this gate, you'll be there and I here, who knows. If not, I would have you admit, that though we seldom agree, at least these discussions have been highly esteemed for me. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u93	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u94	Mr. Otero, when we start a society like Axein, it's because it's an interest, like when we've put the project into action, because there's a project and there's a choice. Options And we're serious about keeping that company here and in other places. But I think it's time for us to take off all the streets and bets, in the right places, so that Eukadin might be the product of the power of the wind. A society of this kind is absolutely indispensable. And it is absolutely necessary, because otherwise it is not possible for such an investment, because it is impossible to carry on, and because to create real energy is to make great investments. The other thing is that we're working with small councils, or even smaller energy methods, and we're going to do it, and one doesn't take the other off. But to get to 15 percent, as you know, at least we have to double it, and we're far away. So we have to work hard, and all our effort will be there. On the other hand, it looks like you've greeted us when you left. I think the president has said that we still have time to accept the laws and do the work. So I think we'll have a chance to have a discussion and get to agreements, I'm sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Tenbost point in the theme list: "Ask me, José Ramon Becerra Carollo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, the head physician of the Board of Education, about the changes of the pattern of the schools." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u96	Thank you. Good morning, ma'am. Last October, we accepted a motion here, in the parliament, unanimously, which required changes in the school stations. And we gave the four months' time to set up those changes. My question is simple: What steps did you take to fill the motion?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u97	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u98	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, chief of the department, Mr. Becerra, good day. In answer to your question, the Education Department has been working for some time to introduce changes into the dining room management model. A good deal before accepting the initiative you mentioned. And at the same time we've continued to take steps to give the modern services as much security and as much quality as possible. Since the House of Schools started in December 2017, the year 2018, the representatives of families and schools and workers, and the development and competition of health and economics, have worked together with one purpose: To improve the model for managing the schools in public schools. Since it was set off, during the course of these months, the committee has made many meetings in order to examine the experiences or proposals which have been introduced in this subject by several complicated agents and institutions. Based on the work on the board, and on the representative of the families (EHIGE) and the directors of the schools, as well as the proposals received by the directors of the EHIA, the Department has been writing new contractors for the year 2019. Moreover, the proposals which the Health Department has made for the wholesome nutritious nourishment which has designed, and the criteria of environment and stability have been introduced in the terms of the exchange, in order to improve the quality of the service. The new proposal for recruitment documents has satisfactory reports from both the Basque Competition Authority and the Central Recruitment Commission, the latest of which was submitted at the end of October 2019. At the end of November 2019, the proposed changes to the contract documents for the service were transferred to EHIGE's representatives. In addition, the department has continued to work on other lines of work with a view to making the model more flexible and providing it with other management alternatives, to enable parents'associations to manage the school dining room, and to focus on the idea of volunteering to develop such work and other additional lines of work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u100	But until then, on the motion I mentioned, there were principally three sections of the wall. The first was that we should make a concession of our system today, and that, as you mentioned, we should prepare the conditions and then agree. It is true that you have them prepared, but it is not clear to me that any agreement has been reached and that this information that you have transferred is complete. I'm going to ask you, through an appearance, to come and explain. I know you can't explain the details of the papers, but you can give details of where those papers are headed. The second order of this was that both experience and dining-rooms outside the system need either legal or economical security or, in my information, a report is missing, a legal report, because it needs to know how the conditions of the workers are left. And I want to ask you what information you have or what you've got or what you haven't done yet. And the third thing was, they had to encourage the art of recovering the kitchens. That's what he was talking about. And I think it's working, but maybe you'll give me some information. What I want to ask you is that we gave you tools from our team to do the job. On the one hand, the political protection and the extensive consent of our motives, and on the other, because we've determined the risks in budgets and in order to recover the kitchens, and to settle the projects that are outside the system. I would like the answer given by the department in the month that is left to meet the deadline to be as swift as this question needs, especially with regard to the specifications of the dining rooms, how much consensus this requires to overcome old conflicts that, as you say, come from before the motion and before this legislature, and that have not been satisfactorily resolved – that is why we are here – and that, in addition, the answer is firm enough to have legal certainty and economic security the system that comes out of this process. What I want to tell you is don't miss the opportunity. Do not delay the changes, because I know there could be a temptation that, if the lehendakari dissolves Parliament and puts an end to the legislature, we can move on to the next one. But I remind you that already in March 2016, that is, not in this legislature, but in the previous one, they had a motion against you. In October 2019 they had another motion on this issue, and there is no doubt that, if we are not able to solve the problem of the dining rooms, because sooner or later the poorly buried dead end up resurfacing and ask for responsibilities for the work that has not been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u101	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs Harper, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u102	Mr Becerra, our commitments are clear. As I have already informed you in my first speech, at the end of November, in particular on 28 November, the proposed amendments to the procurement documents were transferred to the representatives of EHIGE, such as the number of lots, duration, possibilities for contractual modification, solvency requirements and award criteria, as well as the improvements contained in the technical specifications relating to the Healthy Food Plan. And, as I have told you, these papers have been positively informed by the Basque Competition Authority and the contracting authority. I therefore believe that this step has already been taken as reflected in the amendment you are saying. On the other hand, the new Educational Infrastructure Plan 2019-2023, in force since June 2019, already incorporates actions aimed at providing kitchens to centers that have only the necessary infrastructure to provide the service with transported food, understanding that this will enable, gradually, those centers that opt for on-site cooking. I believe that we are in the same line, and the agreement signed last December with your parliamentary group in the context of the budgetary negotiation for 2020, with an increase of EUR 500 000 in a heading dedicated to the construction of new kitchens, will allow the action of the plan to be stepped up in this respect. In the same way, we've agreed to extend the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the schools' stations. For the 2020 act with the budget funding of $5000,000. The object of all these interventions is to give an answer to the importance which society confers on the dining-room service, and to the elevation of the establishment of that kind in the schools.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interrament, Laura Garrido Knörr, members of the Basque Groups, members of the Popula, made for the head of the Medical Department, an aid service for Usurgents. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Again we direct an interesting subject, by means of an interpelation, to the head of the health department. We have discussed this subject several times in this attic, both at the Board of Health, and here with different enterprises which have been directed. And we saw today that it was quite right to bring this subject back here. After all, we're talking about important business, emergency health service. For, owing to some events in the past period, doubt or uneasiness have arisen about this service. We want to know if the Health Department will make any improvement or change it. As we all know, the emergency service is part of the regular operating service package, which is permanently and with specific functions intervened where an emergency occurs. That's what we commonly know as the 112 number. There are different coordinating centres, or there was, rather, because there is a proposal for unification that is being carried out by the department and Osakidetza. But these coordinating centres were established in 1983, and it was decided that a coordinating centre would be established in each of the three historical territories. It has, yes, set up a single telephone platform, with three focal points. In the emergencies there are also the SEIS of the municipalities. When we talk about the emergency service, we talk about the Emergencies of Osakidetza, the SEIS of the municipalities and parliaments, the Ertzaintza, the Emergency Care and Meteorology. If something characterizes this type of services is a quick response, the immediacy, the enabling of the appropriate resource. We are also talking about emergency situations, saving human lives, saving a life or not. And we are also, of course, talking about coordination of all the agents or the different agents who can interact in the provision of emergency care. I would like to remind you, Madame Secretary of Health, that in a last debate here, at this gathering of the whole, a proposal was agreed, an agreement. According to the information that this team has, the RedMork was supposed to do before the end of the year 2019. At least our team has no information. I don't know if you'll give us any more information here. As I was telling you, one of the last pronouncements in this House on this matter was that a report on the situation of the emergency service was being made: you had a deadline until the end of 2019. This group has not been aware of this study. We would like to ask you expressly whether this study is complete, whether it is going to make it known, whether it is going to present it, and we would like to know the conclusions of this study. That agreement also stated that any decision to unify the emergency centres of the three territories into a single territory should be paralysed, which seems to have not been the case, because you have continued with that proposal. And, speaking really of the matter, although this interpellation covers everything, I will also focus on the situation of the emergency health service in Euskadi, which is the subject of this interpellation and which, as I said earlier, has had coordination problems. There have also been difficulties, according to certain news that we have known, to actually get to the site that has to arrive a resource to attend to a certain health emergency, to attend to an emergency extra-hospital emergency; I am referring to the attention given by ambulances. There is a debate, Madam Counsellor, which I believe you cannot deny, on the basis of the information in the media as well: whether we have an effective emergency service, an adequate and resized ambulance network. We also want to know your opinion on this. I want to say that for this group, and you know it – when the witness happened to him, Mr Darpón, I imagine he would tell you – the improvement of the emergency health transport network has been a constant concern. We, in the budgets agreed and agreed with the Basque Government, introduced two specific items to improve the emergency health transport network in Bizkaia and another in Álava, in 2017. Also in 2018, one in the Left Margen and one in Álava. And I have to tell you that this year we have also introduced a departure, as you know, to strengthen the urgent health transport in Álava, with the specific request for an ambulance to be more medicalized in the territory of Alava. As you well know, and I will focus on this last point, in Álava there are two medicalized ambulances with advanced life support with medical assistance, because there are others who have nursing care. Clearly, according to the numbers that are being put on the table and the problems that seem to have occurred the last few times with the attention of these resources, it seems that the two medicalized ambulances that currently exist in the territory of Alava are insufficient. One is located, as you well know, in Vitoria and another in Llodio. But it must be said that the one located in Llodio also pays attention to Bizkaia. We know, and you are going to tell me, that the emergency health transport network works on the network, and you are going to tell me also that Arrasate, which is in Gipuzkoa, sometimes also comes to the territory of Álava. But in Álava there is only one medicalized ambulance of continuous disposition, while in the neighboring territories we have a much more kind number of ambulances, with five supports in Bizkaia, four supports in Bizkaia plus that of Llodio: in Bilbao, in Leioa, in Gernika and Urioste. And in Gipuzkoa we have five, in Irun, in Donostia, in Elgoibar, in Toulouse and Arrasate. In comparison, there is a difference, considering that Llodio's ambulance serves mainly in the territory of Vizcay. We also have to tell you that the number of ambulances that we can have in the territory, those two ambulances, which ultimately remain in one, do not follow the recommendations of the World Health Organization, because it recommends one unit per 120,000 inhabitants, and therefore the population criteria are not met. I tell you, I already know how you work in the field of emergency extra-hospital health care and that you work in a network. He's gonna tell me about the helicopter, too. But putting these numbers on the table... I say to us that this issue has concerned us and that we have introduced specific amounts to improve the urgent health transport network in the three territories. We believe that this issue needs to be addressed and that the situation of this service needs to be resized in particular. As I said, one issue is the specific resources for this attention, but we are also concerned about everything that has to do with the Emergency Service, with the decision made at the time of centralization of the service in Bizkaia. I believe that the decision, which was taken at the time, to have three decentralized services was good, because each territory has its own characteristics. Those who answer these calls, too, if they are located in the three territories, can offer much greater information and knowledge of the area. Being all centralized in Bizkaia, as you know, there has recently been some problem that the system has fallen and it has been necessary to pull, if I remember correctly, the infrastructures of another territory. That is why I believe all these issues need to be clarified, Madam Counsellor. And more so when this debate is a topical debate. And that is why we expressly ask you if it is the intention of the department that you lead to improve the emergency health care service in order to give adequate attention to the citizenry. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u105	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u106	Andrea president, legebiltzarkideok, Garrido andrea. In recent days we are witnessing a campaign to try to question without arguments or solvent indicators the urgent health transport service and, by the way, create alarm and scare the population on such a sensitive issue. It gives the feeling that they have all agreed to criticize a lack of ambulances, of material, a bad service. And what you are doing, in fact, is obviating that this service is of high quality and consists of a large number of professionals, along with assistive and coordination equipment and protocols that manage to save lives every day. That is why I want to start my speech by saying loud and clear that urgent transfers in ambulances, both in Araba and in Bizkaia or in Gipuzkoa, are not only fully guaranteed, but are carried out with quality, with the help of qualified professionals and with high-quality materials and equipment. Go ahead with my public recognition of the group of more than 1,000 professionals who are part of this service. My appreciation and thanks for your good work. Especially all those who have been or are currently participating in the incident we have in Zaldibar. I can assure you, Mrs Garrido, that from the Emergencies of Osakidetza adequate and high-quality emergency health care is being offered to the Basques and Basques. We are always ready to improve, but I can assure you that adequate attention is being given to citizens. We've explained it more than once and I'm going to do it again now. The resources are not exclusive to an area, i.e. they are distributed all over Euskadi and work in a coordinated way, as you have shown you know. Emergencies of Osakidetza works with resources of different quality, qualification and potential. For this, we have advanced life support ambulances with nurses and doctors, advanced life support ambulances exclusively with nurses, basic life support ambulances, non-care ambulances, helicopter and optional and nursing staff who assist at home. All these resources constitute the care network managed by the coordinating doctors who, together with the health council provided by nursing staff, offer assistance 365 days a year, 24 hours a day. And this assistance is provided in appropriate response ratios. And I'm going to offer you some guidance. From the opening of an incident to the assignment of an appeal, they spend between three and four minutes on average. Since the incident is assigned and an ambulance leaves, the average is one minute and 40 seconds. And from that ambulance out to the place, the time is between 6.4 and 10.4 minutes. Times, as I say to you, taking into account the whole territory of Euskadi and the diversity of gravity with the calls listed in the triage, daily it is maintained and you can give the answer we give. That's right, it could get better. Networking means not having the different types of resources concentrated, but distributed and able to act throughout the territory, in an attempt to provide initial health care to anyone, where they are, in the shortest possible time, guaranteed to be supported by the nearest care resources if necessary. It is true, as you have pointed out, that we work in the network. I repeat again: no resource is or should be exclusive of an area. And so, working in a network and in a coordinated way, last year, for example, more than 400,000 calls and incidents were managed at the three focal points in Bilbao, Donostia and Gasteiz. A figure that demonstrates the capacity of this network and that also shows the confidence that this service generates in Basque society that comes to it whenever it needs it. You refer exclusively to Araba. In this territory, for example, in addition to the resources allocated, which you have mentioned, in Llodio, also in Amurrio, and the two ambulances of Gasteiz, the coverage of advanced life support is supported with an ambulance of Arrasate and with the helicopter. I will add, Mrs Garrido, in case you did not know it, that in the new competition of the urgent service transport network that we are about to award, we have extended in 12 hours the coverage of one of the basic life support ambulances of Vitoria-Gasteiz, so it will work 24 hours a day. As you will already know, this means quite more than doubling your cost. Therefore, only in Vitoria-Gasteiz, in two months we will get them to operate an advanced life support ambulance with a 24-hour doctor, an advanced life support ambulance with a 24-hour nurse, three basic life support ambulances 24 hours and a basic life support ambulance 12 hours. In addition to this emergency health transport network to which I have just referred, Araba also has the health personnel network. A network of home care doctors and nurses offering health care at both rural and urban levels. And I will tell you that the response to any emergency or emergency is carried out taking into account all of them and them and their assistance capacity, both individually and in teamwork. I will also add that all Osakidetza emergency resources are distributed in Euskadi on the basis of the population dimension, but also taking into account other factors that are established and the number of assistance received and provided annually. In Euskadi we have distributed 69 basic ambulances, 11 advanced life support with nursing staff, 11 advanced life support with nursing and medical staff and, in addition, the helicopter, which has a supply of materials equipable to an advanced life support and which allows us to improve assistance in remote or hard-to-reach areas and reduce response times in the transport of critical patients between hospitals, improving the patient's safety network, etc. In addition, the staffing of emergency personnel in Osakidetza has also been growing in recent years. Thus, in the year 2015 the staff trained 244 workers and today they make up 277 professionals. This increase in staff means that the stake on the part of the Department of Health and Osakidetza with regard to emergencies is firm and clear, and we are demonstrating that. Another element of the importance attached to this service, in order to ensure that its benefits are adequate to the demands of Basque society, is the effort made last year, for example, to improve the working conditions of emergency workers. Thus, on 10 April last year, the Directorate General of Osakidetza and the unions SATSE, LAB, Medical Union, Commissions and UGT reached an agreement. An agreement entailed the recognition of certain specific supplements that came to pay for the particular conditions of emergency workstations, as well as the overtime overlap for all staff of that organization. It was also agreed to open recruitment bags for emergency drivers. It is also significant and secure, and you are very aware of it, the commitment to quality employment that this Government has. This government commitment to quality employment is demonstrated by including in the health transport packages that we are currently dealing with the impact of improvements in the new autonomous collective agreement in the sector, which entered into force on 1 January. I mean, Mrs Garrido, we are taking continuous steps to improve and give the quality service we all want to give. Generally, to give a good service, you must consider different views. A few other things must be considered besides the recipe. And that's what we're doing: Give me a few steps every day to improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u108	Thank you, Counselor, thank you for the information. Obviously, many of the things you've said here we already knew. But I think you have to ask yourself clearly, in that attack that you say you are seeing from everyone in relation to urgent health transport, why there is so much news. I mean, I don't question a quality service at all, I've never done it and I think I have no reason to do it now, but I do criticise the way in which this service is managed and how it is coordinated, and that is why I asked you if you think that the urgent health transport network in our Autonomous Community is properly resized. You know that at the end of the year the UTE that managed this service decided not to continue with the contract and we had to look for emergency ambulances, which we have all seen circulating, not precisely with the colors we were used to. There have therefore been convulsive situations, Madam Counsellor, and I therefore believe that this has obviously been picked up in the media. On the other hand, you also know what the demands are on the part of the workers who are there, who obviously also have their reasons for the issues that arise in relation to the way in which an appeal is organised which, as I say, is essential and has coordination problems. He didn't tell me anything about the centralization of the emergency service in Bizkaia, he didn't tell me anything at all. I have expressly asked you for an agreement from this House asking the Basque Government for a rigorous study on the situation of the emergency service, and you have not told me anything about this study. I understand that it is not done, if so, tell us, and if not, explain to us the conclusions of this study. Nor has he told us anything about the decision to move the focal points to Bizkaia, the problems that also occurred with the fall of the computer system because they were centralized at that time, as I say, already in Bizkaia. He has not told us how things are in relation to this decision. I therefore believe that we, Madam Counsellor, have done what we have done is to bring to this rostrum issues that are on the street and issues that are echoed by the media. Obviously, I know, because I have been concerned about the issue, how the emergency transport health network works in our Autonomous Community, and it works in a network, in fact, and we know that in Álava there are two medicalized ambulances, but we also know that the Llodio ambulance, because of its proximity, works more in the territory of Bizkaia. We know that Arrasate's sometimes, not always, when it can be sued, can come to Álava, but it is also often busy, and we also know that the helicopter is there. But look, the concern of this group for this issue has been so important and so high priority, to say the least, that these improvements that you are talking about in the urgent health transport network in the three territories have come along this legislature at the hands of the People's Party. And I would like to remind you, Madam Counsellor, that in 2017 a concrete match was introduced to improve the health transport network, both in Álava and in Gipuzkoa, and in 2018 in the Margen Izquierda and in Álava, and I will also remind you of the whole episode in relation to the demand for the medicalized ambulance in the area of Bidasoa. Therefore, from this group we ask you to send us this study to know the situation of the emergency service, how the resources are, whether to resize them or not. But it is clear that the system has shortcomings, Counsellor. The quality of a service is not questioned, but the system is deficient and more so when there have been recent events in which ambulances have been ordered, ambulances have not arrived and such transport has had to be done by the people close to them. And you know that this situation is also happening in places of the Historical Territory of Álava and in the entire Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Often there are problems with an ambulance and family members decide to take the person in need of such care to the corresponding emergency service. Therefore, what we ask you is whether you are going to make improvements and remedy the deficiencies that are detected so far. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u109	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u110	Garrido andrea, I am glad that you do not question the quality of the service provided by emergency services and consider them to be timely; I think it is unfair that you doubt the coordination and management that is being carried out. Remark it again, working in a network means not having the different types of resources concentrated and that when it is necessary that an ambulance located in Amurrio comes to a nearby town, it comes, and that this is coordinated by a center and a few people with technical guidelines and protocols. We measure the times, measure the needs and act with technical criteria to equip the areas and coordinate and see where resources are needed. No one knows where or when an emergency is going to happen. The emergency work of Osakidetza consists of the planned management of uncertainty and emergency. That is why we have trained and prepared emergency personnel and all our resources distributed in all areas of Euskadi in order to reach where urgent transport and health care are needed in the shortest possible time and with the support of the various nearby resources that exist. As part of this ongoing training of emergency personnel, I believe it is important to highlight the recently signed Osakidetza Emergency Agreement with Arkaute, a training agreement that will allow Ertzaintza professionals, firefighters and local police to receive specialized training to act in emergency situations and that will be provided by health professionals. It will be the first time and I am sure it will be an important step forward. You know that our work also consists of resource planning. We do not refuse to continue to analyse needs. We always do it to try to offer a proper answer. We regularly review areas with higher demand and response times to introduce additional resources where necessary. The study you are requesting is in progress, as was said, and will be delivered as it is completed. In fact, in my first intervention I have already pointed out that we have just reinforced the attention in Vitoria-Gasteiz, expanding in 12 hours the coverage of one of the basic life support ambulances. You also referred in your speech to the situation at the end of December after the company responsible for providing the urgent transfer service withdrew without notice. However, it has not even been his imagination to highlight the important effort that has been made by the Department of Health to solve this situation. With little time, it is true, and after trying to negotiate different options in the face of the company's refusal to continue the contract, the Department of Health was able to ensure that from 31 December at 12 o'clock in the evening the necessary service for the citizenry would have a response to their similar and quality care needs. That is why I repeat, Mrs Garrido, from Osakidetza's Emergencies, urgent health care is being offered to the Basques and Basques as a whole. And from now on that's what we do. in harmony, by a great network, to offer a proper health attack to the euscal society, by examining the exigencies of every moment, and by making a manager ofgestium. Thanks again to all the emergency workers: We live better because of your daily work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interlation, by Juan Louis Urania Serranus, the law-maker of the Podemos to the chief physician of the Medical Department, to control the relations of public service in the health of the world, and of private ground. Mr. Uria, your word is yours. uri serano We live in new times. I am not referring to the excellent victory of the Athletic of Bilbao yesterday against Barcelona or the Real against Real Madrid, which are also new times, but I am referring to the shielding of social rights. Not only in the budgets of the Basque Government, but also in the agreement signed by the Government in Madrid: the shielding of social rights, its strengthening, its deepening and its extension. It is the fundamental line, at least from our group, to develop. Indeed, the shielding of the national health system and the right to health is one of the points that have been signed in the agreement of the new Government. I will try, very briefly, to give some brushstrokes on some topical issues of our public health system, brushstrokes on the private health system in Euskadi and a few proposals to end up putting to compañera Murga, if not established, a policy of evaluation, of checking, of reviewing our system of public-private collaboration. It is always a contradictory collaboration, because the public system has to do with the social rights of people and the Government has to do with the management of health rights on an equitable basis for all. And the private sector has to do with the business, it has to do with the profits. Osakidetza: 12,000 doctors, 826,000, 11 acute hospitals, more than 70% of the total number of Euskadi beds, 1,000 more structural places, just came out in the debate this morning. We have gone from twenty-six thousand and peak to twenty-seven thousand and peak, so that the structural squares are enlarged and the functional squares, which reach up to 35,000, decrease. Let us hope that in the new OPEs, too, the fixed percentage of our staff will increase. The management of people in Osakidetza is always a problem: more than 15 health centers of new construction, more than 140 places of new creation in Primary Care. I do not refer to the last ones mentioned by the General Directorate of Osakidetza, twenty pediatrics and 90 family doctors who are going to leave. He has referred to vacancies that will be filled as a result of the latest OPE. I am referring to new creations, more than 140 new creations that would strengthen primary care and its ability to solve people's problems. An attitude on the part of the Government to review policies on access to public job offers, new public job offers, 215 jobs in progress and two thousand and peaks are already announced, etc. We have a couple of problems in Osakidetza; we keep about 32% of the staff precarious. In five years, 5,000 doctors retire in the Basque Autonomous Community, and we have some problems in improving the coverage of the system, not just in emergency care. By the way, why is San Mamés full of IMQ slogans and students with IMQ jackets for emergencies and accidents, if we have such good emergency personnel in Osakidetza? Some kids go out there with the stretchers for the players who kick each other, and I don't know, I don't quite understand why Osakidetza isn't with the professional quality that our staff has. Okay. Coverage needs to be improved, not only in vital basic support, which was commented on earlier, but in oral health, mental health, etc. An effort has been made, the coverage of intermediate units in child and youth mental health will be increased in the new budgets. Well, let's go one way or another by strengthening the public health system. But I'm not just talking about that, I'm talking about public-private collaboration, which is why I've come out to make this call to compañera Murga. What private sector are we talking about in Euskadi? Well, of a sector that occupies more than 33% of the total health benefit, about 29% of hospital beds, 21% of the total surgical intervention activity in the Autonomous Community. In IMQ in 2016 there were 350,000 insured people, with an exponential increase from the crisis. The private sector increased investment by 16% and the public sector decreased investment by around 11% in 2008-2015. It's private sector data, it's not even mine. And it's logical that this happens, always increasing the policies of private insurance systems, always increasing the coverage of people; by the way, most are people from 20 to 60 years old, not older than 70 years old, which are seven times less than those from 25 to 60 years old. You understand what I mean, don't you? It's not the most fragile people, the older people, most people who have policies in the private sector. This is called adverse risk selection. The cost-effective and the easy, the private sector. Appendicitis, for example, short stay, an appendicitis to a young person. Patients at risk, to Osakidetza: the elderly and the most fragile. What private sector are we talking about? There are four ways to characterize more or less the public money that goes to the private sector. Four ways. One, which is not usually taken into account, is what people spend out of their pocket. "How do people spend their pocket? You're saying about the concerts." No, I'm not talking about concerts. I'm talking about what people spend out of their pocket: in Vitaldent, in medicine, in the physio Outsourcing. They stopped at Urduliz hospital, thanks to the administrative court. They need to be reviewed, 155 million in 2020 budgets. Concerts. "Hey, Uria, we have the lowest concerts in the whole state, barely 6%, it doesn't even reach 220 million." That's right, we have to check them out. Ambulances, mental health hospitals in Gipuzkoa, La Asunción Clinic. And consulting. Private consultancies for everything. The last one I remember is an award made by Osakidetza to a consultancy to prepare the basis for strategies for a new public health law that has not yet emerged, counselor, a new public health law. 80,000 euros, he's in Irekia for anyone who wants to consult him. Consulting for everything, no need. We have good technicians, we have Bioef, we have good epidemiologists and epidemiologists, why so much private consulting? Thus, the pocket of people, outsourcings, concerts and consultancies or consultancies. That's the private sector. There we go some peseta beads. What do we propose? Very simple: to evaluate and review, as they are doing in the rest of the state, and will extend further, the set of concerts and outsourcings in terms of economic and health impact; to review our coverage of Osakidetza within the framework of equity. It is not the most efficient mechanism of resource allocation in all orders of society, and less in the health field. It is not the way to weaken and discredit public health systems as much as possible. It is not the goal to open all kinds of spaces to private services by expanding business niche opportunities as much as possible. Osakidetza's chiefs of services cannot be the chiefs of service in the private sector, even if they are ethical people, good people, my friends, no matter. It doesn't matter, it's a fundamentally unfair competition issue: it always wins the private sector. And I don't want to talk about the pressures on new generations of doctors in some surgical services to go to the private sector as well to help the boss. Incompatibility in the heads of service of Osakidetza, private public sector, avoid parasitism. It's not the way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u112	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Your time is up. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u113	Mrs. President, Congressman, Mr. Uria. You and I share and defend that Osakidetza is an achievement of the whole of Basque society. We have achieved a public, universal and quality health system among all of us. He stressed his phrase that the Basque health system was being strengthened by the actions it was taking in relation to investments, human resources and others. And I appreciate it. We certainly have things in our system to improve, and we dedicate ourselves to that every day. But when we look beyond our three historical territories, I know that we should not have some of them as a reference. We can be proud to see that we provoke a healthy, but never better said, envy in our environment, both in terms of public funding and in terms of results, activity, quality and health outcomes. I'll give you a couple of examples. Euskadi has been at the head of public health spending per person for more than a decade. Using the official statistics of the Ministry of Health and those of the National Institute of Statistics, in the last year of the historical series, since 2017 Euskadi has spent 1,711 euros per capita, better said, it has invested, when the average of the State remained at 1,374 euros, that is, 24% above the average. The Basque Government's commitment to Osakidetza has been continued over the past 36 years. And it shows that this year Euskadi is also still at the head of the state in per capita expenditure, and this year 2020 we allocate 1,801 euros per person. I therefore share with you, Mr Uria, that, as you acknowledge in the justification of this inquiry, the level of health funding from the Basque Autonomous Community is above most of our environment. We agree, and the facts I have given are clear, and this is certainly how they show themselves. Also in multiple and continuous rankings And, as you know, in particular, one of the items assessed in these reports refers to the percentage of health expenditure spent on hiring with private centres. In these reports it can be seen that Euskadi does not stand out at all. Moreover, the Euskadi Autonomous Communities table is located in an intermediate place, which means that the parties dedicated to concluding certain services are something normal and in the average of what they devote to the whole of public health systems. You are also aware that the economic contributions to concerts in Euskadi in recent years have been decreasing, as you have mentioned. The data has gone down from year to year. And, for example, this year, we're only doing 5 to 7% of the concerts. This year 2020, the Department of Health will dedicate less than 6% of its budget to concerts, as you have already mentioned. A small figure, and, in terms of percentage, as I said, in the average of what the health services of the rest of the autonomous communities devote, or I dare say it is even below. Between 2012 and 2020, spending on concerts rose from 7.2% to 5.97 %. Anyway, Mr Uria, I will tell you that public-private collaboration we understand that it can be natural and necessary and that we do not always have to look at it with suspicion. In addition, I think it should be remembered in this House that the main concerted services that the Department of Health has are the medium- and long-term psychiatric hospitals in Gipuzkoa, San Juan de Dios, Aita Menni and Usurbil, the Matia Foundation, the Clinic of the Assumption in Toulouse, the Network of Planned and Urgent Health Transport, oxygen therapy and other respiratory therapies at home, and some surgical interventions and complementary tests that are used to maintain waiting lists. We must not forget that the specialized companies that provide these services also generate employment and wealth, pay their taxes. And it is the public administration that, through compliance with the legislation, ensures free competitions and the quality of the service they provide. The truth is that in the public-private debate the key reference is that of the public or private ownership of the funds that are put at stake. Everything else, although important, can be quite circumstantial. Of course, to do this, we review it with equity criteria. I believe that it is a conceptual error to simply mix household spending with the outsourcing of some general services or to confuse privatization with concerted action without taking into account that the public funds are responsible for the provisional and economic coverage of the latter. The proportion of public expenditure versus private expenditure may depend on both the coverage of benefits and the economic availability of families, prices or sociological trends. And there can be no correct diagnosis, if a thorough dissection of each detail is not made and, at the same time, even if it seems paradoxical, an overall view. The Basque public health insurance and its consequent funding cover all the benefits recognised in the scope of the National Health System and even cover some more, all of them with a reasonably high level of quality, at least in comparison with our environment. Proof of this is, as you mentioned, that those patients with more complex pathologies or chronic or polymedic patients they trust are in the Basque health system. That's the way it is and the Basque society knows it. As I said at first, Osa is a great achievement of all of us, and society of euska is proud of it. From there, it is not the same that some services are not financed, glasses or cosmetic surgery, or that citizens, for whatever reasons, prefer to subscribe to private insurance. It is another debate that has nothing to do with the proper fulfilment of the responsibility that we have as Health Administration to adequately cover the services: to continue to ensure that those who really need a health care service have it and have it of quality, and that those who choose, as you have mentioned, can choose, be free to choose. That 26.8% and other figures to which you have referred, I think they mean very little about quality and what Osakidetza offers to the population. I would have preferred that we could focus on a debate on the issue of co-payment, for example, which is a relevant component of such private spending and on which, as you well know, in these years we have had all the room for manoeuvre we had. Accepting that the public system offers all or almost all the necessary services for health care, the very existence of private services and that some citizens opt for double coverage is a legitimate option that we respect. For our part, what we have to worry about is giving the best possible response in terms of population health, without demonizing anyone. In this sense, the financial effort we make and the results obtained are clear, and we believe that they are in harmony with the aspirations of the vast majority of the Basque population. Therefore, based on the overall results that I have been presenting to you, and on many others that I could also put to you, answering your question I will tell you that I am not clear on the question – it was about an audit – the meaning of the audit that you propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u115	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea. Comrade Murga, the question is very simple, do not make me repeat it again, but I will repeat it to you. If we have more than EUR 400 million in the public budget, and I am talking only about the public budget, which goes to the private sector, it is urgent to review the quality of the provision in terms of efficiency and health impact. That's the question. And what is the private sector? Where do the 400 million euros of Osakidetza come from? They get outsourced, whatever these are, I don't care. They come to consultancies and they come to concerts. You have told the truth, in the concerts we go down, it is true, and with the link of Oncological to Osakidetza, further down still, in fact, we do not reach even 6%. The problem is the permanent source of conflicts in outsourcing, for example, on the issue of ambulances, or in other types of concerts or consultancies. We have more than half of BIOEF's staff in precarious condition. BIOEF, our research and innovation institute, our brains: 52% of the staff are in precarious condition. There are people who have contracts every year for 14 years, with 82 staff positions. What do I mean? Since we do not review every euro that goes to the private sector with the same quality indicators that we use for the public sector – those of the contract-programme – with the same efficiency indicators that we use for our own services, with the same quality indicators in the attention that we use in our own services, I think we are not making a frank effort. If private sector coverage increases exponentially in recent years, it is not because people have more or less purchasing capacity, it is because waiting lists have been fired, with the lowest in the state. It's because waiting lists have been fired in primary, in specialties and in surgical interventions, until the Basurto and Urduliz O.R.s were opened, as you well know. People don't make sure in the private sector because they like to spend a policy. A policy, by the way, that is already in place for private insurance to have fewer and fewer benefits. Ready. It goes to the private sector and spends its money on policies, because it has some problems in the quality of the provision and in the coverage of the provision of the public system, any study supports it. One of the major indicators is waiting lists, but not only. The only thing we are saying, humbly, is that, as soon as possible, it is very convenient that we have criteria for evaluating the set of concerts and outsourcings that Osakidetza performs, that we review them. I'm not against the private, I'm in favor of the public, which is not the same. The other day in my headfishery, which is in the municipal market of Deusto, two women had the next conversation, this I have told several times, but not to you. "Hey, hey, look, look, you've made yourself equal." "Yes, I have made myself, yes, it is that he loves her." – Well, for urgent problems in Osakidetza they have less and less waiting list, for urgent problems. "Well, but it wasn't just because of that, it's also because it can be in a room, there's more comfort. "Well, well, but Osakidetza pulled out a circular, that terminal people and the most serious people could be in a room, for example, right here in Basurto. 'Yes, but that's not the reason either. It is that the same doctors are those of Basurto and those of Igualatorio. "Yes, therefore, precisely because they are the same doctors, why do you leave Osakidetza? "Well, in addition, what has determined me is that if there is any serious problem, they will immediately send me to Osakidetza del Igualatorio." This is a cartoon of reality, but that's what people say. In my opinion, since we do not have a proactive attitude to shield Osakidetza, to establish the incompatibilities of the heads of service and clinical management co-responsibility, to improve the coverage of the whole system and to use the same indicators in the evaluation of the quality of the service used for our own services, we are sold, compañera Murga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u116	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u117	Mr Uria, we agree that we are not for the privatization of the public health system, nor have we ever been by the department, nor are we going to be. And we will continue to bring concrete facts that demonstrate this. And I am going to refer to the conclusion of a renowned professor, who is an expert in health systems, who is Professor Repullo. I'm sure you know him and read him. This professor concluded the following in one of his articles in which he evaluated in which services provides more or less a concert, the balance of potential advantages and disadvantages, and, in our context, "it seems positive the concertation in general services, very doubtful the concertation in the central services and unrecommended in services and clinical centers". Well, in volume, most of the outsourcing that takes place in Osakidetza corresponds to these general services in which, I say, experts themselves in these areas conclude that the risk is lower. Moreover, this professor also considers that one of the major weaknesses of outsourcing is precisely the difficulty of aligning the interests between the public buyer and the outsourced supplier, which leads to the risk of efficiency and quality if recruitment models and performance indicators are not improved or modulated. In this sense, I think that is what you ask, the Department of Health already establishes in its contracts control mechanisms, as is the contract-program and, for example, in the concert of ambulances, coordination and its activity is managed from emergencies and is measured according to the same criteria, any of the ambulances that comes and whatever service it gives. You know all the ways the government has for control, and every department, and generally in the Euskon, and even through this parliament. And in order to provide you with more data and to be even more transparent, I would like to tell you that the Basque Government Department's commitment to concluding certain services is 32 % dedicated to health transport, 15 % to outpatient concerts, 27 % to surgical activity, 13 % to mental health and 11 % to social and health agreements with the Member States. I would therefore like to repeat once again that I am not clear what the usefulness of these audits is, but that we need to improve this form of evaluation that we already have under way. Nor do I think it is appropriate to mix outsourcing of services with concerted action, because they are two aspects of a completely different nature, agents, motivations and procedures. Nor do I consider it appropriate to talk about concerts generically and apply to them all the same standards of evaluation, efficiency, because each responds to different reasons and circumstances. In conclusion, and in other words, we do not intend to undertake the audit that you propose, but to continue with strict monitoring in the award and evaluation of these services. But we have always been, and will be, ready to assess the feasibility and methodological rigour of your proposal and, of course, to act accordingly. I invite you to contribute that set of meters or evaluation that can help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Reformation, Rebeka Ubera Aranz, and EH, made for the head of the Medical Department, concerning the management of the vital media." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u119	Good noon, everyone. First of all, our confession and our thanks to the workers of emergency, especially to the female workers who are working at the Horselands at this moment. As you know, we have in the emigrations the following: Partners, technicians, edgers and firemen. And among them we have ambulances, emergency ambulances. These may be doctors, nurses, and basics, and their function, the function they perform, is very important, in most cases, because life is at stake. And the management of emergency management, protocols, time, time, coordinate centers are highly influenced. But in recent years, it has been shown that for this government the emigence is no longer a primary service. The management is really doing a terrible thing: the privatization of service, the nomination of officials who don't know the females, the premification of the subjugations of the ambulances, the centralization of the centro-coordinator... Portcito On December 31, suddenly the service was abandoned, and through the professionality of the workers the service had been maintained. And it's not the first time, but it happened five years ago and it happened even now 17 years ago. And then we've got the situation in the U.A. So, Mrs. Murga, what else does it take to change the management of the female mind?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u121	Mrs. President, Congressman, chief physician. I agree with you, Mrs Ubera, that, as you point out in your question, emergencies are a fundamental link in health services and cannot fail. Hence, I begin my intervention by publicly thanking the daily work that they do – and today, especially, the people in Zaldibar – this work that they do a group of professionals, and that also enhances the management capacity of the Department of Health, even in the face of unforeseen events. Because I can understand that they have, day and day too, to criticize the health system. But they will also understand that our job is that Osakidetza remains the system in which thousands of Basques and Basques rely on their daily health. And year after year we continue to expand the budget to maintain and strengthen a public and quality system in Euskadi, also in emergencies. While you are referring in your question to constant bumps and, in particular, the resignation of one of the contracting companies from continuing to provide the service, I would like to point out that the Osakidetza Department of Health and Emergency, with a limited time and on a really complicated date, analysed the situation and resolved it. We acted quickly, we acted effectively, and, above all, it was ensured, as it was, that no person who had to be transferred to an ambulance urgently after 12 p.m. on the night of 31 December, was without this service. And it was guaranteed that this one was out of quality. On New Year's Day, no one was out of ambulances. There's the difference, Mrs. Ubera. You always fight and we deal with problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u123	To deal with matters is to solve them and give them answers. And, look, Mrs. Murga, this is where you're staying behind. The Baler Islands took a step. Even the Navarre is about to step. We have placed a thousand proposals on the table, with the will to agree with you. And you refused. In the former legislation, we encouraged the contract of employment at EAE without success, and you did it in this legislation. We also proposed to create the Emergence Agency for a change of management, because they are a group of jobs, and it is important to have co-ordination and information of all the departments. Look what happened to the Horsebars, the edge union has charged him because they left unintelligently. We've also proposed that an autonomous organism should take management. We've proposed to use the system used in Onkologically for publication. We've agreed to integrate it into the SDAE territory, the land centers, because the edge must also integrate with the crew. We've suggested that we improve the resources we have. We have proposed that emergence inserts into the clinical history, because it is not yet in clinical history. There are old homes, but there are no emergencys. So you'd rather stay in bad management than introduce improvements. And we've made a proposal, not against it. We've put positive propositions, measures, answers, and we'd like to place them. You have them at once on the table, and if you do not finish the legislation, we will discuss and agree. Because we want to improve the Emergence, because life is at stake, and their answer is extremely important. And here are you the Emergence...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u125	Mrs Ubera, again I invite you to look at the department's budgets for 2020, and you will see how the expenditure on health transport, within the concerts, has increased by 14% over the previous year. This is because we have assumed the cost of implementing the autonomous collective agreement on the transport of persons, which you have so often urged us to favour and which is finally a reality since 1 January. You always look or point at the half empty glass. This will match the conditions of all workers in the sector and substantially improve them. But that is clear that it is not in any interest to value it at this time. I would like you to seek the opinion of the LAB union in this regard, and ask for your assessment of the role played by the Department of Health in achieving this agreement. I remind you again that Basque, with 1,801 euros per person, will again be this year the autonomous community that spends the most money on health. And, therefore, I do not like the continuous talk of privatizations of the system. The ambulance service in Euskadi, and in most autonomous communities, has been outsourced for many years. And it is still to be demonstrated that it is less efficient than managing it exclusively with public resources. A service that, not to be forgotten, also generates employment – starting on 1 January, of higher quality – which is regulated and contracted from the Department of Health on the basis of public competitions and specific quality standards that must be respected. And the study, as we have answered in writing, is underway.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Time is up. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Ask me, Juan Uria Serranus, a member of the Society of Podemos to the chief physician of the Medical Department, with respect to the preterogeneous centres of the Biscabilation units on the left side of the firm." Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u127	Mrs. Tejeria, the company Murga, hello again, everyone. Indeed, it is up to the opposition to control and criticize the Government; that is what they raise in the law. But we also make proposals, has been well explained by comrade Ubera. We make proposals for improvement and proactive proposals. For example, this issue of today's question that I am going to ask you is an initiative that we proposed in the Health Commission – which seemed very interesting to former Councillor Jon Darpón – which is to set up rehabilitation units for complex pathologies in primary health care centers. In fact, not only did he feel well, but he set up a rehabilitation unit at the Zaramaga health centre in Gasteiz. An evaluation has been made: more than 500 patients have appeared in the center, it is a success, and it has been decided to extend the experience. In the budgets we have supported we talked about a number of physiotherapists to be able to set up several rehabilitation centers in primary health care centers, very focused on uncomplicated pathologies and elderly people. Will any of these centers develop? I've been told it's spreading in Vitoria. Will any of these centers develop – which is why I came out here, my concern – in the Left Margin of Bizkaia?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u128	Thank you, Mr. Uria. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u129	Mrs. President, Congressman, Mr. Uria. The project of the deployment of physiotherapy as part of the portfolio of primary care services is an action contemplated in our Strategy for Primary Care in Euskadi, for the whole of Euskadi, of course, also in the area to which you refer. And we are convinced that it will provide us with very positive results. That is why we want to deploy physiotherapy, but gradually, to all primary care units throughout the Euskadi. The first piloting of this action was launched, in November 2018, in three primary care units of the Arab OSI. The objective is to facilitate referral of patients from primary care to physiotherapy, under a treatment protocol agreed with the rehabilitation service. As you will know, this experience is based on the fundamental group approach and health promotion, in order to contribute to the empowerment of patients. In addition, it proposes to work in coordination with the municipal sports activities program in order to improve the evolution of the different osteomuscular pathologies, mainly. I will tell you that at this time it is almost 700 patients who have benefited from this program, derived from five primary care units: Zabalgana, Sansomendi and San Martín, in a first phase, and Olarizu and Gazalbide, in a second. I would add that the results of the piloting we have carried out are satisfactory and that, as of 23 January this year, the potential population on which the programme is available is 95,000 people, per month in more than 60% of the cases, practically the whole of the programme. And the clinical improvement is 85% of the patients evaluated, with a degree of satisfaction close to nine out of ten. For this reason, our efforts today are aimed at ensuring that professionals from all primary care units of the Arab OSI, 22 exactly, can derive patients. That is why I can tell you that during this first quarter, in particular by 15 March, we will have enabled two new gyms in Salburua and Lakuabizkarra. So, Mr. Uria, as I said, we'll continue to open this program: Arban first, then afterwards to Biscare and Gipulia. To carry out this program, structural aspects are necessary, as well as staffing adequacy. And to conduct a progressive pilotage, evaluating, we believe it is the formula to do so. And of course we plan to reach the whole of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u131	Bakartxo Tejeria. Well, we're done. I thank you very much, counselor, for the answer: I knew her. Precisely, my question was: "If these rehabilitation units are extended to more health centres in Gasteiz, which are successful, especially for the elderly, we run out of places." I said, "We're running out of physical therapists." So, I say, let's see why we don't put the issue of health inequalities, the issue of the criterion of necessity, at the top of our decisions. Barakaldo, Sestao, in my village, Santurtzi, Portugalete: over 65 years old, the oldest of all Euskadi, increase of long-term unemployed, the largest of all Euskadi, with Pasaia and with Basauri. The unemployment rates, not 10%, the highest, together with Pasaia and Basauri. The waiting lists in rehab, which I saw last week, the highest, along with Bilbao. It's okay what you said, I agree and I have nothing more than where to sign? But, of course, if you put three or four rehabilitation centers with physical
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u132	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u133	Uria jauna, we agree on an integral model for addressing osteomuscular pains, and knows that this bet is firm and that, in addition, we believe in primary care. It has been the Department of Health and Osakidetza that have put this activity and are promoting and developing it in recent years, based on the Primary Care Strategy. Therefore, as I have already pointed out, our efforts during this semester are going to focus on consolidating physiotherapy in the territory of Alava, and, subsequently, from the second semester onwards, we will, according to the resources – which you have already mentioned, are necessary – to carry out its extension, to the extent of these resources, in the territory of Bizkaia, also counting on the reorganization, prioritizing its extension, as always, by virtue of the identified needs and the existing physical structure or the works that must be undertaken in order to adapt the gymnasiums, but of course, taking into account the inequalities of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The twentieth point in the theme list: "Intertermination, the law of the Casanova Alonso ARRRRRRAINS OF THE CARRRIEDS OF THE CARRIEDS OF TRIANGUE, CARRIA, AND CARRIA, which has been made for the monographic meeting of the 28th of October, to set up resolutions in order to promote small commerce, and to set up the project and the calendar of the EuskOGAN. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u135	Good noon, everyone. A few years ago I saw a friend carrying a book that had a very curious title, said the title I don't know if to marry or buy me a dog And I say it's paradoxical, and, well, I'm going to charge the same and I'm going to work the same and I'm going to have to do the same, but it seems a little sad to me that society is like this, because there are people who are looking at the things that are being processed here, there are laws that affect third parties that are being processed and that right now you don't know how they're going to stay, and I think we had to have a little more clarity, right? But let's get on with the subject today. The subject of the present day, as I was saying, was to ask the Government about the future, to ask about future plans, knowing that this government, which will have the future, or the procedure of choosing another government next Tuesday, will be put into action. Nevertheless, we will do our work, though others do not do it properly. We'll discuss small trades tonight, and it's not the first, luckily. And it's not the first time that our team brings the subject because we're insisted on giving the real importance of this matter. Let's start with two examples. There are only two examples, two drops in an example area. First, a press headline: "Cierran tres comercios hystóros de la Vieja de San Sebastián." Unfortunately, information of this kind is now becoming in the newspapers a proper genus, information about historical trades. And so they do, among other things, because they know that such shops are more than one empty store, and that such new people are interested in the public. The second example, it's not an example, it's dated in this case, it's Eustatated today's data. I can imagine you know what the data he gave me this morning. If we see the Titus, the last quarter of the month, the sales went up to $1,2 in small trade. But if we read the little letter, we could read that the sale of the sector without entering the gas station was rate 0.4 years ago. So the sales of the little commerce were lowered again. As I said, it's only two examples. And I never will, and I have remarked more than once, that all this is the fault of your government, of course not. There are deep tendencies there. I remember the months after the crisis in 2008 that PP pulled out a mantra called "la Crisis se llama José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero." That wasn't true, and it wouldn't be true to say that it's the responsibility of your government, the state of commerce today, because we know that there are inclinations behind them. We know in general that small commerce is everywhere or in most cases uneasy, but it is true that we must face this general tendency with the tools we have, to stop the tentitude, and to convert it as far as possible. In this direction, we believe it was an important boundary that was made on the 28th of November, a monographic pleno. Our team called the plonee, but I think there was a very constructive position from all the groups, as well as from your government. Instead of being shut up in the ivory tower, we saw that there was a will to listen to, that there was a will to arrive in the arrangement. We hope that what we have to prove today is that there was also the will to comply with those agreements that come in. We have heard you praise the value of this Plenius in public at least in two different actions which I was in the position of an audience. I think that's merit, after all, an initiative that isn't your government's, an initiative that comes from the impulse of opposition. And I think you were right, among other things, because there were high-level disputes, because they shared very interesting considerations, and especially because they tried many resolutions. And at least there were certain very interesting keys to face the situation. Today we're here to ask what point is the level of filling, the level of completion of those agreed to. After all, it's logical that our purpose wasn't to have a nice discussion in the ploneyone, to try a lot of solutions, and keep what's done in a drawer and never remember it again. We thought, in some measure, that a page of the road had been tested, or that it had been agreed, to encourage public policies in this respect. At that moment, we divided our contributions into six sections. And I think, after all, the resolutions agreed could also be classed in these six categories. I shall mention what they are, and then, not one by one, because they were finally 85 resolutions, but I shall exactly quote a dozen subjects, which seem to me very interesting, which we understand to be central, without despising the others. And we would like to know, as it is said in the text of the interpelration, what are the intentions, plans, and calendars about it. We established it in this place, and said that we wanted to be proposed, and that politics could be divided into six sections to promote and carry on a small commerce: on the one hand, the dynamics for increasing the rating; on the other hand, resolutions or initiatives for a new and shared administration; the third, equality of all sectors, free competition, but in equality, or the same conditions, to make politics; the politics, the promotements, and a great many technical things must be done for the advancement of merchants and shops; and lastly, for the rights of labour. And in those six sections, as I have said, they tested 85 resolutions. And I'll collect some of them, and I'd like to know what your government is about. Number one, promotion campaigns. We agreed to make permanent promotions, shared with the sector, to get to the new sectors. Well, it wasn't the only solution around the bells and promotion. There were some, but they were all summed up: in a permanent and regular manner, we engaged to encourage and strengthen the protection required by the sector by public campaigns. Secondly, to increase the budget, and here I know that the parties that support your government didn't agree with what was tested, but what proved was this: For years, 25% of them had to go up. And now, in the first army, we have seen how this has not been accomplished, whether it is intended to be fulfilled in the future. As to the administration, we agreed to restore the consular table. And we thought of some kind of statesyor. And, to finish, with this first piece. Then, rather than replication, I think I shall have occasion to ask another set of questions. But I'd like to know what your government will be like now, and especially about a subject that cares very much about the Gipuese businessman, because he thinks it's important to us. I'm talking about abortions in front of the state of the commercial macrotro in the Battle of sand, or in front of the Dyamik, your government planning. That's all, in the first instance. And next time, apart from the replica, there's more questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u136	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. To answer, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours. The chief physician of Tourism, Commerce, and Contsumus Thank you for your interest, Mr. Casanova. During this legislation, I would like to begin my speech by showing and thanking the sensibility that all political groups have shown to the coast of the Eucadian commerce. We would like to continue to maintain the consensus reached in the full monograph, with various motions expressing recognition of a vital sector for our society. The trade sector, as we have said on more than one occasion, suffered the effects of the crisis with greater intensity than other areas of economic activity. And now it is facing a conversion that is fundamentally motivated by social changes in consumption. Basque trade is building on a more competitive, better prepared and more professional model. According to the data provided by the latest retail trade index, as you have pointed out, retail sales in the autonomous community have risen by 2.1 in the third quarter and, in fact, the cumulative of the year has been 0.9, as just published this morning. Even though the number of establishments has fallen by 2.9%, the number of jobs per establishment has also increased, which also explains the improvement of their competitiveness. It is a model change that is being carried out gradually, with the support of the institutions in the form of training, entrepreneurship and rejuvenation programmes for the sector. We have made a bid for small trade, for a city with its own distinct commercial identity, as well as for the commercial development of the most disadvantaged neighbourhoods. In the text of your inquiry, you referred to the actions that we have taken after the monographic plenary session. In this regard, I would like to highlight that many of the actions approved in the monograph were already part of the management developed by the department based on the Strategic Trade Plan 2017-2020. It is also true that we incorporate many very interesting and novel recommendations, so the degree of compliance with them is also high. And I'm going to go over some of the most relevant aspects and developments to answer your questions. If we talk about the budget, the Directorate for Trade 2020 has tripled its allocation in areas such as those corresponding to the campaigns for the promotion of trade and communication. The 2020 financial year will have two retail sector image campaigns. The aim of these actions is to transform the image and social perception of trade, and to make it professional. In any case, we continue to call on this Parliament to continue the commitment made by all groups in the full monograph to support budget increases in the coming years. With regard to governance, there is a clear commitment to strengthening trade policies since the strengthening of public leadership as a form of work, maintaining a constant and fluid dialogue with the sector, with all its actors, in particular with the instruments of regular dialogue and also with new figures. In the past year, industry actors have been incorporated into commissions and working groups of the various projects launched. We have also established forums for reflection that have a quarterly periodicity. We have strengthened the capacity of the Basque trade federations, consolidating in the 2020 budgets the subsidies for their structural expenditure. On the other hand, we are preparing a study to obtain an X-ray of the commercial associative sector in Euskadi, its size, its capacity for representation and governance to establish the patterns of the next budgetary allocations and also the amendment of the Advisory Committee Decree. We believe that governance and transparency must be at the centre of all our actions. For this reason, the Department of Commerce has also incorporated external evaluation into its aid orders and grant plans, to ensure the optimization and dynamism of aid programmes and lines. The findings of these evaluations are already being incorporated into the new calls. If we are talking about modernisation, we must highlight the programme of support for the modernisation of commercial establishments, which also strengthen the competitiveness of the sector in this exercise with investment aid, both for the reform and the modernisation of premises and the updating of equipment. This programme has undergone a profound change in which its strategic objectives have been reformulated. In 2019, the average level of investment has been sustained and improved and, in this call, in 2020, what we are looking for is the promotion of innovative projects and more transformative investments. But the change of model requires new actors to be incorporated into the sector. We will therefore continue to encourage entrepreneurship with the Emco aid programme. This programme, which was long demanded by the sector, has been successful in welcoming companies in 2019. And a long-term transformation scenario, with synergies with other programs, such as Hirigune, and with the value of trade in municipal economic development services. For its part, Berriz Empresa is a service that is also being consolidated and that facilitates business continuity in Euskadi. It also helps with entrepreneurship and rejuvenation. Hirigune remains the consolidated programme for the hybridization of trade and urban economy and the strengthening of the search for proximity. In this call we will expand the training to the actors involved and promote the baremas for those interventions that are more innovative and with greater capacity for change. We will continue to count on the urban platforms of the capitals as pioneering spaces for innovation. We put as a model of study and good practice the case of Vitoria-Gasteiz, to extend the convergence of policies of dynamism and competitiveness in the urban space. One of the actions approved in the monographal plenary, requested from the Government, was that of a further effort in the so-called disadvantaged areas. This year, moreover, will be the definitive deployment of the program called "Responsible Purchasing Tourism". The program that integrates the concept of classic shopping tourism with the idea of responsible management of the tourist destination, in order to integrate the proximity and unique trade in the tourist promotion strategies of Euskadi, and show the visitor a unique and sustainable country image. We have signed with the World Tourism Organization in the recent edition of Fitur, precisely, a memorandum of understanding, with the aim of deepening collaboration and achieving common goals. It is a satisfaction for Euskadi, which with this sectoral hybridization is a model for other countries and regions, thanks to the piloting of Euskadi with the World Tourism Organization. And if we're talking about our latest running programs, I have to quote the Basque Retail School, which we've launched in this last quarter of 2019. It is the comprehensive training programme for the trade sector, in order to provide a relevant training offer for the professionalisation and improvement of the competitiveness of the sector. And it is a training platform of the Basque commercial sector with constantly updated content, posed with flexible formats and schedules, and based on personalized advice. After 540 diagnoses carried out with the collaboration of various actors in the sector, training needs for 2020 will be identified. This school, however, already offers tailor-made online training and expertise In the market intelligence section, in the retail sector We have done a reflection on the digitisation lines of the department, which are mainly based on the Euskomer programme. In the past year we have made a significant leap, with a growth of 240%, and in 2020, given the results, good or favorable in the search for the transformative impact, we will try to approach an integrated digitalisation strategy that involves coordination with other programmes and optimisation of collaboration with the different actors in the sector. I hope I have answered some of your questions and, if not, I will continue to do so in the second round.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Mr. Casanova, yours is. casanova alonso The partner who sits next to me used to say: "It's a shoe. "And it is true that many things are capable in a single interpelation, but I thought it necessary to force them to make a kind of disturbance. It's essential to go on with the things that are tested and the things they say. After all, I don't think there's a great deal of difference about this subject, about the titles. We all say that we're on the side of small trade, and we're almost all proposing a similar line. But it's important that what's done is to do what's right and follow the commitments, and that's what we're here today. Around the former, you have told me that there has been growth and there has been growth, but growth has not been at all what this legislature demanded, and what this legislature demanded was not a caprice. It was a bet to give it to trade, and to give it to the nicest supporters of the merchants, the proportional weight of trade in our society. We believe that, though there has been growth, it has not yet been fulfilled, and that this gravity follows, and therefore we ask you to fulfil it, as far as possible, or rather to fill it with complete completeness, in order to begin this process of doubling the budgets, because it really requires much more resources. As to historical shops, we also agreed to set a figure in motion, and you didn't tell us anything, so I just put it just as an example. I think sentimentally, but even socially and cultureally, that traditional shops have an enormous weight in our pictures and that it's important to create an official figure to prevent it and protect it as soon as we can, because we see that a lot of drops are disappearing, and we think it's important to put concrete and effective measures to protect it behind that figure. Either you did not explain me or at least I did not understand, as far as all the facts are concerned, what the procedure of reversing the organ will be. You've told me that groups of jobs have been created with different agents, that the interlocation has been re-activated, and so on. But you didn't tell me that organ, arranged enough and prescribed by a decree, will resume its activity, and when it will be established, as is defined. I think it is important that several measures of which we are speaking must be discussed, and that, in some measure, they must be defined, defined, or composed. We were asking for a dynamic starting in Made in Basque Country in a different solution. Then there are two important subjects, which, I think, you have not treated properly, or which you have not answered. They're interesting, we think, because at this moment, social, powerful movements are behind them. And even if they weren't, because the matter, in itself, has a very important significance. One is the woman's and the other the environment. And here it was proposed that the dynamics to strengthen and estimate the presence of woman in trade, and even the dynamics to improve from the standpoint of the neurogetic efficiency, and to improve the aspect of the country or of the environment, and increase the science of science. Also, it is important to trade merchants that at the present time we have a government of the same colour as you, to examine the rates and seasons of exchange in Madrid, from the merchants and from the labourers of trade constant complaints, so that they may resume their hours in this direction, in order to ensure that they may be settled and rested here. I think time's going on, my time's almost up. I do not know whether the time of this legislation is at an end, but if these are the last words, they may be the means of establishing a small commerce, and of declaring the protection which we ought to give to the little commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u138	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours. Chiefs of Tourism, Commsimus and Commerce Casanova jauna, yes, indeed, regarding the traditional shop model, the traditional and unique shop figure and the support or promotion of the product "local industry", what we call the Made in Basque Country As far as governance is concerned. Indeed, we are working on two aspects that came out and were approved in the monograph as major developments. One of them was the study of the representativeness of the sector, that x-ray of the sector he commented on, as a previous and also necessary step and useful for the amendment of the current decree regulating the Advisory Committee, which was the table to which he referred. But while we are taking steps in this area, we do not stop having a fluid dialogue with the sector, both in the more ordinary mechanisms that already existed, and in the most innovative ones of this year, which have been the creation of different commissions, as I said before, and working groups for projects that we are launching, such as the Basque School of Retail or the Euskomer itself, which, although managed by the chambers, also participate in it already since this year the federations. And we have also established forums for reflection with the sector where the whole sector is, from retail or proximity trade, to put it well, to the large area, where we debate or share topical issues of interest to the sector. And we do it on a quarterly basis. With this, as I say, while we continue to work and implement those mechanisms, we do not stop having that dialogue. It is also true that it is a short temporary space that has passed from the full monograph and that many of the recommendations have been incorporated into the programmes and actions. Others were already included in the Master Plan, as I mentioned earlier, and will continue to be developed throughout 2020. In conclusion, I also wanted to stress that what exists is a collaborative integration of the associative and guerreal fabric around our tractor projects, as I mentioned earlier. And that is also what we value as a great achievement, that is, to work on that cross-cutting and that all actors in the sector work together and in collaboration with the Administration as well. That is why we also highlight the effort of the structures of associationism and permanent dialogue, as it opens the door to the improvement of the impacts of the programmes and the synergies between them. Finally, I do not want to forget the important role of women in the trade sector and in society as a whole. This is why the department has promoted the adoption of social criteria that allow, by means of bonuses in our aid lines and in the different programmes we have, the indefinite employment and the inclusion of women on equal terms in the labour market. In particular, we have included a programme of aid, such as the Emco programme of entrepreneurship, and we have also just carried out a study on the gender perspective in the Basque trade sector, which we will shortly be presenting. A very interesting study because, in our opinion, it breaks many myths or prefixed ideas and gives us a very interesting reality of the social and economic role that women have in this very important sector of activity. For our part, therefore, is the commitment to continue working, to provide resources, training, aid, programmes to the retail sector I'm done. The model we are going to in the future will be a model that will retain some of the best features of traditional trade with the transversality of the new digital scenarios. We have very important consensus on trade that has been reached in this legislature. Our policies must be directed now and in the future towards the consolidation of those competitive business projects, and that does not sometimes involve both size and professionalism. We will continue to work, above all, to raise awareness among consumers. Because whenever I am given the opportunity I will also appeal to consumer responsibility and to the new form of consumption, so that the value of the purchase is fixed more and not so much on the price. Basque commerce business...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-02-07.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Time's up. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and nine.
