ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u0	Good morning, and welcome to the legislature. Single point in theme list: It's called "The President of New York." According to the article 165.3 of the Rule, the first secretary has the word to read the names of the candidates proposed by political groups in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u1	Now when the heralds of the party gathered together, the men of Iriart, the son of Okiña, the son of Maddalen, and the envoys of the Euzbertians, Urkullu, Renteria,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u2	In accordance with this article 165.3, the candidates will speak according to the number of the supporters, from the smallest to the greatest. The President Okiñena is speaking at the most 90 minutes. It's your word, Mrs. Irriart.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u3	Mr. President of Parliament, members of the active government, members of the House of Parliament, and the different Mayors of the Basque Country who have come to protect my nomination, representatives of the prisoner's family and of the Basque Country, all good days and a thousand thanks for being here. It's time for action. It's time to act. Time to put the paralysis aside and move. It's time to turn away from improv and begin the tour of the future. The time for getting out of comfort and taking risks is because there's a lot at stake, and there'll be a lot of gambling in the next few months. The Basque People, this part of our land which this Parliament represents, cannot continue to wander. It's time to take measures, no excuses. With double eyes, to give quick solution to the subjects that need an answer at this moment, to give us the trouble that the sanitary, economic, and psychotic crisis has put us on the table, and to discuss and decide the strategic changes to be made in the course of the year as a people. 1,579 people have died for the last six months in Aran, Bazay, Gipuzian, coronabirus. Thousands and thousands have been in hospitals, and today there are hundreds of people. I wanted to show them solidarity and support, from this first moment to every one, especially to every person who has lost a family person or a friend. The Coronaaurus put us in front of the mirror: he has shown us the weaknesses we have in society, and has encouraged them; but he has shown us what means of strength they are. And he plainly shows that it is necessary to make a new method of politics, a new form of government. The crisis has revealed the need of strong public services. It has not been a private area that draws the wagon of public services, such as health, care, or education. Priblationization and other paradigms of neoliberary model have come down in this sense. The crisis has revealed the march of our country, and the economic march is at the expense of ill-paid and premeditated men. This town has been inhabited by farmers, fishermen, farmers, distributors, traders, chauffeurs, teachers, nurses, doctors, and doctors, not by anyone who sits in the administrative councils. And this doctrine, I think, will have consequences for a long time. The crisis has revealed the strength of these women: the majority are women among those who have faced the virus in the first line. And even in education, be a teacher, a cleaner, a watcher, or a nurse. And there's nothing to say about those who work at the old buildings. And there have been women also, when some one has fallen ill at home, who have taken the right care of him, in most cases. And if this be so, we still have here a great many attacks and difficulties against equality. It's time for all of them to end, for once. Now, he's here. For this crisis has revealed to us all the violence, the continual violence of women, and another pandemy that is suffered by this people. The crisis of the Coronabirus has also given us a chance of re-establishing and restoring our priorities. Family, family, friends, love, happiness... they have become a very important word. We've learned that it's possible to get away from the model driven by global capitalism. A little less convinced that, even if we spent less energy, we could go on; and, like a person and as a country, we spend the money we spend on expense that have no clear value, perhaps we should spend it on science and technology, or go to education or study. It was enough that nature should advance two steps: smaller gas leaks, restored spaces... This need, no doubt, to change the pattern hitherto established, was in the midst of the public debate; but now it is far more powerful in the midst of the public. And the importance of association, of cooperation, of cooperation, of the neighbourhood, and of self-determination is another thing which has been exposed by the crisis. In some places it has been clearly seen that he has produced excellent results, and I should like to remember, in this sense, what we have seen in the several councils of the Basque Country in the United States, but in other cases it has been shown to be the effect of refusing these fundamental values. These will be the main axis of the political art of the year following, and we must take them by necessity; the content and the forms, what to do and how to do, I think they are both together. And I particularly wish to emphasise this idea, that we shall only succeed in gaining strength from association and co-operation; not from the disposition, nor from giving them a single opportunity, nor from the consideration of social agents as enemies, but from the consideration of organized groups of citizens, not from the thought that the Government is superior to the people. Therefore, I propose a transition: A transition. And in this transition, the Basque Country wants to be the power of women and men in this country. We held out our hand and thousands of people grabbed that hand. Faced with "this is what there is," we are certain that more and more people are not resigned and are willing to change, to change because our future and the future of our children and daughters depends on that change, because we know that there are aspects in which we are already going too late. That's why we propose a transition, a feminist, ecological, advanced social transition, based on a strengthened public system, a transition in which we put people's lives in the center, care in the center. Herritarrak zaintzeko eta babesteko trantsizioa, elkar zaintzen duen eta babesten duen komunitate baterako. During the confinations, I've been able to see an interview with Angela Davis, a feminist, and Naomi Klein. And they thought of the new normality, of the new normality that is repeated over and over. Klein says that some people talk about normality, but normality was a crisis, the most vulnerable, the women, the workers' crisis. And Davis, pulling it at him, says that the answer must be a feminist because there are women in the first row of the crisis. Perhaps some one may think that this is not the case here, or that we are far from these circumstances. You'll see the patriarchal democracy of the Euscal Autonomy Euscal Enomia Errican at work in the results, even in Araban, Bukka, and in the gym, when you look at all the indications of the welfare of women, all of them fall. That the patrician rules in public and in his deeds. So it's urgent, and I want to stress the feminist transition. And a transition is necessary for science, culture, and language 21st. even in order to subdue them, a new creation of culture. A transition to the young people of this country, who have only known the dignity and the crisis after the crisis, to make worthy plans of life, to become masters of the preponderance which this people requires. Because we owe this inheritance to those who are coming, because we owe this inheritance to those who are now born, and we owe it to those who are born. We know. We know that the road won't be easy. As we know, this people, in very difficult times, has placed its collective intelligence, its strength, and its commitment to change the circumstances. And she's changed and she's built and she invented and she got up and went on. I mean to say to this people, that, as often as the great projects of this country have been advanced, it is necessary that the complexity of the citizens, their word, and their decision should be made action. Therefore, when we proclaim popular traditions, we think that it is necessary that the people should be placed in the midst of these decisions. This cannot be asked once in four years, and a means of forming a field of power. Otherwise, as we have seen in the last elections, we shall see that there is more and more desolation on the side of the people, with the dreadful consequences of it. "The people's covenants [are] to give answers to the people, and the people [are] in the midst of the people; they [are] in the midst of the people. They [are] in the midst of the people. They [are] to be protected by the people. It's the popular traditions that brought us all this way to change public policies in the direction. I, and we, we want to lead that change. I'll ask again in the last few months the question I've asked: Have we ever learned anything from the last crisis? There is no popular alliance for us if the citizens are left behind, if those who are most in need are forgotten, if this crisis is paid by the eternal, if this crisis is also on the shoulders of the people, and if it passes for the benefit of the elites. To protect the people, to create worthy plans of life, to enable us and our descendants to live on a vital planet, to face the violent pandemy we women suffer, not to look at those who die in the world in the eleven medicines, we need a transition. All rights to all people. If we get a real life, change is necessary. And this is the floor for the transition we propose, the basis for social justice. And therefore for all that reason, it is necessary that this people should have all the tools of determining its future. I have often heard in the last few days that this is not the time to bring the political project of this country, the national project, and the discussion. But I will say now that it is more than ever time to bring this dispute into the midst of politics. To these challenges, these questions, because we need all the means of answering the wants of the people, respecting the people's promises and decisions. We propose a transition to a change of direction; because, if we continue to do the same, the result can never be different, we will never be able to respond to people as it deserves. Let us therefore talk about what concerns us. We are mothers, parents, caregivers; we have friends in institutes, ikastolas, schools; our son has been made a PCR and has been negative; we have friends who have died from the coronavirus; we have colleagues in ERTE; we have children with precarious jobs, with non-precarious, unemployed... Thousands of people today attended anguished hours before the start of the school year; teachers, teachers, teachers, parents, mothers, children, girls, boys and girls, who face with fear a course full of difficulties. Education is not a simple word, education is not a curricular content. It will, as I said, be the direct responsibility of the Administration that the supply of masks and other material will not fail; but, for the rest of the issues, it is urgent to make decisions on the maximum number of pupils per classroom. We cannot discourage meetings of more than ten people at home and bring more than 20 people together in a classroom; we need to lower the ratios to 15, which will require more staff to achieve that goal. We are going to adapt the curricular content for real; we are going to take care of the health of professionals and students in an integral way, and we must do all this from the agreement, from cooperation, giving the floor to teachers, teachers, workers, trade unions, municipalities, mothers, parents and students. Let us show that we believe in the values that inspire our educational system, and let us also get to work to build the foundations of education for the future. The economic reductions of the last decade, the neglect shown by various education departments, and the dependence on Spain, have condemned our education system to lock up. The Basque Country wagers for an independent public system of education, universal, lascalic, eloquenceal, and no one to be left behind, self-inclusive and consistent, founded on euscal curriculum; pedagogia feminist, who believes in the autonomy of the centres, and the direct participation of the local institutions. And it must be the function of this legislation to accept a new law of eucalyptic education for the transition which these content will consider, as the result of a process which is a part of all agents, clear and democratic. A real popular tradition that will become a law. Education must also be fully considered as a connection to the work-world. Education and the university themselves, but in the same way as the opportunity to enter the work-world, education system can't have an empty supply system to create cheap and qualified hands. Because it's more than that education. With education the growth of economy and of the people will follow, but also the culture of creation; The passion for inquiry will come from education, the tendency to reform things will come from education. We want it to be a world-referent education system, a scientific people, because we want it and need it, a Basque and eloquent, who will give us a chance to bring the world to ours and expand ours into the world, and encourage wisdom. This people have a talent for it, and now they need will. I have mentioned eucalyptic and eloquent education, and I should like to make a special account of the euchares in the pandema, the euchas also in the pandemia, for the loss of many people is the only refuge for the eucaments of many people. And, in front of this, we must take measures to diagnose accurately the challenges of our language, and lead us to the solution. We need a healthy country. Euscala's health system has revealed the weakness and strength of the coronabirus. No doubt, they've been professional members of the Osapartics in the main force area. And I think the work they're doing this summer, like what they did in spring, deserves the same shower level of applause. Ahulezietan, urtetako atzerakada eta murrizketak agerian gelditu dira. Euskal Autonomia Erkidegoan gastu sanitaria publikoak atzera egin du azken urteotan; 2018ko azken datuak barne-produktu gororren % 5.3an jartzen gaitu. This 5.3% share of public health spending is not only below the European average, but has fallen from the maximum of 6.3 we had in 2009. And that, which is the result of the priorities that the last governments have set, here is a cost: it suffers the health of the people. Egoera hori hasieratik irauli beharra dago, éta helburuak izan behar du lau urte barru gure osasun-gastua Europako batezbastekoaren pas edo gertu egotea, lehentasunak ondo ezarriz. Eta horietako bat da osasun publikoa. Public health is not only the set of instruments that must enable us to deal with crises such as that of coronavirus; public health is community health, an aspect that the last administrations have relegated to the drawer of forgotten junk. Public health is the one that ensures that we eat healthy foods, which allows us to study the health problems that most affect, the one that follows up on epidemics, which teaches us what is the best strategy as a society to deal with problems. The same public health as during this crisis has been absolutely overwhelmed by a lack of structural means. In primary care, in health centers, in 2009 we were spending just over 540 million euros, and in 2018 we did not reach 530 million. And these are not percentages; they are absolute numbers. Numbers that allow us to better explain why it has been overflowing for years, and now, on the verge of collapse, primary care. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the workforce by recruiting at least 300 professionals right now. These figures, which are summarized in that 5.3% of GDP, with a continuous decline in the last eight years, I think they have to make us reflect. Hauek will say Osakidetzaren egora explikatzen duten zenbakiak. Eta, horiek jakinda, horeto ulertzen da koronabirusak gurean izan duen eragina. With increasing health expense, as I have mentioned, it is necessary, as I have said, to reduce to 40%, by calling on the water a broad and transparent OPE; to reorganize the general expense between hospitals and primary attention, to increase the first level, to prevent mental health from taking care from the beginning, to prevent any privatization; to form an integrated edition of the Oncological and Tols hospital. It will also be necessary to improve the structure of the females among so many other measures. To take structure measures, in a word, and not, as the authorities have hitherto done, to place bars here and there. At the same time, we must accept the charity of public health, assign all the jurisdictions of this area to the local institutions, begin from the councils and to the Basque mad: even in the case of health, because we must be independent. So much can be said about the custody. I repeat it over and over, as I have repeated in the last few weeks, and I repeat it again to-day: I'm not ready, our team isn't ready to admit that it's natural to see hundreds of people dying at old people's houses. We're not ready for that. But after six months, it hasn't taken a deep measure to go back to the situation. It is necessary that the administration should intervent all these mansions, and offer the best conditions of life to those who live in it. Which means that at least two hours a day each has to have an immediate attention. And that means that it's enough to work at the hotels. And that means they must be wages, worthy conditions. Not only those who live on the roads have been exposed, but also thousands of other people's gildings. And we believe that the time has come in custody, and in general in social services, to order. We do not speak of charity, we do not act as every one can, we speak of rights. A well-bred people, a just people, are speaking of service to a worthy people. We shall all have to be guarded at some moment of our lives; we all know some circumstance that may make us desperate; we may all know from the beginning that a person should be around us who must be watched from birth. And it must be shown at this moment, and at that moment it must show that this people has answers, and that they have powers to give them such answers. Zerbitzu publiko eta eskubide gisa, beraz, zaintza berantolatu beharrean gaude; éta, horretarako, beharrezkoa da euskal zerbitzu sozialenen erakunde publikoa sortzea; Gizartekintza deitu diugu guk, beber a gain eta berber barne hartuko dituena, udal éta diputazioekin behar den koordinzio guztiaz, eskubideen aitorpena ea zerbitzuen kudeaketa integrala. The current chaos of social services, with disoriented citizenship without knowing which window to turn to for each thing, with remarkable differences according to the territory in which we live, must end. And we must elevate social services to an essential public service, typical of a modern and advanced country. With care, too, it must be acknowledged as a right in every person's material autonomy and complete integration. I shall examine at once the view around the economy and the working world; but, unfortunately, the fact that it is now work is not guaranteed that a person can carry his work forward. Among us at least, at least 10,000 people are poorer than there is a job, owing to the structural prevention that is in the trade. The protection of Pertson, therefore, cannot turn round the employment, or at least about it. Besides, according to the last report of the government, 334,000 people are at the state of the harban, Bazai, and Gipuzian, more than 5 years old. On the whole, the data around poverty and their developments are extremely disturbing, and these facts have been constantly increasing in the course of the last years. All these people, and new people who have received a violent blow from the pandem, I want to say the news that came into that group, they need protection, and that's why we have to change the law of the remuneration of the revenue. But we must change in the right direction: Preventing the restrictions by abolishing the restrictions made during the past few years, spreading rights to protect more people. To protect more people! And I'd like to look at childhood, because in this terrible state, children are often the ones who get the greatest impact. And therefore, in order to face this condition, we think it necessary for the underworld of the 23rds to establish a universal income of 120 euros, as the institutions of many children say. In short, having solid, well-equipped public services that work every day for citizenship, that innovate, must be one of the signs of identity of this people; with workers who feel proud of the public service in which they work, with workers who feel well paid in the public service in which they work. Because public education, Osakidetza or public television are not and cannot be the heritage of any Government; they are the heritage of society as a whole. These public services, which we are necessarily obliged to maintain, if we are to stand up to this people. And in order to keep it, we'll have to get enough financial sources. That means we need a healthy economy that will take care of jobs in particular, and, as I am now going to copy, it seems to me that the time has come to leap into a new economic model. Economy and employment support are at this moment some of our principal cares. The data is raw. We'll have to see evolution, but the raw product of Euscala Autonomia Erproduce has fallen more than 20%, considering the early Eustatian data. Social security records say from the beginning of March, from the beginning of the crisis, until the last day of August, that there are nearly 380,000 affiliations. And the tax collectors from the Araba, Bizkai, and Gipuz, said that the tax division is about 20%. So raw and serious data. It is urgent to take the measurements of the impact, on the one hand, and begin to work on a future that will have stronger foundations, on the other, a real economic transition, more green, more supportable, based on science and technology, on digitalization. XXI. XXI. In this respect also, XXI. it is time to leap over. In the Context of Pandemia, health and economy have been attempted to confront us, but dichotomy is false. The more efficient countries have been in combating coronavirus, the less damaged has been their economy, and within this efficiency, without a doubt, is the maintenance, for the necessary time, of restrictive measures, avoiding the wrong temptation to lift the collective protection measures prematurely and on behalf of the economy. An attempt that, in some cases, some countries have fallen, and that leads us to a deterioration in health and also in the economy, and to the facts I refer: the best example we see in the United Kingdom or Spain, but unfortunately also here, in Euskal Herria, where we go badly, from both the health and economic point of view. We were already on the line in Europe in terms of unemployment in general; let us not say in terms of youth unemployment, in which we doubled the European average, and in terms of the wage gap between men and women, which is close to 25%. Quantitative data not good, and not quantum. The high, uncertain rate of provisionalness, the devaration of the sodal, the partiality that are not voluntary, the preventity, the structure of ours. And in this context, and in front of the gravity of the situation we live in, it is necessary to overcome the privileges which have hitherto hitherto existed in public employment, and to recover the leadership and the initiative by significant public policies. It requires a national strategy to protect our people, employment, and workers, to place this people in a more supportable direction, to promote their social employment, and to promote the economic compact that reduces the environmental impact. In short, it requires a popular state for social employment, all political parties, unions, corporations, merchants, autonomists, co-operatives, and, in general, a vast agreement between the agents of the social economy, placed in a frame of euscal. In this sense it is not acceptable to maintain the model of the present table of dialogue, because it is not democratic, because it does not depend on the respect of the representative order of the parties of decisions. And it's unacceptable that the president and the government have broken up contact with the principal unions of this country, and that they insist on that position. It is therefore necessary that we should make changes, and set up a new model of dialogue, founded on a democratic representation. The principal aim of this public science must necessarily be to promote a social employment of quality, i.e. to exercise, which rests on just and proper conditions of work without neglect or distinction, to ensure the security between itself and the family, which offers opportunity for personal development, to encourage and ensure the participation of the workers, to render the separation of wealth just and effective, which reduces the environmental impulse, and to promotes the new producinations and reactions. In short, we have to enable workers to recover control of their lives, to limit social differences, to give a firm answer to the pre-eminence of structure, and to provide opportunities for a tolerable future. In this way, by public policies, it is also indispensable to steps in favor of another economy in Euskal Autonomy in Erria. A collective economy based on co-workers, and an instrumental character, in which the end will be to improve the conditions of public life, and to satisfy the needs of the community in a tolerable manner. Together with this national agreement for quality employment, Euskal Herria Bildu undertakes to promote a minimum wage of 1,200 euros, a 35-hour working week, the adoption of a law to regulate social clauses in public contracts, so that companies that want to hire with the Administration guarantee decent working conditions to their workers, as Europe asks. A framework of sovereign relations adapted to the reality and challenges of our productive fabric. A new law also to redefine Lanbide, which must really be the Basque Employment System with the participation of all agents. A new law of social economy. A clear strategy for developing skills for the digital economy. Massive youth recruitment support programmes in emerging and strategic sectors. Shock plans for people who have been unemployed for years, as well as for the regions of our country that have higher unemployment rates. Strengthening occupational health and safety inspection plans, because dying at work cannot be an option, because we have to end the work-death binomial. He's been a tractor of Einscal economic industry for years, but he's turned back from the crisis of 2008, which has happened in many parts of Europe, and has happened to us here that we haven't recovered that retrospectation. At the same time, the industrial sector has lost nearly 60,000 workers since the last crisis. And already the crisis created by COVID-19 is knocking on many companies: Tubacex, Aernnova, ITP, Games, Seter, Alestes, and other companies have announced mass releases. We want to show support to all the workers who work with their problems, and I personally take the commitment to defend their jobs. The legislation which we are about to begin now must be a first stage, which must serve to prevent the crisis, which will stop its influence, and put its foundations in a second stage to help the euscal industry, and to scale the proportions of new structures. Now more than ever, public leadership is needed, a leadership that is expressed through the articulation of consensus, the design of strategic objectives and the provision of sufficient funds for the reactivation, first, and structural renewal, then, of our productive fabric. In this regard, I propose the immediate adoption of a series of financial support measures for industry, the Basque industry, structured in three areas: Firstly, liquidity, extending it up to 1,525 million, extending it up to 1,525 million the allocation allowed to endorse companies. We cannot allow a single viable company to close for lack of liquidity. Secondly, protection and rescue. We propose the creation of a comprehensive protocol for the care of businesses in crisis, including the possibility of rescue through a public entry into capital, creating a fund with an initial allocation of 200 million. And, thirdly, a strategic investment: we propose the activation of a fund of 325 million to carry out entry operations in the capital of strategic enterprises, and an amount to which, throughout the legislature, at least 650 million more would be added to total 975 million investment. Targets are to be 28% of the internal producer's industry, to recover the 2500,000 jobs that were in 2007, to invest 3% of the raw internal products and development of research and development, and in general the public sector, not only an integral political and a new leader, but also a motor. This new policy must be social and self-opposited, ecological, technological, rooted in the country, effective, and important in proportion to the origin and production of the country. Today, we're going to have to balance our dependence on various sectors of life, and to destitution production, science and technology, new energy, green industry, and opening doors. In Auto-Auto, in aeronautics, and other important sectors, crisis has hit hard. I believe that the support of the strategic sectors in our economy and the remoking strategy to guarantee the future is urgent. We have also shown, that a people cannot wholly deliver into the hands of foreign industry those goods, such as medical equipment or medicines, and that even to this end they ought to be directed. There is a need for decisive action, and I will insist once again: it is essential to invest in research. We are not only far from Europe, but also, during the last two legislatures, the percentage of GDP that we devote to research and development has been falling, while resources were allocated to propaganda. In investment in research and development, we are below China and closer to Spain than to Germany. And in this situation we believe that we have to take steps to reverse what we have in our hands; because, once again, it is clear that those best prepared to cope with the crisis are the ones who invest most in research. In four years we must move towards the club of advanced countries, drawing up a shared road map to invest 3% of GDP in research and development. Hostship, trade, tourism, thousands of small, autonomous companies... this pandemia has peculiarly injured them. In small business, they don't get much headlines, but in this crisis they've shown the financial importance and the social importance they have. And the liberal policies which had been made for the long years before, for the profit of the franchises, which have been protected by great commercial sites, have been left to die while the little shops were let to die. We can't, like the village, be the scursor of the great companies of the world and abandon ours. To all the workers and professionals of these Sectors I must tell you that a government I guided would never forget them, and would never let them go. For me and my side, trade, host, autonomous... because they are one of the axes of our life, of social and economic life. In the present case, however, the process, development, progress, means that we must consider another necessary condition; if we hold the same economic model as before, the string of apparent prosperity will stifle us. This example, in order to preserve itself, requires the destruction of nature, and produces more and more incubations of environments. And it increases the serious social costs associated with it. The hundreds of professionals from the Basque Country Academy, as they say in the post-COVID manifsky for the ecological economy: "We cannot forget that this crisis in which we are living unites environmental and other global crisis, such as the speedy loss of biodybert, or the change of climate... "I don't know. And that these last ones remain unsolved in the middle of political ambition. And it would be a strategic error that would cost no calculation not to reach these challenges. To face this civilizing challenge, we must give a quantum leap in environmental, land planning, transports, infrastructure, food and energy police, and we have to do this. We have to work from this day until the entire decade is stabilized by columns. A climate challenge cannot resist without changing the energy and motion model, without giving fast progress in the retal expansion. Although the commitment to great, average, and small companies is necessary, the internality of all the administration and of the community is absolutely necessary. And in that transformation the leader of fun is indispensable, by fulfilling what has been agreed on by the law of my maximum suffering, and by accepting the law which combines myrgetic transitions and climatical emergency, by combining our model and continuity of production once for all. In this sense, it will be indispensable that the exit of the social crisis, which is increased by sanitary crisis, with the challenge of climate, with the challenge of constancy. That is to say, the departure of the crisis must necessarily be an ecological exit, by pushing the green employments associated with stability, especially the expansion of the recurrent energy, the retrogrades of the housing, connected with the change of the pattern of motion and of motion. It's my commitment, both my own and my own funds that can come from Europe, to make deals with these ends. It is possible that the administration directly produces 10,000 green jobs, and private enterprises can produce 20,000 more. For what we cannot accept is our CO. 2 the inclination to continue above the level of the world and of Europe. This is a law which begins to bring climate-promises from paper to reality. We can't survive here, nor do we, or the next generations we've been looking at. Nor can we accept that our production of renewables should follow the lines of Europe, that we should not move forward on food sovereignty, that we should continue to squander millions of euros on pharaonic projects of no social benefit or that we should continue to lose control over landfills, as we have seen in Zaldibar. Joaquín Beltran's body must be worked without rest, and political responsibilities must be cleared and cleaned. A complete example of garbage management has been questioned at the Horses, and the Administration has been the only paper that will allow quick private profits. That's why I'm engaged to run a public process. We have only one planet, we have only one Basque Country. Our concern is to guard the earth, and to employ the means we have of right and art, and we must make the fundamental principle which is already admitted throughout Europe; He who defiles must pay for it. That's why he'll have to start making strong strides to a progressive green prosecutor, too. In fact, from the ecological point of view, in general, from the social and economic point of view, we have to have, as a country, an advance policy. In economics, in manufactures, in the struggle against climateal changes, we have the power and the passion of advancement, but besides the production of wealth, we must distribute it well. Thus we may support the wants of the Basque people, and thus we shall have the ability to have strong public services and to maintain them. Economics ought to be the welfare of the whole of society, and not the fulfillment of certain pockets. And together with a more just and more advanced prosecutor, we need a bold and independent financial policy. In this crisis, revenues must be increased, and thus our engagement is immediately to create a special rate of COVID, which would only affect those who make the most money. With regard to the peculiarities of our country in taxation, it will, however, be necessary to make a bold and integrated reformation in this matter. In fact, to face the situation today, we propose four sources of financing: In the first place, it is absolutely necessary to re-examine all the institutions, and, more especially, all the budgets and budgets of fun and expense, and to "retain" them, to keep them in a state of preference. Recollection, pharmaceutical, high wages must be abolished for the sake of the means. In the second place, debt, we must demand, according to our necessity and the potentiality of our economy, without setting bounds from without. We have to ask for what we can and not leave our people behind. And thirdly, the peculiar funds which are to come from Europe, or from Europe, are to be acquired as far as we know. We will not ask more than we know, but we will not ask less than we know. These resources are so important that we extend the proposal to the political forces of the other Basques and the economic agents of all the sectors of the country. In two directions: On the one hand, in the division made by Madrid, according to our economic and demographic gravity, we have given them a quantity, without excuse, and, on the other hand, to promote and direct the use of that substance in a settled manner to the original and investments. We have to guarantee the most vulnerable social and economic sectors and, from the regional point of view, to arrange a regeneration instead of increasing small and middle economic companies that are economic engines by default and the resources of the city. In the same way, the promotion of the weaker regions, social economy, and local development must be prior. Finally, we must mention that short-term needs must be arranged with the challenge and the strategic transformations; and we place the order, the digitalization, the study, health, the advanced industry, the ecological transition, equality, education, and the horizon. We also place the integrated reorganization of tax policy on the table, in order to increase the contributions of those who have most resources. I mentioned the COVID rate, but the rate COVID, as I have said, would be answerable to the present state; but next, we believe that the reorganization of the tax policy which would have other measures is necessary. Upraised by the social tax, raised by the superior men of physical society, the tax of great wealth, the tax of great commerce, and the formula of the taxing of electronic commerce. For I have already mentioned the Green Attorneyhood; I believe we have here, as a people, a deep discussion which ought to be discussed in co-ordination with the whole community. And it is necessary that, instead of asking permission from Madrid, we should go to the depths of the vicissitude of the Economic concert, and continue to take steps in our financial relationship with Spain, we should become more and more independent. The Basque People can't refuse to be a public prosecutor or to be a financial policy. The challenges we face are undoubtedly complicated, and they will certainly also require great efforts, and let us all put as much as we can on our side. Solidarity will be the great value that accompanies us in this endeavour, or we will fail, and in this sense I want to focus on a crucial aspect for our future: intergenerational solidarity. Because in the next ten years, both in the public and private sectors, half of the workers in our country will end their working lives, almost half a million people will retire by 2030, and they will have to be replaced, but at the same time, there are fewer and fewer births in our country. A colossal challenge, a dual, economic and demographic challenge, which we must start planning now, with the creation of a specific office in Lehendakaritza that leads a national public strategy to ensure that intergenerational solidarity. This challenge will also be correct in public administration. In Europe, especially 20% of the workers work at the Administration, 12% here. The public administration has the ability to create employment, and it has to be used in that capacity. Because we're not going to have any powerful public services. Nor will we, if the editor does not plan well in the administration, unless he is conducting the present temporal level of time, or if at last he does not place a limit to the planet of eascalculation. This demographic challenge before us will, moreover, have a direct impact on the friends given to families, because they must rethink and strengthen themselves, and even on the constituency of the establishments which are to be placed in the centre of public politics, or even in those which still remain intact. In this sense, I would make a special remark to the giving of almost the younger men in the extreme degree of Europe, because it is necessary to give them a real impulse; and by this means I am engaged to decide and take firm measures, by surmounting the programmes which have hitherto failed. And in this sense, and that these young men may be able to make ends of life, and to force the law to limit the rents. For it will necessarily be in the conditions of the life of the pensioners. We can't go on making excuses for the thousands of men, but above all we can't carry on collecting pensions that are a thousand women in misery. The engagement of the Basque People is to create a public euscal pension system, and to many of you we offered a first sketch, the United Testament. These will be the main axis of the political art of the year following, and we must get hold of them. Content and shapes. What to do and how to do, both of us together. And in this frame it takes the need of a new method of making real force politics, of supporting it by a pivot, which is necessary for a new administration, in conversation, in cooperation, in co-operation, and in ability to obtain agreement. We don't need a government that speaks to itself alone, we don't need a government that's angry with people and social operators. Our necessary government, the policy we need, the need of citizens and citizens must be in the centre. We must understand that we are in the service of the people, not above the people. And that the voice of the people ought to be received in governments, that this Parliament ought to receive it, and that it ought rather to be received in a people where there is a rich association like ours. That means a change of attitude, basically from all of us, but we can also begin to focus on concrete paths. For example, accepting a law of information, transparency, and intervention. The people ought to know that they themselves rule, and that the governments obey them. Keeping all doors shut is no wonder, as we have seen in the last elections, that more and more were passing and the greater desolations. Even the modern, professional, and Basque administration is indispensable to begin with something else, without any shadow, in the eyes of the people, and always working in the light. It is therefore necessary to reduce the appointments made "a dedo," and to form a public office against corruption, as we believe. The euccanic administration, because it is a right to be careful of its support, and unfortunately because the Administration every day breaks the rights of the language of the people. The situation of the Basque is not, in general, easy. Euscal culture has remarked that we are not advancing, and that, besides language, we are also seeing a retrograde in the transmission of euscal culture. I have spoken a little of the schools, and of the privations produced by the COVID; but, on the one hand, we can't blame the school and, on the other hand, the school has shown that it hasn't been perfect for the last years either to get hold of the euscal students at the age of 16 or to get them. The administration, on the other hand, never ends with the Basque Plan, and private companies do not properly promote it. We lack ambition, ambition, and determination. Determination, and perhaps not to be intimidated by those who wish to put it in the corner. We've been thinking deeply for years. It's been years since we've been pushing all the initiations that have really been applauded. And now we're coming to the Eusex or the Run, for a couple of them, but there's a lot more to be done in the villages, much more, but there's more to be done. The change and execution of the law must be necessary, and the use of language must be a pattern. As hundreds of journalists have requested, so the government itself may be Basque. Well, I promise. What the Basque needs is breathing and bellows, we have to breathe, but the bellows are also the administration's responsibility. And I think that in this sense we must make a more firm step. Cultural and language are important. And I'd like to talk about culture now because culture is necessary and basic. In the hardest moments of the close we have lived, we have had culture to breathe: art, music, literature, poetry, theater, dancing or cinema. He reminded us of the real value and the contribution of culture and made us live. Unfortunately, the exception, the sector has very little conditions, and it's highly vulnerable in crisis. This will leave so many cultured projects and projects, which are in the first row. This crisis may lead to the system of culture which may last for years. And we have to face this, and to prevent it from confessing the strategic nature of culture, and to represent the system of culture, we must design and set up a plan of imperturbation for the cultural culture of the whole. Experience and religious worship helps us to make a place in the world, nourish the inner world, help us in the construction of the senses, help us to understand the world of ourselves, encourage the world to exchange, create space for play, invite us to study, and make us feel ourselves a member of a community. Let us therefore attribute to culture the value it deserves. We need culturers and creators, and we need to look after them too. We have great challenges, I'm saying over and over again, because I believe it, and the answer must be of the root. But let's not cheat ourselves. We are all aware that the answer to what we have to give will be cut short, if we have not all the instruments in our power, and we have none. We have to play a world league, but we have to get out of the field with an arm and a leg tied up. And we must make all our efforts to be independent. We, the Basque People, I, work for an independent Basque Republic and work and work. But most of all we shall do for the people to have words and resolutions, and to have their words and judgments respected. We believe it's a democratic principle. I spoke at the beginning of my intervention of the need for a new governance, a new political culture, new ways of doing politics, because the crisis of the coronavirus has revealed certain aspects that Euskal Herria Bildu has already emphasized since its constitution: the importance of having solid public services, the need to combat the unfortunate working conditions of thousands of workers, who have shown that they are the really essential ones to maintain the pulse of this country, the imperative obligation to develop feminist policies, the need to cooperate... It has become clear throughout the world that all these issues are already at the centre of the political debate, but here in Euskal Herria, moreover, the virus has revealed our level of self-government. We have a self-government of taking and putting, and this issue must also be at the centre of the political debate, because it is false that there is a social and national debate; the debate is unique: we talk about rights, we talk about citizens' rights. We cannot address the national debate without considering how we want to build this country, but neither can we talk about social rights by obviating that we have no capacity to decide, that we must always ask for permission. The Basque Country must be master of itself, and it is in its own hands that all tools, politicians, economics, cultures, scientifics, all tools. Although the state of Guernica ought long ago to be full, yet it is no longer sufficient to attain to the situation we have, and to the dangers we have, with great constancy and assurance. Even if it's filled up, it won't work. What's done here is as long as Spain wants to do, and as she likes to manage the rights of the Eukongs. And here, even now, it's true, as long as Spain wants it, and as he likes it, he manages Eusk0YKE's rights. And we've seen that clearly, and we can't go on like this for one more moment. Part of the road has been made, and the Basque People, from what opposition from the Government, promise that they will make two attempts to follow that road. But without fraud, without deceiving anyone. Our wager, as I said four years ago, is the independence and independence of the Basque People, and we're getting more and more the ones we're betting on. There is nothing but to see the results of the elections at Aran, in Biscaia, and in Gipuzia, but also in Navarrian, and also in the North. That's why I'm grateful to the Basque Country today for the Mayor of Bai. In the meantime, I shall remember that 77% of the representatives of this Parliament have at least made a match for the right to decide, at least in words, and I shall repeat in words. It should be the three-quarters of the voters. That's what he got. It is scarcely possible to obtain so vast a protection from any other political proposition. And in this Law, the Parliament, and the Government must give an answer, without more delay, and without disturbance. We need a similar relationship with the Spanish State, which will have all its guarantees, a confessional relationship, so that the Spanish Government may not tear our faculties with one side. A political concert, in order to answer the wants of the citizens, must be based on their words and their decisions. This people has a right to decide its future democraticly, and it has a right to be respected. In the preceding two laws, the author of the State has worked in the State. We also have a deal. And no more agreement was obtained, but the agreement is very extensive. Now is the time for the legal proposition to begin. At this moment, in this new parliament, 70% would be a match for the one agreement we've made. I repeat: if there is no substance, there will be no greater consent, because there is no such thing. To this end we must proceed by means which have not been dealt with in the former law, and have a suggestion about the middle part of this law, and this proposition must be secured by the people. We have to make an inquiry that the people may speak, and let them give their opinion about what we have done here. From what opposition from the government, as I have said, you will be ready for this road. But I repeat: but not to spend any time in idle leisure. We'll show him we do what we say and tell him what we do. And in this sense the last four years have been clear to know and see what we can get from Spain: Not much. The state of Guernica, after 41 years of age, is not yet completed, as I have already remembered; the central tendency is clear, as shown by the management of the pandemocra. And after all, the unity of Spain, whatever else it may be, is placed over democracy. And Catalonia has been so smart in the last four years with 155. But not just for 155. The King of Spain, with the protection of PSOE and PP, the judicial power and the justice of Spain, armed and police, the majority of the media, the great companies-if all have shown anything, it has been clear that the real essence of Spain is the unity of the State, and nothing else. No justice, no freedom, no democracy. The basis of the monarchical redemption in 1975 is the union of Spain, as has been stated by Juan Carlos the Bourbon before his death. As it is written in the Constitution of Spain: "La Insoluble indi de la nación." And now, after 40 years of whitening the monarchy of Spain, when the lie has come all over them, and when they have seen who Juan Carlos himself was, it is pathetic to continue to justify the monarchy. In a word, then, when you see all this, it is nothing to expect from Spain. And whoever says the contrary will have to prove it, because it is a policy that things should be done and the means to come to pass, and that the means should be produced. There is a people here, of the oldest people in Europe, and, like the rest of the world, has a right to determine their future, because we are no more than anyone, but we are not less than anyone. It's up to us to find solutions, starting from realism, no doubt, but finding real paths, real ones. Not out of reality. And to wait for Spain is to hope that something will come from there, is to be out of reality. He's not realistic, and condemns us to paradise. And like a standing stone, the people who are standing, the moss comes out, and we are alive. I think, I really think, we can't let it go. In the end, at the moment when all political projects are actually possible, we will have a real life when no one has any political position. And as I'm talking about life, I want to continue this. Four years ago, I made a call in my speech to disarm and to favor the demilitation of the Basque Country. The first is made, the second is not. And there's still a machine in the solution. It's 10 years since the Aete deal next year. And the same may be said of this agreement, which is only the first of its points. I want to talk to you about victims, respect of all the victims. We want them to respect the rights of all the victims, so that the solution may be integrated, that they may feel that the solution is integrated, that they may all receive all truth, justice, and rebellion. I've been able to stay with all kinds of victims for the last four years, he's been private and he's been public. And recently, and because they were the last, I had an opportunity of meeting with the victims of state terrorism around the GAL's papers. Despair, and even in the election campaign I told you, was used by a word: they felt forsakenness, forsakenness. But the desire to move forward. That's what they sent me, and I take the determination to do it with all the victims. And I want to talk about the prisoners. The promotion of COVID-19 still affects the collective of prisoners and their relations. The promotion of health crisis requires measures, but not in the sense indicated, on the rights of prisoners and relations. It's in COVID-19's context that prison exception, dismembering, and this situation requires immediate solution. The prisoners must immediately be brought to Eascal Cartzel, as is their right. The prisoners who suffer from illness, from over 65 years of condemnation, ought to be granted the means of obtaining freedom. They're asking for more and more firm voices to bring the prisoners to the Basque Country, and still more about COVID-19. And I drew the situation about COVID-19, but at the same time I make a proclamation. We shall continue to produce social, political conditions, and institutions, in order to accomplish these conditions as soon as possible; for we proclaim each other's life over and over again. A life together, a life for all of us. And to build a life together, because the case of the prisoners has to be solved too. Let's build a future that will be better than the past. Of all the women and men in the Basque Country. In short, what I propose to you is a clear commitment to modernity, to the future, to embrace the twenty-first century with all the necessary instruments; a new way of doing politics that leaves behind the imposition, the order and command, looking over the shoulder, the suspicions of corruption, the friendship; a commitment by a society of women and men with the same opportunities, euskaldun and multilingual, that ensures decent living conditions for all and all, especially those who need it most, that allows them to develop their life projects, to face the future with illusion and hope; a society that aspires to happiness, a society in freedom. This town has shown throughout history that it is capable of doing great things. It has been and continues to be powerful those who try to push us towards resignation and by shrinking from their shoulders, those who repeat to us over and over again "this is what there is." I tell you one thing: it's not true. And I give you my word that we're not going to resign. If this is what there is, the answer is clear: let's change it, let's work to change it. That's why today, like four years ago, and as I've done before, I'm going to proclaim a feminist government, a homelogist, a left government, to make advanced social policies, an euccanic government and transition to an independent Basque People. But, as I have said before, above all the men and women of the Basque Country, who will have the word and the decision to decide their future. I'd like to finish it with a little puff today, just a little homage to Joan Madre. Lore Aguirre researchers and teachers, knowledge. He has constantly proclaimed the force, capacity, and commitment which this people has shown to remain a people, and the necessity of all of them, because they were "are we." And another phrase that has been a column in his life: It's hard to do. 'It can't be done unless it does,' he said. That is what I meant to-day: for we are, and because we are, we have an obligation to do inaction, because we have all the care. That's why I'm asking this congressman to be the president. Thank you, and good morning to all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u4	Thank you... Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Next, the President of the Urkullu Renteria has the word to explain the main lines of his government program for nearly 90 minutes. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u5	Congressmen, members of the legislature, officers and representatives of society, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today, we have a meeting for the President of the Eukong. We live unusual times. March, we are under the consequences of COVID-19. We've been through a lot of months. Euskadin, more than 1,700 people died. They will be responsibility and solidarity to the future of our society and democracy. The public eucalyptic services must have faced situations that have never happened. Professionals have offered their best, and they have done as the thousands of thousands of people who have been giving their essential services. We're also experiencing extraordinary times in the political and institutional realm. On the 12th of July, we were able to make the elections in security, and today, the 3rd of September, is the turn of the inquest. It is not a moment to mingle with sterile polemics, for it would prevent us from resisting the pandemia in the presence of a really urgent and important work. But I want to say that it was a good decision to make elections. Now, more than ever, it's essential to consider all public institutions. That all their legislative and execution functions should be active in favor of these principal functions: Keep up dealing with COVID-19, pay attention to the weakest individuals and collectives, start economic relief, and start the future course of this country. This sanitary, economic, and social crisis affects everyone. We'll have to think and act in the same way, because contexts and consequences will be very hard, both in social and economic. This challenge demands extensive agreements, great political and social agreements. This is what I hope for from each of us and from all our people. I hope so, and that's the way I'll be working on it from the first day. At this point, I want to remember what happened to the Horses. It's obvious that the work of professional groups has been done since the dump more than six months ago. They have been hard and long days, and have continued to work with a preference: finding the missing two missing people, Alberto Solozin and Joaquín Beltrán. The whole Basque society has lived in peace with the tragedy and misery of the relatives. Work begins to give results, and I wish to present our solidarity and commitment to our families to-day. They have suffered a great deal for a long time; by what silence they have expressed, we have felt, shared, and understood it. I promised them, and I promised in front of the whole society that we would not surrender until we found the two missing ones. To-day, by these words, I would express my closeness. And with that I promise that the cause of this tragedy and the trial that will identify mistakes will continue and that the responsibilities will be requested. Today I am comparing myself with the objective of obtaining the support of this House in order to be again the Lehendakari of Euskadi; I am presenting a programme to respond to the challenges of our country. Euskadi has consolidated a model of sustainable human development; human development is a basic pillar of social well-being and coexistence. Sustainable growth is the axis of economic development. We have a model that works; I say it without triumphalism or sterile self-congratulation, because we have much to improve. We will continue to work with the whole of Basque society, a society that stands out because it is concerned and particularly concerned about solidarity and social cohesion, even more so at a time of crisis as acute and profound as the current one. The institutions are once again faced with the challenge of protecting people, all people, through public services and social policies. All institutions must make a special effort to strengthen the channels of coordination and collaboration. This will be my first message to the new Government: maximum institutional coordination. The severe crisis that is announced will have its most dramatic exponent in the social sphere, showing the vital difficulties of people and families in vulnerable situations. That is why the scope and extent of our social protection system, which is key to curbing inequality, and to making our society more and better cohesive, must be placed at the heart of the debate. Without a minimum shared basis, without the common effort of public and private actors, it will not be possible to undertake the enormous task ahead. We will continue to innovate in areas such as new models of care and health for the elderly, in mechanisms to ensure that all citizens have access to the resources necessary for a dignified life. This legislature, we're going to pass the new Income Guarantee Income Income Law. Combating social inequality requires prioritizing the struggle against precariousness, uncertainty, exclusion, and, in its most extreme version, poverty. In its health dimension, the virus affects all citizens; but in its social dimension, the effect is as unequal as society itself. Today, Euskadi needs to urgently address reforms, initiatives and projects that will help to overcome the economic crisis, generate employment and return to the path that will guarantee us the future. We will face this new stage of realism and the principles of responsibility. We are very conscious of the emotional dimensions of the moment we live in. We know the direct effects that are produced on people, families, and community life. In my speech, I will explain the challenges of Eusquedi, and I shall speak of the necessity of making a collective project which will ensure the future. The political dimensions of this project are enriched by the central instrument we have got; our auto-gagobernu, a legal-polyptic road which enabled the Basque organization. Thanks to the trust and management of our organizations, we have acquired great social prosperity, prosperity, and justice. Now we have to update and search the way to face the great challenges of the future. We've won a firm arrangement to make these challenges a chance. I'm happy in the personal and political side, because I'm on the side of my party, the Jelza of the Euca Party, and I'm on my way to this law under the protection of the Social Party of the Basque Party. That protection was the result of the agreement and cooperation. I appreciate the confidence they give me. I am responsible for this legislation's creation in order to start the schedule of initiatives created from the government firm. I defend this agreement because it is the basis of the development of our country. It is partly due to a share of the positive experience of the previous legislation and other institutions. It's a deal that guarantees stability and ability in the Eukong. It's a starting-point. Today I present the main lines, with my hands open, to build a Basque among us all. Legebiltzarreko alderdi politicikoei, euskal erakundeei eta Statuko Gobernuari zabaltzen diet eskua, huta lankidetza publikoari eta pribatuari ére, eragile sozial, ekonomiko, labor age professional, age hezkuntza- eta kultura- eragileei ére zuzentzen natzaie. Hand extended to collaboration. The best possible project for Euskadi is to combine our diversity and plurality. If this House so ratified, in a few days we will begin to outline and discuss the policies of the future of Euskadi, aware that it is time to dialogue, negotiate and agree. We live in times that require the utmost responsibility of the lehendakari and his team, this House and its political representatives, and of society as a whole. Times that require diagnostics adapted to the new realities and a renewed impulse, which translates into programs, budgets, equipment and people. They have my commitment. I hope to have that of you and of Basque society as a whole. Part one: the context of COVID-19. Today our first and sincere memory is with all the people who have died throughout the coronavirus pandemic, with relatives and relatives who have suffered and suffered the loss of their loved ones, who in many cases have not been able to fire as they would have wished. Only those who have suffered it know how heartbreaking a duel is in such extreme circumstances. We do not forget the people who are still suffering from the serious consequences of the infection with COVID-19. Those of us in this House have had personal experiences and experiences, more or less close, of this tragedy; we have felt them as our own. On 21 September we will share here, in Vitoria-Gasteiz, an act of remembrance and institutional tribute to the more than 1,700 people who have died. I share the recognition to those who are helping, from the first day and in the first line, to respond to the crisis of COVID. Essential, professional and well-organized services represent our self-government, and are a guarantee of the well-being of Basque society. I express my gratitude to the whole of society, which has been able to assume and cope with the difficulties of confinement. A conscious and supportive society, which has faced the difficulties and continues to contribute stubbornly to containing the virus. Individual and collective commitment will remain key to overcoming this situation. Civicism, social responsibility, discipline... They can help us, they will, to overcome these very complex moments. This involves assuming each one, each person, our own responsibility, without seeking a scapegoat against which to release our impotence and our fears. I call this vision constructive realism. Constructive realism means recognizing that things are not right and that it will require a lot of effort to move forward. It supposes that, despite the emotional impact of living these hard moments, it imposes the will to believe in our own ability to overcome ourselves and recover the social pulse. We've been fighting the pandemia since the first day, in the three main parts: secondly, on the crisis of economy and employment, and thirdly on the social barrier and the weakest sectors. This violent crisis leaves no room for the man who gives it. Defines and limits the calendar of preference to take over us. We have a long way to go, to which we must arrive in a shared, co-ordinate, co-ordinate, and effective manner. In this circle of society, in which we have lived, people, families, friends, and our nearest surroundings are more important. It's still early to evaluate and study the situation, but we can clearly see that confidence is a fundamental value for society. Trust is more necessary than ever, so that the social population may not be exhausted, and that the three parts of the crisis may attain to ichans, economics, and social excess. The key is easy to explain, but harder to perform. Essentially, the pattern of the government of co-workers is fixed upon the basis of transparency and efficient management. This legislation will probably be considered the legislation of COVID-19. I foresee that the struggles against the pandemese and the conclusions which will take place in the economy and employment will last for the last four years. The program I introduce answers that situation. We've repeated it many times: As long as we don't get vaccination and effective treatment, we'll have to live with the virus. That could take a long time. That's why we're gonna have to control contacts and prevent contagion. I want to emphasise two main criteria: we must avoid the collapse of our sanitary service, and at the same time avoid the economic coma of the country. Both are related to people's lives, compatible, and at the same time we must protect them. After all, the lives of the present and future are of the same value, absolute value. We know that we will endure the incautiousness of the coronabirus in our life, whether as individuals or as society. We must accept the sanitary uncertainty, and at the same time encourage new habits and conduct. That means we must accept the responsibilities of our social relationships. Again and again we must remind ourselves that it is necessary to obey the rules of the medical authorities: the hands washed, the mask used, and the distance between persons, the others kept, and every time proposed and established. It's everybody's responsibility: the institutions must foresee, inform, and govern, and each of us must assume an individual responsibility. The restrictions prescribed by the organization are indispensable to strengthen the struggle against the extension of COVID-19. Society generally fulfils these measures of commitment. I know some of these measures might cost a lot in sectors that are more dangerous to transmit the virus. We shall continue to examine this force carefully, to establish the measures of correction and compensation, according to the measures imposed by our self-generacy, and by the Spanish Government. In this context, I stand on a central issue for the coming months: the start and development of the 2020-2021 academic year. Education is a basic pillar for progress and social equity, a priority. The pandemic affects all sectors and social activities, including education. We have experienced this during the last quarter of last year; a great effort by the entire educational community has made it possible to meet the challenge of forced non-personality, with an online education deployment With a view to preparing this course, we have worked on three criteria: forecasting, coordination and adaptation: Forecast. At the end of June, the Basque Government defined and shared a protocol of action that envisaged three scenarios for the beginning of the course. Coordination. This document, together with that prepared by the Department's Occupational Risk Prevention Service, was sent to all educational institutions. Twenty-three working meetings were held with the educational community. On this basis, each centre, taking into account its own characteristics, has been developing its contingency plan to start the course; this is the starting point. Adaptation. The scenario remains changing; for this reason, last week we proceeded to adapt the June protocol to the reality of the end of August. On the basis of this adaptation criterion, the start of the course will be developed in a step-by-step way: on Monday, 7 September, Infantil, Primary, first, and second of ESO; one week later, on 15 September, third and fourth of ESO and Bachelorate; in Vocational Training, the start is expected from day 14, and progressively throughout September. Health and education are and must be compatible. The Basque Government's commitment, in collaboration with the educational community, is the so-called scenario one, that is, face-to-face education at all levels of education. This is the best guarantee for quality and equal education. Face-to-face education is compensatory; it helps to correct the inequality of the most vulnerable students or with academic, social, digital or family difficulties. The action protocol for this scenario one includes all measures aimed at ensuring the preventive conditions of hygiene, distance, consolidation of stable groups, integration, maximum class size at each stage and use of the mask. In consequence of this principle, I wish to show the three principal principles of learning: One. The health department's tracking and evaluation. The opportunity is the presence of education. It will therefore be the chief wager, but it will always depend on the examination of the medical authorities concerning the evolution of the epidemic. The coordination between the Board of Education and the Medical Department is narrow and constant, and will be as it is. Every school will have an integrated sanitarian reference organization. Two. The increase of human numbers and the increase of space for education. The Board of Education predicts the hiring of 1,000 teachers for the most important schools that need help. In the same way, it is organized in the manner of using more space for education, in order to ensure distances in all cases. As for this, the Board of Education, co-ordinated with the Eudel and the City of Yonkers, is working. Three. Taking spot sizes or surgery. The presence of the option is applied with flexibility. When it is necessary for health reasons, or for want of isolation of contacts and contagion, it is possible to establish punctual measures. The beginning of learning will not be easy, for the same conditions are not easy. Anyway, we'll be in constant contact with the schools, in order to continue the situation, to evaluate our activity at every moment, and take the necessary measures at every moment. It is a strategic field of education for society, and at the same time, as we well know, very sensitive to the effects of it. In addition to all the precautions which are planned, many others will be admitted in the future. In all cases, it will be essential to have an attitude to team work and cooperation. To the challenge that COVID-19 makes us, he'll have to cooperate with the unit of education. That's the only way to overcome the challenge. It is up to us to successfully meet the challenge of consolidating a quality universal educational service, and to make progress in excellence, based on its modernisation, which is key to social cohesion. I clearly defend the Basque educational system and model; it is a priority of the country, it is a priority of the Basque Government. This legislature will pass a Basque law on education. It will take into account the agreement reached in the past legislature, with particular emphasis on equity and excellence. It will aim at modernising the Basque education system, advancing multilingualism, ensuring equal opportunities, reviewing the funding of the education system and increasing the autonomy of the centres. As I said before, we are experiencing an exceptional moment. It is true that the fight against COVID occupies virtually everything. However, the Government programme cannot and should not be monographic. We will continue to drive all country goals. The pandemic has not overturned those goals, which are now even more necessary than before. Strategic objectives in the various economic, health, educational, industrial, energy, social or cultural fields. In these circumstances, and with this orientation, we are embarking on a new stage. A new scenario for a new stage. I reiterate my gratitude to the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party for the work done to reach agreement on this agreement from a shared vision of the future of Euskadi. Together we take a path, to which we must add new wills. In our path of government, collaboration has been the result of both conviction and necessity. Now, when we have a more settled majority, the spirit will be the same; conviction, greater. We present an agreement for the future of Euskadi, open to all contributions and contributions. Also constructive criticisms, as I would like them to be formulated in this investiture debate. The moment we live like this demands it. The dimension of the challenges and objectives that we pose demands to extend the culture of agreement and collaboration. The Auzolan The experience over the past few months will mark the future of the coming years. This allows us to analyze the keys of the current moment: One. The importance of public institutions and policies. At a time when certain populism was advancing and transmitting an idea of banality in the exercise of institutional responsibility, the importance of public policies and the action of institutions has become more evident than ever. Knowledge and science have gained new value, the need to guarantee society essential elements, such as health, education, support for the most vulnerable, and security. Two. The experience of extreme social and economic vulnerability. COVID has brought the most serious social and economic crisis in recent decades. It has caused the destruction of part of our economy and thousands of jobs, showing the vulnerability of many families and people. Some of the difficulties we have already experienced and overcome in previous situations, but the depth of this crisis forces us to go faster and better, in order to protect the common and advance equality. Three. Rebalance between global and local. We will continue to live in an interconnected and global world. But we have appreciated the importance of the near, the next. The importance of having their own capacities and a strong local social and economic fabric. We have checked the value of having a healthier habitat, with cities 15 minutes, medium size, with housing that guarantees family living conditions. The protection of biodiversity, with green spaces and sustainable mobility, has become more valuable. Four. Europe is our project. The climate of international tension was prior to the pandemic, but has intensified with it. There is a global geoeconomic and political struggle. Europe cannot be left out. Some believe that Europe should have gone further. In any case, it must be acknowledged that the Union has understood the importance of the moment, the need for economic and social impetus. That is why it promotes fundamental axes for our future, such as sustainability and energy transition, science and research, technology and digitisation. Five. Reactivating the economic and business fabric is a necessity because employment is once again the social priority. The economic consequences of this crisis are tremendous, not only because of the fall in activity or activity that forces the permanent adjustment of all forecasts, but also because of their impact on employment. The destruction of businesses, businesses or professional activities is very strong. We are plunged into a systemic economic crisis, with a high impact in areas such as urban trade, hospitality, culture or leisure; with great affection in key sectors for our country, such as automotive, aeronautical or equipment goods. Job creation is once again our fundamental goal. That is why we have to support our companies and make a bet on the future of industry and advanced services, as the spinal cord of our production system. Six. Science, knowledge, research, technology and innovation have become essential to our society. On the one hand, the research has started the biggest project ever done in history to find the vaccine against the COVID. On the other hand, the most advanced countries are playing the strategic bet for research and development. Euskaki must continue to take this wager as a priority, with more effort than ever. I wish to remark that we agree with the consideration which the European Union has made: digitalization must be encouraged according to the values of the integrated society. Seven. Patience and equality continue to be goals ascending. Euskaki must be patient in the direction of a change of climate and of myrgetic transition. In the struggle of equality against the force of genera, in social justice, in the struggle against race, in the answer to emigrations and refugees. In the end ten days' journey, even in the international development company, it must be in the Euskata. The will of Euskadi agrees with the 2020 strategy of Europe, and also with the aims of the sustainable development of the United Nations in 2030 Age. Eight. Young and active age. Once again, a generation of young people sees how crisis conditions its hopes of future. Our people must succeed in transforming the demographic curve. Agers have been the most injured in this crisis, because their human cost has been very great. We propose a pact between generations. To answer the wants of age, and to articulate the policies which they give young men the chances of the future. Pents, social services, family policies, and performance plans are the ingredients of this pact between generations. Nine. A new efficiency and public administration. We'll have to face the moments when the public institutions are going to have a great impact on them. We will complete our commitment and evaluate the results of the recent reform prosecutor, because we promised. Europe has realized it's time to drown. Euskadin, too, we will do it with severity and responsibility, as usual, thinking of the future of the people. With that, the efficiency of the administration and the improvement of public management will be a priority. Ten. To strengthen the auto-gourage as the basis of Euskade's future, and the need of a new system of government for co-workers. It has been shown in the past few months that it is very important that euscal organizational systems are capable of it. It has been asserted that we need a new system of government to secure the principles of co-ordination and subsidy. The crisis has helped share the organization strategy and has to continue to help. We're on our way to coordination and cooperation. We must continue the same Illust, strengthen our relations with the forum and the municipalities. This is a fundamental commitment in the new stage: we must work together, all of us together, that the state of uncertainty in which we live compels us to limit the co-ordination of the institutions. That'll be the priority of the new government. Our political project is based on the conversation and cooperation of the institutions. This is the context of the legislation that is about to be started. Program of fun and targets. Our program combines with the objectives of the sustainable development of the United Nations, and is structured in four sections: One that's urgent: Wealth. A commitment to the US, and a recovery of economics. The priority is job, getting all lost jobs back. We bet for the most advanced industry as an economic agent. Even for innovation, as a key to future competition. We'll continue to make investments to modernize substructures and to encourage bearable transports. We also introduce the first sector, the nutrient policy, the country development, and the bearable tourism. At the same time, in the state we live, it is a priority to refresh the sectors of culture, commerce, and hosts. Two, that's important. First, urgent, two, most important: People. To ensure health, public services, and social policy. We're gonna reinforce public health because it's the best guarantee to face the crisis of COVID. We dare to maintain a more just educational system and a greater quality. We're making investments on the way to the entire euscal educational digitalization system. Our priority is to guarantee the politics of society and to fix their quality, to invest in the social system, to ensure that no one remains behind, and to guarantee the harmonious development of the Basque society. We'll encourage a new housing policy, especially a rental policy. With this we shall have the most general influence on old men, families, children, and migration. We'll push culture, eucature, and sport. For there are also signs of euphoria throughout the world. We are well acquainted with the difficulties which the culturers are experiencing. On the one hand, we shall pursue helps, and on the other we will continue to encourage new culture and creative industry. We know the situation of the eucalyptus, too. On the one hand, we'll keep increasing the help of learning to the eucalyptus. On the other hand, we'll encourage the use. This is a whole Basque commitment. We will promote the use of language in Administration, education, leisure, work-world, communication, society, and language, as well as the language of communication. Euskar's normalization is one of the hinges with use as a communication tool. I'm sure it'll be a good one, together with other institutions and different groups of society, to promote the use of the eucalyptus. Autumn Eucharity gives us a new opportunity to make that commitment. We plan a deal to facilitate the young generation. We'll accept a new law. This is one of the principal ends of the law; it will have the dimensions of generations, and integrates together the preparations, the housing, and the exercise of the work. Feminism, the equality of genera, and the primary aim of struggle with machiistic violence. We are committed to the law which will encourage the equality of women and men in the Eukadin to re-establish. One, the urgent, prosperity; two, the important, people; three, the responsible, the planet, our commitment to a just energy and climate transition. We're going to push a big social deal for the weather in Basque Green Deal. We will continue to drive the new energy strategy, including the renewables bet. We will invest both in the conservation of the natural environment and biodiversity and in the drive to the circular economy. This legislature will pass the law on natural heritage, and also the law on climate change; we will be a neutral country in greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, and we will help to prevent an increase in the global average temperature. Fourth, the slope: self-government and coexistence. Our commitment is to achieve more and better self-government to advance sustainable human development. The first objective is to complete the Statute of Gernika, in accordance with the schedule of outstanding transfers submitted by the Spanish Government on 20 February. In this Parliament, we intend to reach a basic agreement for the political future of Euskadi. The Statute provided for the recognition, in the block of constitutionality, of the identity of the Basque people, a unique, differentiated identity, constituted by the ownership of historical rights. These rights thus served – and it was no other intention of the additional first of the Constitution – as a gear between the foral substrate and the constitutionalism of the modern state. Politics and law is the binomial that will allow progress in the territorial debate Legal certainty, respect for procedures and political will to allow direct consultation of citizens on matters of particular importance. Reopening the Euscalal auto-engership must lead to renew and strengthen the compact character of our political institutions. There is no covenant without a guarantee system. The process of negotiation must be carried on in a treaty conducted by effective mutual differences, with certain guarantees and conditions of loyalty one to another. Euskadi looks at an open and global future. Our project overrides the internationalization of the Basque Basque Country and the multiple nets, as well as Euskauda, Navarre, and the development of the New Aquidania, recovering the values of the new European origin. Between the field of primary activity, the modification of justice and the new model of public security is observed. We'll invest in the new diary of cooperation and human rights as well as in the cooperation of development. We will continue to penetrate the public policies of the critical memory of the past. We will also accept the law of Historical and Democratic Memory. From the inner view, we are engaged to do responsible handling. We will continue to invest in digitalization in order to provide more efficient and more open public administration. Even if we are engaged to give transparency and accounts, it will be the columns of our management. We've shown that our model is effective. The Euscal standard combines human development and patient growth, the reviving of attention and economy towards individuals. Human development. Person is the quintessence of our behavior. Our commitment is to improve management and efficiency, to offer better assistance to all the citizens, especially to those who are in a weak condition. We will develop and improve the system of providing revenues against neglect, following the reform scheme sent to the legislature in the previous legislation. With that, we will accept the new Euscal Plan for the Society of 2025. We have to dig deep into the forum and municipal co-ordination of the Euscal System of Social Services to ensure social suffering and social attention. We'll encourage social service innovation, evaluation, and quality. In the health area, we will increase our primary attention and move forward in the maintenance of existence. We'll modernize and adapt our facilities and equipment. We're going to develop a natural ecosystem to boost a network connected to health and health. We'll expand the planets and improve the training and confession of health professionals. We will accept the law of euscal on education. This law will have the following ends: the improvement of the instability of the profession, the modification of the system, the progress of eloquence, the application of choice, the attention of multiplicity, the reconnaissance of finances, and the development of the autonomy of the schools. We'll continue to progress in the Hezic professions of excellence, encouraging technological innovations and compressing connections with the company net, through your training. I shall feel three goals: to promote talent, to introduce women into industrial branches, to encourage new corporations. We'll take a new plan on the university system to strengthen the University + Company's strategy. That means that you're training and what's alternate will go to 50 headlines. In scientific politics and in excellent research, the university plan has penetrated with the strategy of RIS3 intelligent specialization. In the housing area, we develop the subjective right by rule, and we drive to 100 percent of the public housing. We'll improve judgations, avoid ghettos, and assist the poorest collective, especially the young, the older, the one-sided families, or bichtimes of the one-parentity with their children. Our program offers special attention to families and children to support integrated strategy to increase birth rates. He also encourages young people's chances and their donations, because they are young people who are our best social capital. Our commitment is to lower the young population by means of the policy of collision with the housing and the employment axis. On this axis of human development, I wish to make a special mention of our commitment to a terrible evil of our society, to the equality of women and men, and to fight against the machista of violence. The object of the entire government is to guarantee true effective equality by a new law which will help us to disappear forever the curse of violence. At the same time, we express a firm will to continue to develop the integrated policy that will eliminate the interest of the salary and reaction. It will continue to be a first-class field at the Social Dialog table. We have institutionalized this Social Dialogue Bureau; we have made progress in many areas: quality of employment, dual vocational training, control of labour fraud, the incorporation of women into training in science, technology and innovation, also in industry, or the commitment to the wage gap. I make a new call to start this stage, betting on this Social Dialogue Bureau, as a space for meeting and collaboration among all the social and economic actors in our country. The door's open. Human development as the first axis of our model. Second axis, sustainable growth. Euskadi must take a new impetus for the revival of the economy and the consequent recovery of all lost jobs. We must recover the growth path we achieved before the coronavirus pandemic. It's our common purpose. We have a positive accumulated experience. We will incorporate new legislative initiatives. We shall adopt, inter alia, the rural development law or the law of the public system or of the Basque employment system. Our sustainable growth strategy is underpinned by two pillars: job creation and economic recovery. These two objectives are aligned with the European Union's Recovery or Resilience Strategy and are framed in the funds of the Next Generation Programme, which is the responsibility of the Spanish Government. These objectives are shared, and will be worked on jointly by the Basque institutions. Outlaws, municipalities and the Basque Government share the absolute priority of economic recovery and the generation of employment opportunities. From the outset, the new Government will share investment projects aimed at generating more growth and as much employment as possible. In 2013, the first full year as a lehendakari, Euskadi was in recession, and unemployment grew month by month. Today, we're back in a complicated situation. By the time the pandemic began, we had reached a stage of consolidated economic growth. By 2019 we had achieved the nuclear target of reducing unemployment below 10%; this was our priority, and now, as a result of the pandemic, it is again. It is up to us again to carry out a reconstruction task. Our first commitment is rigorous, accountable, transparent and effective management. We are a solvent country, and we will maintain rigour in the management of public accounts. Our first task over the next 100 days is to focus on adopting the basic instruments for effective governance: the Government programme, which will include the 15 country objectives; economic-budgetary guidelines, in which we will maintain our commitment to zero cuts in essential public services; an employment strategy and economic recovery, shared with the Basque institutions and open to public-private collaboration; projects for the Next Generation funds of the European Union, with the ambition of being able to mobilise a public-private investment of EUR 10 billion; updating the pandemic health programme and the adoption of the new public health law; a digitalisation plan for education; a plan for the financial support of Basque companies, with the funds for rooting and business development managed by the Basque Institute of Finance; a programme to support small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed professionals, trade, hospitality, culture and tourism; progress on the legislative calendar, and budget 2021. The attitude of the Government, in responding to the situation and the challenges of the future, will be based on dialogue and willingness to reach agreements. This means sharing a strategy, setting realistic goals and facilitating collaboration between public institutions and with private initiative. This is the attitude we are going to take to turn challenges into opportunities. Four global challenges. Four choices of the future for Euskade. I present the foundation of the future view to answer the hinges of our people today. We know that their development far surpasses the action and the political area of a legislation; A challenge for sanitarian and social transition, technological and digital transition, ecological transition and neurological and self-revolution. When we act on this new stage, we have 17 goals to 2030 of the United Nations and sustainable developments of the United Nations. The tools for the consistency of public policies will allow us to advance on this road. Sanitarian and social transition. Our engagement is, first of all, to strengthen the wager for public health service. This constitutes the balance, cohesion, and challenge of a just society, founded on equality and transparency. This legislation is essential for us to develop euscal society harmoniously. The transitional and digital. Our proposal is to promote the agreement for science, technology, and innovation, the agreement shared with the institutions, with a clear purpose: In the year 2030, a precursor land in Basque Europe is in the field of innovation. In favor of intelligent industry, we bet on personal health and for clean energy. At the same time, we meet with four choices: wholesome nourishment, eruption, suffering cities, culture, and creation manufactures. At this ten o'clock, during research and development, we've been engaged to make $20,000 private public investments. It's about 6% of the budget resources in the Eukong year, it's a innovation and it's the key to our future. The ecological and neuroptic transition. This global transition puts us in the face of the challenge of suffering and of the most authentic transformation. Our answer is a great arrangement for the climate, with five deeds of activity: reassembled energy, change of climate, biodybertsity, circular economy, movable and bearable transport. Our commitment is to challenge these three transitions as co-workers, combine strategy, will, and private public investment. fourth challenge: Self-recognized and strengthened. The main project for Euskade is the auto-gumber. We share the first goal. To fill the whole state of Guernica, which is our self-portrait. We also agree with the necessity of penetrating into the auto-generacy, in the sphere of a new reality of the European Union, and requiring reformulation. The United States of Guernica confessed to the identity of our people, which has been followed by the organization of Euskadi. The state has given us the chance of a social progress, of well-being, and of justice at the present day. Now, we have to move forward to take care of the self-explanatory and effective auto-organizations. To advance in effective and guaranteed self-government, to agree the modernization of that form of unique and bilateral relationship that symbolizes our historical rights. The updating of historical rights should include a bilaterality mechanism, which obliges both parties to act politically and legally under a concertation scheme. We have made progress in this Parliament's Self-Government Paper. We have a solid basis that allows us to be positive in order to have a new political status of the future for Euskadi, we have to complete the work begun in the previous legislature. We are a plural society; internal plurality is a constituent element of our way of being. The challenge is to build from the diversity of identities, agree and agree; self-government is pact. The pact connects with our best foral tradition, a tradition on which the two statutory processes have been built, that of 1936 and the Statute of Gernika of 1979. We are faced with the opportunity to reach a new statutory pact for the future, which recognizes our national reality, the uniqueness of Basque self-government, builds a bilateral relationship with the State and favors the international presence and projection of Euskadi. The institutional vertebration of such a complex country with Euskadi requires agreement. The framework of the agreement is this Parliament. I plan 4 reflections on which to sustain a constructive dialogue with the will to agree: First. The aim is to discuss, negotiate and agree on the recognition of the capacity of Basques and Basques to agree and to ensure that the consensus reached is respected. Second thought. The opportunity to strengthen our self-government is based on a new statute, which implies the updating of our historical rights; the updating of the self-government intersects with a deeper root in historical rights, which protects and respects the Constitution, and which, in the following line, entrusts the general updating of this regime outside the Statute. Third. The relations between the Basque Country and the State are approached from the principles of mutual recognition, loyalty, institutional respect, cooperation, coordination, competence and bilateral mechanisms to safeguard the singularities of the external matters, when the State can influence them in the exercise of its constitutional powers. Fourth reflection. The aim is to strengthen Euskadi's relations at European and external level, as well as to promote participation in international treaties, conventions and agreements. The challenge is to reach a strong consensus in this House on a political project for the future. A consensus that will make it possible to materialize the majority desire of Basque society, concrete in the updating and deepening of our self-government. This is the best investment to further consolidate public services, the response to the pandemic and the Basque welfare system. I conclude with a reflection on the political future of Euskadi. Our hand is stretched out to extend the culture of collaboration. I have advanced that our Government programme will include 15 country objectives. Today, I highlight five of particular importance: to boost economic recovery so that unemployment can be below 10%; to raise investment in R & D above the European average; to bring poverty rates below 9%; to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% and to achieve 20% in renewable energy in final consumption; to renew the professional workforce of Osakidetza with 4,000 people and to strengthen primary care. These objectives represent our commitment to responding to the main demands and needs of society at the beginning of this new stage. It's been a great honor to replace society with a hard work for the economic situation we lived eight years ago and over the social scale. This society, just as it was beginning to take the upper part of the situation, was obliged to resist the harsh pandem of the coronabirus. Today, I've presented precise priorities and commitments in detail. They rely on the agreement obtained between the Jeltzai Party and the Socialist Social Party of the Basque Party. This is our answer, to make our proposal a future choice. This arrangement is based on the same level of commitment and responsibility to this new stage. More illusions, because I realize the importance of the moment we live in. I guarantee a Basque Government based on a realistic and close-knit vision of the problems; I guarantee the values of integrity and honesty; I guarantee what I best know how to do: work with rigour, responsibility and perseverance, fostering agreement and collaboration for the common good. Euskadi is an example of collaboration. Political diversity has forced us to seek and braid agreements. The Basque institutional architecture has shown us the need to cooperate. The serious crises we have experienced over the past 40 years have taught us that public-private collaboration is the best way forward. The history of terrorism, violence and pain has shown us the value of social coexistence. I stand before this Parliament with the government agreement signed between two different political parties. It is a solid and very advanced agreement. I note before this Parliament some of the commitments that we have prioritized: a youth employment plan that will facilitate a first job experience for 30,000 young people; contribute to the creation of 4,000 new businesses and micro-enterprises; allocate EUR 140 million to local and regional employment plans, with a special impact on the regions of preferential action; special labour inspection plans to regularise and transform work contracts into indefinite for an average of 7,000 people per year; a strategic industrial development plan, with the aim of ensuring that industry and advanced services account for 40% of our gross domestic product; promote 120 strategic research projects; incorporate 100 new researchers of excellence into the Ikerbasque network; increase the production of organic agriculture up to 7,500 hectares; improve the continuity rate of teachers in public centres by more than 80%; extend dual vocational training to all training cycles and ensure that 5,000 Basque companies adhere to this system; tele-assistance service for all people over 80 years of age; promote a social and political pact for the rationalisation of working hours, which can be combined with work. These are initiatives and commitments resulting from the agreement. Euskadi needs more political agreement to take on the challenges and reforms that we must tackle. Agreements, coordination and concerted action between public institutions. Also more public-private collaboration. We live a time of agreement, covenant and social consensus. The new Basque Government shares a diagnosis of the situation, a strategy and a shared vision of priorities in this new phase. We promote a contract with the company. A great Auzolana From Lehendakaritza we will drive the collaborative governance model. In the institutional sphere, with outlaws. Collaborative governance in the social and economic fields, enhancing the socio-economic table. Also through the law of transparency and citizen participation that we will pass this legislature. Collaborative governance model to advance the Sustainable Development Goals, through the Basque Country Strategy 2030. Months and years come hard. Very hard. I am convinced that Euskadi will rise. Let's get on with it. We will guarantee the future of our country. We enter the legislature with renewed illusion and a new spirit. The spirit of this stage is to advance in the culture of co-responsibility, to exercise collaborative governance, to prioritise economic recovery and employment opportunities, to foster harmonious development of society, and to foster alliances and institutional and political, economic and social pacts. I am fully convinced that working together and rigorously, putting people at the centre, we will succeed in overcoming the objectives set out, and we will be able to move this country forward. Euskadi, back in motion. All the people maintain that, from the position of their political position, they must be abandoned to the kinds of politics which excite quarrels, divisions, and contests. I agree. The fundamental principles which ought to regulate political relations are the will of dialogue, negotiation, and agreement. That's the way I believe it. This path will give an effective answer to the claims of the Basque Society. The value of politics consists in this. To negotiate, negotiate, and negotiate will be the means to regain a large portion of the prestige which politics has lost. This is our commitment and contribution: the co-ordination of the institutions, co-workers, and the harmonious development of society. With a solid program, with a precise purpose of town, and with all the preparations for sharing ideas, agreements, and co-workers, I require the trust of this parliament to be president of Euscadicus. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. As the presidents have finished speaking, this whole meeting is suspended until 14:30 p.m. It was eleven o'clock in the morning and forty-one. At two o'clock in the afternoon, and at thirty-one o'clock the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u7	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. Next, the representatives of the parliamentary groups will speak, from the smallest to the larger, each for twenty minutes, and, in the case of the Mist Group, within ten minutes. So, Mrs Martínnez, representing the Mist team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u8	Good afternoon, everyone. As in today's 1980s, ETA murdered Antonio Fernández, a port worker, in Santurce. Two staves approached him behind his back, and left two orphans. EH Bildu's bench has not yet condemned this murder. For years, this Parliament has witnessed the construction of an impossible, illegitimate and elitist political project, the project of an independent Basque country. A project, Euskadi, which has been built on blackmail, hatred of Spain and the Spanish, extortion and even murder. While some in the streets of Spain moved the tree on the basis of violence, many of you, the Basque political class, collected nuts. But the separatist project they seek is doomed to failure, both for its very idea of forcing the Basques to renounce a part of their identity and for the methods they have used for their realization: death, hatred and blackmail. The raison d'être of Vox and the reason why more than 17,500 Basques have trusted us with their vote is precisely to point out to those who have created the discourse of hatred for Spain, those who have injected it into Basque society and those who, with their silence, have become accomplices to separatism and violence. And in response to Vox's success, the Basque political class, today here, has imposed a health cord on a political force that has legitimately achieved representation in this Parliament, thanks to the votes of thousands of people. It is noted that they do not know Vox: the more they insult and silence our voters the more we grow. Because his health cord does not seek to silence me or my acronyms, but the thousands of Basques who freely defend the ideas I represent. They carry out, in this legislature, a practice that they were unable to carry out with HB in the times of the head of ETA, Josu Ternera, and intense criminal activity of the band. Sanitary cords against terrorism and against the bench where three terrorists sit? Yeah. Do sanitary cords against corruption, the one whose parties know so much – the PNV sounds like the Margüello case, the PSOE the ERE of Andalusia and no one should forget those decades of extortion of entrepreneurs exercised by Herri Batasuna and its surroundings –? My presence in this House has been an unexpected examination for you, and you have suspended it in a loud and clear manner. They have shown that their idea of democracy is that of the revolutionary tax; you are free to exist, to think and to do whatever you want, whenever it coincides with my thing. Your note, in respect of democracy, Mr PNV and Mr PSE, has been as low as that obtained in the face of the test of the pandemic that we still suffer. I suspect so strongly that it is a fact that the present state of autonomy has broken. What is the result after six months of pandemic? 17 health protocols, 17 returns to school, absolute lack of leadership, deep uncoordination, an unbearable number of dead people and two million Basques abandoned to their fate, to whom you and your advisor have had no hesitation in taking responsibility for the bad results of your painful management. An example of this right now: the embarrassing spectacle that the Minister of Education and his advisor Uriarte have starred. Mr Urkullu, thousands of parents of pupils, thousands of teachers, all the management teams of educational institutions, public, private and concerted, tens of thousands of people who provide services in the educational field, plunged into uncertainty for months, because no one took responsibility for organizing, preparing, designing, safe scenarios. Absolute indefinition because neither minister nor counselor has parked their vacation to work. And, reached an agreement of minimals, very minimals, you arrive and demarcate. A further irresponsibility that jeopardizes the right of our children to free and quality education. Euskadi is a leader in outbreaks, in contagion, in disorganization, in opacity, in foresight... The balance of his management of the coronavirus is as catastrophic as that of his central government partners. That is why, this same month, Vox will try to end, by means of the motion of censure, the Socialcommunist Government, which you set up in Moncloa, and which has only led the Spaniards to sickness and ruin. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis we are facing is going to leave most of Basque citizens absolutely unprotected. And its political model is not going to solve any of its problems, as it leads thousands of self-employed and entrepreneurs to ruin, families without any recourse, unemployed without the possibility of re-entering an increasingly racist labour market, young and not so young without a prospect of the future, companies with an uncertain future in a context of permanent uncertainty, Tubacex, Siemens-Gamesa, Aernnova, Mercedes, who tremble before a bicephalic PNV-PSOE government, which today says "a" for tomorrow to say "b" and return to "a" when it suits him best. And far from concentrating your efforts and energies on resolving such a dramatic situation, you continue with your ancestral commitment to secession, the most insolidary political project that exists. There are already few people who associate PNV with good management. You, as your party and your ally Pedro Sánchez, are neighborhood trilers and lounge opportunists. And all this without counting the covert unemployment of the ERTEs, the future EREs, which are going to provoke an avalanche of misery, as has never been seen before in the Basque Autonomous Community. How can it be so in one of the richest areas of the country?, in fact, what does that social bet that you are so vocal about?, in what do our resources escape? I will tell you: in administrative duplicities and institutions that are chiringuitos, such as Emakunde, in which to keep their many grateful stomachs happy; in means of propaganda, such as the ETB, the most expensive autonomous television of Spain per inhabitant; in a ridiculous and very expensive territorial model, based on the confrontation between territories for a ferret control; the 400,000 euros that are wasted annually in Iparralde, for the imposition of the Basque, as part of its project of the illusory Euskal Herria united; in the promotion of an indiscriminate immigration, broth of ghetto cultivation, which directly and unbearablely affects the workers. I will also tell you a secret: Basques do not charge, on average, 50,000 euros a year, as their half a hundred advisors. They have made a necessary resource for people in a very precarious situation, the GIR, into a system of chronification of poverty and of effect called for illegal immigration. The Basque Country, its workers, need real opportunities to achieve a paid occupation, not an endless list of public offices and an entourage of people hanging from power waiting for their pay. Basque citizenship needs you to get to work and we need you to let us work. Far from seeking social justice, solidarity and equality, your country project is based on the falsification of history, citizenship understood as vassal and confrontation between equals, but this lie cannot last forever; I am here, Vox is here, to awaken from this fatal lethargy to as many people as are willing to listen to us, and they are more than you believe or handle in your manipulated surveys. Mrs Iriarte, candidate, you are the antithesis of what Spain represents. You represent the hatred of your fellow citizens, the most recalcitrant mafia that has existed in Europe in the last 100 years, the most cruel organized crime in a democracy, an abominable gender struggle, falsifying ecology, cruelty and intolerance, and you still do not pay your debt to more than 850 people killed by ETA, something we will never forgive, neither to you nor to those who sit next to you in this House. Not only are we not going to vote for them as a candidate for lehendakari; we are not going to support a single document that comes with its acronyms, HB or anyone who chooses. Our main objective in this Parliament is for you to disappear from the political map. The illegalization of ETA's heirs is the most democratic action that can be done in this country, no matter how much Sánchez and the PSOE whitewash them by reaching agreements with you in Madrid; we do not forget, I do not forget, they will always face me, in memory and for the dignity of the thousands of people to whom they have caused irreparable damage. It is a profound injustice that you have representation here in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, Vox has arrived in this Parliament as a wall of containment in front of all those who want to destroy unity and freedom in Spain, a country of which they were also illustrious Basque parents. And the desire to end Spain is the only thing that unites the four formations that have subscribed to the shameful health cord with which they intend to silence thousands of citizens. Our project, despite the falsehoods of its propaganda, is based on freedom, equality, solidarity and unity. It is a project to solve real problems; therefore, we will defend the ideas for which we have been chosen: to put an end to years of indoctrination in hatred of Spain and the Spaniards, by imposing the language and exile of those who did not enter their unique model of good Basque; to return the competences of health and education to the nation, an urgency after the failure of the state of autonomy in the management of the current pandemic; for immigration according to the real economic and social needs, immigration integrated into our society, without ghettos, respectful immigration with the society that welcomes it; for the immediate expulsion of the okupas; to all will answer an eviction. We have to protect the families. I must also tell you that, despite your anti-democratic reduction in my speaking time to a third, ten miserable minutes, I have had time to sing to you those truths that others with thirty minutes do not tell you; in short, so that in this Parliament we can hear again, after so long, a phrase: live Spain! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u9	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. "Essulka Popularo-Ciudadans has the word, Mr. Iturbá, your word is yours."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u10	Congressmen, all good afternoons. Before we start, I want to remember all the people who died because of this pandemy, and to show their relatives the solidarity and memory of my group. And we also wish to give them a quick cure for sick people. And I have to bring them to this meeting, two hundred days later, names from Alberto Solozin and Joaquín Beltran. The two families destroyed by the mines, victims of the largest ruin in our land. I'm sure you should show more sympathy if everyone knows. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to remind the whole of our society, because it is precisely the Basques, their hopes and their future that must reinvigorate the political life of our Community. This commitment and the willingness to serve all our fellow citizens will guide the actions of our parliamentary group, the People's Party and Citizens. It will be so from the first day, from our intervention in this very investiture. A full with little suspense and no unknown. In fact, we have known for days that Mr Urkullu has the necessary votes to be invested again as lehendakari, and we know that Bildu's offer, supposedly alternative, does not have them. But in democratic terms it is not possible to put both candidates on an equal footing. You, Mrs Iriarte, have come to formal legality; but as long as you do not condemn ETA terrorism and its criminal trajectory, you will not achieve democracy. They have that bridge to cross, and there is no excuse in democracy to justify their refusal to do so. His candidacy therefore does not meet the ethical minimum required in democracy, and does not represent something we can wish for the future of this society. I take this opportunity to say that we do remember the victims of ETA terrorism, who are part of the memory and history of Euskadi and the rest of Spain, and who contribute so much to the defence of the peace and freedom of all of us. And we remember very well the surrender and suffering, in defense of democratic freedoms, also of the security forces, as victims of terrorism, Ertzaintza, National Police, Civil Guard, to which some owe the life in this House and to which you, without any disguise, continue to harass as we have just seen in Alsasúa. All my affection and support for the Civil Guard's body. And, therefore, I think I have been clear and should not waste any more time on this candidacy, so I am addressing you now, Mr Urkullu. You will already be this afternoon lehendakari, if things go well with him – I imagine they will go well with him, for the support he has – and will re-edit his pact with the Basque Socialists. Given what you have seen in your previous terms, let me tell you that, from our position, it is not good news. There is a high risk that we will be faced with more of the same things that we have experienced in the previous legislature: sharing of chairs and failed identity debates, supporting Sánchez and Iglesias against the general interest of Spanish society and, therefore, of the Basque, proposals for the future that divide and confront the Basques, a failed management, marked by paralysis, irregularities and also corruption and that, finally, it is portrayed in the grotesque image that returns the mirrors of Zaldibar and the pandemic of the COVID-19. I therefore announce that our vote will be against your investiture, Mr Urkullu, against by abstaining, which is the only way in which our unique Rules – or, rather, the abusive interpretation that is being made of it and that we will continue to try to change in this House – allow us to oppose the investiture of a candidate in this Basque Parliament. We will oppose your investiture, because we have little hope that your performance will improve with respect to previous legislatures. Neither their actions following the elections nor the functioning government's actions in the face of the pandemic, nor the negotiation of the new agreement with the Socialist Party, invite confidence in a positive change. The risk is that it's more of the same. And the key question at the end is that of the agenda. Will your Government be at the service of the Basques' agenda or will your Government be at the service of the nationalist agenda, as you have done so far and as you pointed out for the future, in a position, by far, very uninstitutional, the President of the House in the first minute of the new legislature? And if, as I believe, the nationalist agenda prevails, does it already count on the service – the silence, forgiveness – of a Socialist Party willing to swallow with the interests of Pedro Sánchez, ahead of the priorities and concerns of the Basques? That's what I answer to. I think, and you know it too... I think he's counting on it. Nothing in your action after the elections allows you to rely on a future government focused on the Basques' agenda, which should be, Mr Urkullu, focused on your concerns, to achieve great agreements to solve your problems and lead the whole Basque society, not a part of this society. For starters, Mr Urkullu, you were the most voted candidate. You thought it unnecessary to meet with the different political leaders after the elections. I attributed that touch of pride to Mr. Sanchez, but you can see that everything sticks between partners. Tradition says that it is a round to seek support, with which it might have already counted, but that it would also have allowed to probe other possibilities of agreement. In failing to do so, he despises the other groups in the House; but, above all, he reveals his disinterest in reaching great pacts at the service of Basque society. That's a bad start, from my point of view. Everything indicates, as has been the case with the negotiation of the Basque Nationalist Party-Socialist Party, that it has been a paripé; that, as I said, our intuition, and that we denounce already in its day, is that the future was already agreed from before the elections; that we have attended a mere farce, which took weeks in time, until September, to capture only the media focus after the summer. So much electoral urgency and now no rush to have a fully operational Government. The exact opposite of what they committed in July. And to finish, that basic document, which hardly brings anything and which is a brief fruit of as intense as pretended negotiations, followed, moreover, by a coalition agreement surrounded by secrecy until today. And that's that in secret covenants you seem to be specialists. We have before known secret covenants and conversations with Mr Sánchez or with Otegi, which remain in everyone's mind. And the perception on the street is mocking Basque society, stunned by the "great stumbling block", which is the supposed difficulty of having a socialist vice-lehendakari, or one of each partner: PNV the first, logically, and Mrs. Mendia I imagine will be the second. I don't know what they'll finally decide, but I'm telling you that the Vice President is not just a title. The last one we met, Mrs Zenarruzabeitia, had a dozen and a half senior positions in her chart, just as vice president. It would be good if you could clarify your intentions in this regard, Mr Urkullu, because multiplying vice-presidencies is not cheap and, perhaps, that is another tactic of your camouflage with Pedro Sánchez. The Basques therefore wonder with which it is falling, what is the point of all this game of chairs, internal balances of the government apart. At this point, we can only think of the use of this government as an employment agency for the PNV and the Socialist Party. And why in commenting on this I have remembered the 1,000 socialist advisers in Moncloa. All of this, Mr Urkullu, is adorned with his well-known contempt for Parliament and with the background for six months of chaotic management in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, six months with the dissolved Parliament, sown with difficulties for the control of the Government, of obstacles to appear before the Permanent Chamber, of regulatory abuses restricting the capacity of the opposition and of minimal accountability. All of them have increased in recent weeks with the Government already in office. And after all this, Mr Urkullu, from tomorrow, reality will remain out there, the harsh reality that in this 2020 we all live every day in Basques. The reality of thousands of people killed by pandemics and their families, the anguish of those who have their loved ones living in a residence; the reality of the growth of unemployment, the thousands of people in ERTE and ERE, the self-employed who have ceased their activity or the traders who have come down or are thinking of going down the blind; the reality of the unknowns and fears of returning to school, of the possibility or impossibility of reconciling the working and family life of some, if the youngest in the family cannot return to the classrooms, as we know; the reality, the raw reality, of our young people, of our best prepared talent, that every Sunday they flood bus stations and airports, and that they seek out of the Basque Country a future job and opportunities that here, Mr Urkullu, neither have nor expect to have them. I must say here that also the political use you make of the Basque does not help; you turn it into a wall between Basques and a remembrance, in sight it is, to retain on some occasions your own talent and attract the outsider and both of us are quite needy, as to despise it and waste it. The reality also of the rebounds, of the contagions, of the selective confinements, of the quarantines, of new deaths every day, that sprinkle our geography and our lives, while his Government blames the Basques for what is happening. Isn't that right, Counselor? You, it seems, are as always free of any responsibility. And of how we have come to this reality, I say, that some, some responsibility must lie with you, your Government and the parties that support it. After all, we have lived in Euskadi one of the worst situations in the country of the world that has faced the worst and is facing the pandemic, and now with the rebounds we remain among the worst. The difference is that here we do not experience the political and administrative chaos of Catalonia or the unfortunate management by the central government of a large airport, such as that of Madrid, nor the indispensable presence of temporary workers, as happens in Aragon. So, what's the explanation for us being the way we are? But today, however, we haven't heard a word of sincere self-criticism – let me tell you this without writing – either because of the drama that has not been lived for weeks in residences and hospitals, or because of the chaotic management of Lanbide, unable to respond to citizens' demands, or because of the abandonment of schools to their fate by a Department of Education that is neither expected nor expected, absent in August, betting, according to the day, on face-to-face education, online education And that lack of self-criticism is already a bad start, when you come to ask for the confidence of the House, that reality, which may be even harsher, because of its economic and social consequences, within a few months, as you yourself have repeated in your earlier speech, is the one that demands your attention as ruler. To face it is their first and main responsibility, because that reality is the one that today focuses all the concerns of Basque citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time I would also like to commit our work and my group's efforts to tackle this reality: our willingness to seek agreements that will enable us to deal with the pandemic and to abandon, as soon as possible, its devastating economic and social effects. It is also our responsibility, from the opposition yes, to make proposals, to add, to try to give answers to the anguish that today practically all our fellow citizens are experiencing. To this end, Mr Urkullu, you do have my hand stretched out and that of our group, a hand stretched out to agree to the service of Basque society. And throughout the rest of my speech, Mr Urkullu, I will point out at least a dozen subjects for the agreement, subjects in which, I believe, government and opposition, more than ever at this time, looking to the Basques, we must look for meeting points and row in the same direction. But I must also warn you that facing the reality of the Basques is incompatible with other things, it is incompatible with the double game, with playing the two majorities in this House. It is not possible to work on Mondays in the management of the government, as plan A, and to dedicate on Tuesdays with Bildu to developing an agenda only for nationalists, as plan B, seeking scenarios of constitutional rupture, driving its famous new status, with Socialists consenting, swallowing and profiled on this issue. The coalition that I represent in this debate, the People's Party and Citizens, you know, we defend the Constitution and the Statute, we defend the Concert and the Forality, and we do so because we consider that they constitute the framework of coexistence and freedoms best suited to understanding between Basques and with the rest of the Spaniards. We are aware, and you too, Mr Urkullu, that your new status begins by dividing us and confronting the Basques themselves, as Ibarretxe's plan has already done. And that's why they were careful to keep it in the drawer during the long election period we've been through. That has been their game in the past legislature, and that is what the differences with the Socialist Party point to in their agreement to form the new government. That is an irresponsible game, contrary to the interest of the Basques. And that they sign a document with the Socialists to narrow their differences on this issue does not benefit the Basques at all. Moreover, Mrs. Mendia, let me tell you, that you signing a "paper" with the Basque Nationalist Party will not rid you of the paper the day Mr. Urkullu pushes this scenario of rupture, nor will we rid the Basques of the unfortunate effects of that double game, as we already live with the famous plan of Ibarretxe. I would also like to tell you that the interest of the Basques in this iron pact in support of Sánchez and his government with Podemos is not being served either. You, Mr Urkullu, took Pedro Sánchez to the Moncloa and then supported his investiture to form the present government. You are responsible for Spain's worst government in one of the worst moments of our history. And perhaps it is better, in the interests of the Basques, to reach agreements in this House and to make approaches that might displease Mr Sánchez. And I invite you to take that path. For example, facing the economic and social reality that we are experiencing requires, at this time, the extension of the temporary validity of the ERTE beyond 30 September. We have proposed to take them until 31 December or until the end of the first quarter of 2021. That would give many families some peace of mind; it would avoid further destruction of employment, and would allow many businesses to cope with the coming months without being shut down. Moreover, the interest of Basques in the extension of ERTs due to the pandemic to other sectors of activity. First they were hospitality, commerce, tourism. Now they are industrial sectors, such as automotive, equipment goods, aeronautics, which in September face their worst scenario, you know. Recovering the industry after closure requires a titanic effort. And the ERTE are the instrument to win a precious time. We have raised this debate in the House. This is the first issue on which the Government and the opposition must take a joint position with Mr Sánchez's Government, in the interests of the Basques. How should we do that, as I propose to you, despite your support for Mr Sánchez, to oppose the seizure of the remnants of local entities, uniquely municipalities, by the central government, through the unacceptable blackmail that you know. It is not only a question of defending forality and the Concerto, which also; it is not only a question of achieving an exception for the Basque Country, it is a question of avoiding in solidarity an expoliation that violates local autonomy, recognized in the Spanish Constitution and that prevents the municipalities from counting all the resources to deal with the consequences of the COVID-19. Failure to do so would mean putting the interests of the PNV and Mr Sánchez before the interests of the Basques. Nor is the interest of the Basques served by throwing a cloak of silence on certain issues, pretending that it does not touch now. This week the OPE of Osakidetza comes back to date, with all its rosary of corruption, irregularities, criminal implications... It is possible, by the way, that that cod has reduced its capacity in the fight against the pandemic, apart from damaging the credibility of our administration. And it is that in the past legislature some have discovered that Euskadi is not an oasis of corruption, a corruption that has not even mentioned in his government agreement, limited, without any modesty, to a division of power, as I have said before. It is not possible to cover in silence, without determining political responsibilities, the case of Miguel, with practices that the Prosecutor's Office compared with those of the Sicilian mafia, according to them, or so many other cases in recent years. Because this attitude would make us political correspondents for that same corruption. The less you can forget about Zaldibar. We must not only remind the victims of the catastrophe, as I did at the beginning of this intervention; we must remember the facts, know what happened, who failed, why he failed in Zaldibar. We do not have the capacity to push a committee of inquiry here in the House as a single group, as just a group, which, moreover, we all know that the majority of the government would veto it. The criminal aspects are already the subject of judicial investigation, as you yourself have repeated this morning. But we must go further, in the interest of all Basques. We must examine our landfill policy, know the management, inspections, controls, and landfills of non-urban waste, such as Zaldibar. It is essential to do so to prevent other similar situations, to prevent this from happening again in the future. This House must do this work, for example, by making a dedicated presentation on it. This is the third issue on which we believe that agreements between government and opposition should be reached here in this Parliament, and that a responsible executive should not elude. I have already announced that this is a debate that we will be raising sooner rather than later. So far the attitudes, the actions, the purposes... of the new Government, which we believe is incompatible with the interests of the Basques. But he said before, precisely, that our purpose is to focus on this interest. And, today, the interest of the Basques goes, inescapably, to confront the pandemic of the COVID-19 and its consequences in all the social and economic spheres of our land. It is necessary to rectify so many mistakes made and, notably, so much time lost during the management of the pandemic. Yours has been a clearly improved management. In the field of health, September began with the outbreaks of infection, about 15,000 in August, and worrying increases in the number of hospital incomes, from 83 in July to 737 in August. And in that of deaths as well, as you well know. And with primary care, moreover, under increasing pressure, as complaints are multiplied by the poor functioning of telephone care. There is no news that, in the face of this second wave of the pandemic, they think they have a real committee of experts, rather than those loyally appointed to the finger who formed them in haste. Nor does it seem that they are going to amend on the subject of trackers the contempt committed, by rejecting the collaboration of the EMU at the worst times for our society. The homes of the elderly are again a source of concern and anguish, with 17 deaths in August, after living terrible situations. It is therefore essential to move quickly towards a genuine social and health area, which avoids a new tragedy. Aware of all this, we are willing to tie the shoulder, as I have been exposing it. First, we need to reach a pact to strengthen health, especially primary care. A pact that revises the Primary Care Strategy, increases human and material resources, and strengthens home and telephone care for both patients with COPID-19 and chronic patients. Secondly, we must agree on a new strategy for social and health care, and we must do so urgently. A strategy that resolves the needs of the elderly in residences and responds to the needs of an increasingly ageing population in our land. On that basis, we will be able to assess the current residential model and take steps to address the identified deficiencies. In these two agreements we can and must work from tomorrow, Mr Urkullu. In the field of education, today, on 3 September, the number of families that are not clear with the start of their children's courses is staggering. Safety concerns; concerns, as I told you before, the reconciliation of parents' work with the announcements made from Education; concerns many families about the difficulty of having means for online education This can't be expected any more. We are aware of that. But meeting the start of the course has demands and costs, which today are not resolved. We therefore propose an agreement to strengthen budget allocations to meet the new needs of education in public, concerted and special education centres, as well as in our universities, in both personal and material and investment media. We also need an agreement to give a strong impetus to digitisation, because delaying it is a luxury that we cannot afford as a society. We must ensure that the entire population has access to computer and digital media, overcoming the technological gap that threatens to become a new source of social and intergenerational inequality. And, generally speaking – as I have talked about health and education – it is necessary to strengthen employment in essential public services, which have been key to the pandemic. A pact that allows us to act quickly on this issue will have our best disposition from the very beginning. In the economic and labour sphere, I have spoken before about the ERTE, and now I would have liked to have said something good about Lanbide. The biggest failure, still uncorrected, of our administration in the face of the pandemic, Mr Urkullu. Total collapse. Finding a different rating is not easy. It was an essential reform, which they were unable to pass in the last legislature, and which has generated an unsustainable situation, and with the levels of unemployment rising to figures from the 2008 crisis. Yesterday we learned of 3,000 new Basques who in the last month have gone on to thicken the list of unemployment. It's already nearly 30,000 in the pandemic semester we've been carrying. In your Basque oasis you destroy employment, Mr Urkullu. There is no need to stress the concern that it represents for self-employed people, traders, SMEs or entrepreneurs in general, and it also represents for our group at this time. That is why, once again, we show you our willingness to urgently agree on the Lanbide reform. An in-depth reform, allowing for a real Basque employment service, with the means, resources and staff needed to fulfil its key role right now and in the foreseeable future scenario. It is also essential to agree and implement aid and support programmes for self-employed people, traders and SMEs, avoiding the abandonment of activity and the destruction of more jobs. It would be good for these sectors to know, as soon as possible, the amounts from the European Union's aid funds, which have already been guaranteed and which we are going to receive in this Community. The agreement must also be possible in this area. And when I come to this point, I want to stress that for our coalition there is an inescapable priority: families. Basque families who need support, support and reforms to face an unprecedented scenario in their day-to-day lives. This support plan for families must be shared, promoted, with all speed, overcoming the desire of the previous legislature. And I offer you from now on, our full readiness to achieve that agreement. And I do not forget, I cannot forget, something that is in everyone's mind, taxation, which is also an instrument to be used to deal with the pandemic and its social and economic consequences. Our competence framework is what it is, but I offer you our willingness to negotiate, in the appropriate area, a fiscal pact that will facilitate the transit of families, businesses and self-employed in the coming years, to overcome the impact of COVID-19. I'm finishing up. Finally, not because it is less important, I think we should be able to give an impetus to R & D+i. A few days ago, his Government had been talking about billions of euro investments in this area for the coming years; let us sit down and agree on how to do so; let us urgently promote R & D+i support programmes, which will strengthen the competitiveness of our companies and strengthen our technological and research centres, which are so necessary right now. As I said, Mr Urkullu has already concluded: probably the number of our discrepancies, the discrepancies between your group and mine, your Government and our group, is greater than that of our coincidences, but I have already stressed before that we are also aware of our responsibility, as an opposition, to the citizens, and we want to believe that it is possible to agree on wills. I have offered you agreements on three different aspects, when the future is approached from this hard present as you know. In his hand he is promoting this indispensable dialogue, giving priority, responsibly, to the agenda of the Basques, in the face of the irresponsible scenario, which is also about the failure, of more instability, of more uncertainty, which represents or would represent the agenda of the nationalist front. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u11	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Together the representatives of the Podemos-IU team... Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u12	Good evening, congressmen. It is true that the constitution of the new Basque Government is in an exceptional situation with few precedents, but we believe that it is also true that the enormous socio-economic consequences of the pandemic crisis are not so new. Facing the pandemic is, for Elkarrekin Podemos-IU, also facing the unjust economic model in which our society is based. Facing the pandemic requires for us and ourselves a change in the distribution of wealth that is created here in Euskadi and the application of policies that prevent, once again, it is the popular classes and the working people who pay the bill again. We have heard that the virus does not understand social classes, which affects us all equally. It is not true: the impact is greater on the strata with less economic resources and, above all, the social and economic consequences are being suffered by the working class of this country, consequences of the pandemic, but also consequences of certain political decisions and attitudes with which it is confronted. Full sectors that do not find support in the policies of the Basque Government, in these months of pandemic, redundancies in companies that have generated large dividends to their shareholders and owners in recent years; approaches to wage reductions; messages, again, about the need to hold the shoulders of public employees, something we already know to which it translates; lack of professionals, or sufficient professionals, in the primary care of our health centres; chaos and improvisation at the start of the course in our educational system; lack of negotiation with trade unions, and almost exclusive calls for individual responsibility for a collective problem. For Elkarrekin Podemos-IU, these are the members with whom the candidacy that today will obtain the absolute majority of this Parliament is presented. Obviously, it won't be with our support. It is true that, in the face of the pandemic, we are all talking about the need for agreements and collaboration. The lehendakari that is chosen today with our rejection will not find in Elkarekin Podemos-IU a hollow opposition; it will not find an opposition based on confrontation because yes. Our group will act on the specific policies, on each specific policy. It will be their contents that will mark our position of confrontation or agreement. Today we reject his candidacy because we do not share his policies; we have told him on other occasions. We do not share its model of outsourcing of public services, a model that entails greater spending and worse working conditions for workers. A model of concerts and awards, which involves a massive transfer of public money to the hands of private companies that are in constant conflict with the workers for their working conditions. We do not share his educational model which places Euskadi as the territory of the State, and of all Europe, which more public money is intended to subsidize private education. And we do not share a model based on unfair taxation, where the main tax burden continues to fall on the more than punished working class. For four years, we have insisted on the need for fiscal changes and the Basque Government was telling us that it did not touch, that it would already be spoken in 2020. That's right, the only changes we've known have been agreed with the People's Party; now, in 2020, they're telling us again that it's soon. Meanwhile, we have seen how in Euskadi, thanks to this model, grossly increased the differences between income from capital and income from work. Ultimately, an increase in inequality, which the pandemic can only aggravate if these policies are not changed. Therefore, in Elkarrekin Podemos-IU we have it clear: if the tax model is not changed, that reconstruction that we all talk about will end up paying exclusively to the working class, exactly as in the previous crisis. As you know, our coalition presented itself to the elections with a risky but clear message, based on something I said here four years ago: we do not share the country model and the policies of the PNV. And that is why we intended to build the left-wing alternative to these policies with a minimum programme and with the only possible arithmetic option in Parliament. Like four years ago, the idea was discarded by the Socialist Party and by Euskal Herria Bildu, this time without even waiting for the election results. Some say patience is a revolutionary virtue. That is why we tell them that we neither regret that approach nor will we give up trying to build that alternative. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u13	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Next, madam, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u14	Hello, good evening to you all. Thank you, ma'am. Partners, guests, members of the legislature. We heard it, Mr. Urkullu, your speech today. You spent a long hour in selling our system's welfare by the influence of your government. It may be said that we must all be proud of this paradise, in which, thanks to your government, we will face this sanitary, social, economic crisis and overcome it. But we don't see it that way. This Pandemia has clearly shown the weakness of our model of development; it is because this weakness is founded on wrong columns. We live in a political culture, which is not the priority of protecting the community, but of making some individuals rich easily. Its "Basque oasis" already made waters before the pandemic, with the privatization of health and education, with precarious work, with partisan clientelism and with a long et cetera. Today, unfortunately, and at the stroke of coronavirus, it has made waters everywhere. More and more families are living below the poverty line, more need for human and material resources to support public health, care and education, more mass layoffs and ERTS, and less investment in culture or in support of the primary sector. Today, more than ever, Euskati needs a powerful government. But a powerful government to be able to listen to all social causes and govern them all, not only for some. A government that won't work in the final protocols and will guarantee us. This is why I wish to extend my words to the citizens of Esscal in general; but especially to those who suffer on their skin, our society shows a deeper and deeper inequality. And, of course, the effect of the pandemia to those who are suffering directly. In this context caused by Pandemia, if anything be clear, if anything be discovered, it is as follows: that we ought to put them in the middle of our beauties, and not in the periphery. The gestures of solidarity and generosity that Basque citizenship has shown during the pandemic show us something and it is that empathy, cooperation and commitment remain alive in our society, and this, despite so many years of bombardment of neoliberal dogmas of the "save who can". Of course, if the health crisis caused by COVID-19 has shown us anything, it is this broad consensus that exists in relation to defending public services. Therefore, I wish to thank all those who guard us: In the service of the masters, the laborers who work in households, and also those who cultivate the nutrient, because they allow our peasants our right to feed. Thank you, also, for those who have enabled our teachers, the rights of education in a complex situation. Thanks to all those autonomists who are fighting to keep their business alive. But on the other side of this social surrender your government hasn't been where it should be. Instead of defending common property, the public sector, and its employees, we saw you serving the interests of Confebask these days. The measures have not been taken to improve the conditions of work for these workers, so as to leave the segestio mechantilist part of the member, and the first attention service remains in secondary health service. On the third of June we shall not forget the words directed by the President to the public officers, those public officials who applauded on the balconies. Instead of expressing gratitude, he asked for solidness, saying that they had guaranteed their position, and mentioning the sacrifice of the private sector, and emphasising the difference between the officials and the other workmen. That is to say, the responsibility of the abuse which a number of private enterprises have placed upon the shoulders of public workmen. They were very sad words that weren't worthy of public labor. You don't have to put yourself under the responsibility of oppressing the rights of other workers. Nor should we continue to look elsewhere at the precarious working conditions in the private sector, except when we have given this private sector the key to the management of fundamental rights that we must guarantee for all citizens, or at the serious situation that SMEs are also experiencing. Or to youth, who sees how each time their access to the labour market... their access to the labour market is becoming increasingly difficult. The problem, Mr Urkullu, is not only that the workers of the residences have bad working conditions, the problem is that the privatization of the residences cannot be the excuse to spare us the care given to our elders and to wash our hands in guaranteeing decent working conditions to those who provide them. Honengatik eta bieste razoi batzuengatik, gure tadeak ez du zere algagagaitzaren alde bozkatuko. For that reason and for other reasons, we believe that this country needs a change of course. We believe that it should stop submissively praying to the dictates of the financial elites and the confederation of entrepreneurs. We believe that this country needs to radically change its priorities. We believe that, in order to change economic policies, we must also change the economic culture that you have been promoting, which is based on subordinating democracy to the market, human rights to economic profitability, and replacing it with an economic culture based not on individualistic and insolidary enrichment, but on the common good and the care of the community; that is, on guaranteeing lives that are worthy of being lived. In other words, we must form a system of growth which unites the economy of common well-being and the ends of the feminist economy. I know that you're not entirely compatible with the neoliberal agenda, that you think of social policies, and that you agree with a lot of our goals, that you'll defend yourself within that evil Euscadian globalization that is an oasis. We don't agree with that. That's a diagnosis of a few big businessmans, and we're closer to the diagnosis of unions with those unions you treat so angrily. Euskadin is not an oasis. It is true that in the Euskka, compared with other communities, it has a better result than in the number of broadcastes. In front of this image of the oasis of Euscala, the objective facts show: He says he can't improve public investments because he's a very poor prosecutor, or because he's not strict to those who are very wealthy. That Eukadin is a privatized system of education, which separates us from equality and social inclusium, and in the pursuits of evalution, which shows but little relative results. And not only are we less and less economic oasis, we are also and less and less social oasis. And it's true, they always try to justify their neoliberal policies with... Presuming RGI. But, no matter how much it attempts to patrimonialize it, the RGI exists thanks to the pressure of Basque civil society and the unanimous agreement – yes – that there was in its day among all the political forces represented in this Basque Parliament. It's a collective achievement. And just as we are not the oasis of anything in the economic and social sphere, we are also not immune to the inequality that heteropatriarchy represents for half of the Basque population, for women and for diverse sexual identities. We are affected by the wage gap, as in the rest of the State: the female employment sectors are synonymous with precariousness, and hence poverty. 15 women are assaulted in Euskadi every day by the mere fact of being women, and 6,659 women have to live under the protection of Ertzaintza. According to Emakunde's own report, Equality in Pandemic Times All previous evidence of work on macho violence in crisis contexts, such as that of the COVID-19, has been a warning that the situation of women is worsening, a warning about the lack of resources and the need for structural reforms, and yet we are going late and wrong; we could already have had effective tools in the fight against macho violence, but they missed the opportunity in the past legislature to adapt the law of equality to the duties of protection of victims that the Istanbul Convention obliges us. There are still so many things to do, the form of the public administration, the strategy to avoid the interaction of discrimination, and so on. We are concerned about LGBTIphobia, which continues to be present in our streets and in our institutions, and which is not faced with the deployment of effective policies and resources to guarantee the right of people to be, feel and love as they please. Yes they have been party politics of the PNV, however, others, and in these, unfortunately, we do not lead the rankings Or just accept what we call objective data on the prosecutor's pressure. The American Prosecutor's pressure is not only below the most advanced countries in Europe, but is below the average of Europe, and even below the average in Spain. The Basque Prosecutor is poorer than the Spanish. In all historical lands you lowered the tax on the societates, under the average of the state. You abandoned the tax on great riches in the synagogue. And in the places where you've been in charge, you've pushed the prosecutors on the field for the powerful. It is not fitting that great fortunes at this moment should avoid the want of solidarity in society, in which they have been able to enrich themselves. Porque nadie puede hacerse multimillonari en una reflection solo aprovechandos los recursos de una comunidad (sus infrae Landais, sued, su educatavio, Suservo, sanitio... ) auguien puede hacerse rico, y exste una importante deuda de las élictes respecto a sta sociedad, en cuyo seno poddo enriquecerse. Sin embargo, believers en que los fatos no paguen sus fortunas no paguen mennos que en otros terertorias por los querios emercioles y quetentenes a las que no tiee acceso la crianía corente. The same applies to social investment, which in some sectors is also lower than in other autonomous communities, even though they sometimes have fewer resources than ours. We believe that we cannot get out of this experience that the pandemic has given us and that it has visible the weak seams of our system, that has shown us the fragility and unsustainability in which we have placed life... We can't go out without learning, with the same formulas that led us here. This is a debt that we owe to all the people who have suffered in this pandemic, because it is time for politics to return to being an effective, real instrument to improve people's lives, because we have not only gone through – or are going through – an economic and social crisis resulting from the pandemic, but we are also faced with a deeper crisis, and it seems that we are not giving it importance, that we do not want to see it, that it does not exist, and that it is there, and it is the disaffection that people, that Basque citizenship, feel for the institutions, as a useful tool for change; that is the feeling of impotence, that nothing is going to change and that only remains for us to cap the storm individually and as best we can. I would like to remind you that this government and this Parliament, the resulting government and this Parliament which has been formed here, is only the reflection of the voice, of the political projects, which support only 50% of our society. Well, we have four years to work, so that the remaining 50% feels like their home, that they feel participative and have their own voice in the decisions of this House. We want to rise up against that feeling that things cannot change; we want to remember that, side by side, cooperating, weaving networks, caring for ourselves, is how we face the challenges we face as a society. We believe in the exercise of our sovereignty, our self-government, to face these challenges. We want a self-government to use it, but not as a veto to stop structural changes, which we do need. Jendaren goes up one nahi dugu, bizitzeko, bizi ahal izizeko goes up one. Euskadi has a fundamental challenge ahead, and it is that of putting life in the centre, and we are going to work to ensure that the right to receive care is not translated into an obligation of women to provide them, but rather an obligation of this Government, of all public institutions, to guarantee them, so that as a society we assume the co-responsibility of them. Social reorganisation of care needs to be addressed in order to advance on real equality in order to ensure the sustainability of life. And there are no more excuses for this task. In recent years, residential workers, cleaning women from public institutions, as well as domestic help workers, have been, but not only demand decent conditions for their work, but they also do so from the awareness that the care they provide, the services they provide, are essential to guaranteeing decent lives to the people who depend on them. In recent years, especially during this pandemic, we have seen women domestic workers denounce a work regime that is characterized by the labour exploitation they suffer and that leaves them outside of any social or economic protection. Is this what we want to be cared for? We will work for the common and for quality public services, such as education. The reopening of the course brings us not only to the problem of the health crisis, but also to the most general educational and care model. And we believe that only quality public education guarantees equal opportunities. And here neither is magic, but learning from the one who does it best. For example, as in Finland, the country is considered to be the most egalitarian and efficient education system in the world. This is because what underpins all of its public and educational policies is the consideration that the education system is an instrument for equal opportunities. You have promoted a contrary policy. They have promoted a deeply privatized model, in which a very important part of public resources end up in private institutions, which do not have equal opportunities as a priority and which also reproduce social inequality. In the past legislature, you had the opportunity to correct the bias. It was the citizens themselves who requested it, through a popular legislative initiative, which was promoted by Zubiak Eraikiz, in favor of an inclusive Basque school. And they even refused to process it. And that's because we don't understand school here as we do in Finland. You understand it as an instrument to serve the needs of the market, and not to serve an egalitarian society. Our fundamental work is not only to guarantee the right to education for all the children of Euskadi now, something that only a public, inclusive, secular and free education system gives us full guarantees of success, but we also have the opportunity to learn how to take care of ourselves working together and together from empathy and comfort. Today, at the heart of this issue, the call for an educational strike called for by the Basque unions on 15 September has been announced, calling for a safe and consensual return to school. And from here I would like to demonstrate our support for this demand and our willingness to work to ensure the return to school and the right to education of children. We also want to work to make the right to housing real. There is a need to intervene on the housing market in this Community, where in the last three years a total of 3,430 families have been evicted. The Basque Housing Act recognizes the subjective right to legally occupy decent housing. But has it been effectively guaranteed? Today, as we deliberate here on the formation of the next Basque executive, Victoria, a neighbor of the Benta Berri neighborhood of Donostia, is counting the days for the trial in which the date of his eviction will be determined. Six days and six nights to be determined... in which this institutional promise of a protected housing will become a nightmare, in which the vulture Blackstone fund expels it from its home, whose soil belongs to the Basque Government. What happened? What has happened so that the protected housing that sought to ensure a decent home for the most vulnerable people in our society is the gateway to international speculative capital? We also want to work to ensure that environmental protection is not merely a declaration of intent. In this sense, sustainable mobility involves strengthening a clean public transport system that covers the needs of all citizens, not a few who can afford, for money and location, to travel on a luxury train, which has also generated environmental degradation without return. We will also fight for clean energy production, which does not involve suspicious prospections, which do not end up with an ecological transition plan. We will also fight to ensure that all citizens have access to energy, promoting the democratization of the energy system through self-consumption, shared generation and energy cooperatives. And I'm finishing up. Our parliamentary group will abstain from the proposals for the designation of lehendakari that are being put forward. We will not support the investiture of Iñigo Urkullu, because it represents continuity a model of government that we do not share. And his pact with the PSOE, moreover, only secures more of the same. Our intervention in the investiture of four years ago, in this sense, is today rabid, because with it nothing has changed. This pact only serves to ensure that a party called the left is diluted in a policy of continuous power and to prevent a progressive majority from being viable. We will not support Maddalen Iriarte's candidacy either, because he has no options to prosper and because he cannot have them any more, from the moment he does not integrate to the Basque left. We have always bet on the sum of the progressive forces that we have in Euskadi, to generate the momentum of change of course that we need. We said it in campaign, and we repeat it again. In any case, our opposition will be constructive. We believe that the serious moment that is going through in our society with this pandemic requires self-containment and an extra effort of responsibility. We will hold our shoulders, and we will continue to work with loyalty and a sense of responsibility, as we do in all the institutions we are in. From our critical position with its policies, we will continue to bring to this Parliament our proposals and those of civil society that promote a more free and less unequal and unsustainable society. And we will also try to correct the initiatives that you bring and that, in our view, go the other way. We intend to speak with all the political forces, and we give them a hand, especially those who make a bet on a left-handed Basque government, who place the watch in the centre, and work for the benefit of all the people who live in Eukadin. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u15	Thank you, madam. Basque Socialists? The mountain, ma'am, is your word whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u16	ma'am: Good afternoon, everyone. The President, the President of Maddalen, the other President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, the guests, good afternoon. Well, Mr. Iturgaiz, here I bring you the "paper", in case you consider this to be a 97-page paper – that the president is calm and I am not going to read it. But, above all, I wanted to tell you that all the investiture sessions are different, all are special, because they mark the projects, the guide of action from which the country wants to head. And this House has experienced 12 different experiences, in very harsh contexts, especially the nine investments that were marked by terrorism, by the direct threat to a part of society and its representatives, and we managed to overcome that threat, precisely because this Parliament never gave up on continuing to do politics, because doing politics served to lift public services, to have the social protection network, to make progress together. Our memory always to those who made it possible, even if life was played for that purpose. Thanks to that commitment, we have always been able to deal with all the economic and social crises of the past 40 years. And now we face another extraordinarily harsh, unprecedented, painful crisis... That is why the Socialists are not going to distract us. Euskadi cannot afford it; we owe it to the more than 1,600 Basques who have died in this health crisis, to health and scientific professionals, to teachers, to hoteliers and merchants, to workers throughout the food chain, in logistics and transport, to those who have lost their jobs or fear doing so, to entrepreneurs, to young people who seek their first chance and to the elderly who fear for their safety. We're going to them and them. When we add up for a common cause, we are much stronger. That's how we got out of the first test the pandemic put on us for two months, and that's how we're going to get it now, to social and economic reconstruction of Euskadi. All that potential we have as a society needs an institutional response to the challenge. That is why we need all the efforts of those who sit here and all those of the next Basque Government to focus on solutions, because what is at stake is that we get out of this and get out together and do it all. This is the reality that has to occupy us in this session, that of a pandemic that none of us here have ever faced before. And that is what has guided us Socialists in the commitments made in the electoral campaign, what has guided us after the elections and what will guide us in this legislature, the commitment we have ratified today, a clear road map for a strong government, with solutions that will leave no one behind. Mrs. Irriart, you have no clear path pages, no means to guarantee a powerful government. You are introduced today to lead the opposition, but that's not today's discussion. Also, look around you, the opposition is very plural. And even if you're united, you don't get the majority. You know we don't have any problems getting along with you guys. But, you know, we're not going to be part of a government to exclude the Basque Republic, independence, or half of our society. Governments that defend plurality, equality, legality, and strong ethical principles are only protected by the Socialists. And, I hope, as head of opposition, you will seek national competition, not to lose time, and share in all the pretty things that are useful to us all. And, Mr. Urkullu, we'll do what Socialist says in the campaign. During these weeks, we've been working hard to answer the public's problems. The agreement you and I have signed marked the way to these answers, and we will protect you from the Socialists in order to form a powerful government, which every citizen looks at, and that no one stays by the roadside. Today, the Socialists are engaged to a shared project to survive Euskakia. And I'm sure we'll succeed. Today you will be elected lehendakari with socialist support in the first vote, without having to wait any longer. This is the first time this has happened in a decade, since the investiture of the lehendakari Patxi López. Today, again, the Socialists dare to take a step forward. Today we think again of citizenship, above and beyond any other consideration, to offer Euskadi a solid government that he can trust. Again, above any other calculation, we are fully committed; we do not want to stick to pointing out with our fingers what needs to be done. We point this out, we say how we think we need to act, and we commit ourselves to solving it. We do so after bringing the greatest stage of his history to Euskadi. Because you will be able to make all the analyses you want about the last legislature, but the honest thing on the part of everyone is to recognize that the bet of meeting the different one to walk together has been decisive to face the crisis that we are living on more solid foundations. What has worked must be preserved. And today, with our vote, we commit ourselves to shielding that stability and plurality at a crucial time for the history of the Basques. This is the certainty we offer the Basques. This is the basis on which we intend to expand the meeting spaces and consensuses. A solid foundation for a strong government, with a marked progressive footprint. That is what is reflected in the governance agreement that the candidate for lehendakari explained this morning. It is not a recomposition of other previous agreements. It's not an update on the previous one. It is a remade agreement from the bottom up, in line with the crisis, and also in line with the added strength that we Socialists bring after the elections, which guarantees a strong government. Because Euskadi does not deserve a weak government that gambles every week with the urgency of citizenship or with the necessary reforms. We have been clear at all times: our seats were not going to be used to play dice every week; they were going to be used to rebuild Euskadi and prepare it for the future. Even from the opposition, we would have been involved in that task, as we have done in the past. But we have shared with the Basque Nationalist Party an integral reflection of the situation. And, after that reflection, the Socialists are engaged in a historical response to a historical moment, which also demands a historical responsibility. We make it clear even during the election campaign: we do not ask for the vote to put up with anyone. We ask for the vote to build a country, from where we belong. And the votes that the citizens have given us to the Socialists today allow the strongest government in the last 22 years. That is why it was not worth cleaning up the outstanding duties of the previous legislature and moving forward; we had to set the clocks for all the institutions, because they all make transcendental decisions for the future: municipalities, parliaments, the Basque Government and the Government of Spain. And this is also a factor that makes this agreement different from four years ago, apart from the health and social emergency that we are experiencing. Because four years ago the Socialists committed to the governance of Euskadi, not only with a party very different from ours, like the Basque Nationalist Party, but also when we both had a very different position with regard to the decisions of the Spanish Government, which was then chaired by Mr Rajoy. Even those differences, as this House is well aware, did not cloud the unity of action of our Government. Because our agreement for Euskadi had well marked the objectives that we Socialists include in terms of progress and equality. And yet, always, also then, we vigorously defend the institutional understanding, who will govern. On this occasion, we have an added advantage: that the two parties that we are going to share Government in Euskadi we endorse the Government of Spain and we defend the path of progress that has been opened up for the whole country. In this sense, the Socialists feel double responsibility, because we are the two governments: that of Spain and that of Euskadi. And we sat on both sides of the table. But not only in these two governments, because we are also part of the municipal authorities, the parliaments and the European Commission. And that is how we believe we can make left-wing policies useful: with the alignment of governments, walking in the same direction. And that is another reason why we are again involved in co-governing Euskadi. An indispensable collaboration, because no one has the perfect and complete recipe, the absolute truth, nor the magic wand with which to get out of it. We don't have any of the people we're here with or anyone out of here. I believe that this is the principle of reality and humility with which all Members of Parliament must come to this rostrum. We have proposals, we have ideas, we have different rhythms to start them up, and we need to look for the necessary support, not just for them to move forward, but for them to be solid, for them to have a reliable journey. In some we will not agree; that we will admit from the beginning, but this is my third commitment here: together with the vote for the candidate for lehendakari Iñigo Urkullu and the shielding of stability, the Socialists will seek to meet with those who want a just exit, to ensure the health of all, to recover employment and the economy, and to leave no one behind. For these objectives, there are no ideas or contributions from anyone, because this agreement that the candidate has explained to lehendakari does not exhaust itself in the walls of Lakua nor in an absolute majority nor in this legislature. This plan is designed for a generation, to act urgently and not to delay what is needed, to ensure the health of all Basque citizens, to reactivate the economy, to recover pre-pandemic levels but adapted to new challenges and needs, not to leave anyone behind in any of the parameters that define a cohesive society as the best country investment. And we have to get it right. We have to focus on getting it right. We must turn to dialogue and agreement; for if we fail, we will be condemning the future. If we are not right to give urgent solutions, if we are not right to focus the necessary reforms, if we are not right to look for all who are here for sincere dialogue, we will have to be accountable. That is why we wanted the first thing to be to lay the foundations for the social and economic reconstruction of Euskadi. Making the right priorities will depend on the progress of all the strategic challenges of this Government. This is the first part of the agreement: a shared plan for the reconstruction of the country as a whole, which requires an effort to guarantee health, to protect incomes, and a collective drive for economic activity. And we make it clear that our government proposal is not to put patches or to let us be dragged away by inertia. We take care of the emergencies and lay the foundations of the great transformations for this new era. Manage the present and prepare the future, as the first lehendakari taught us after the dictatorship, Ramón Rubial. Sin parches, pero sin empezar de Cero, como si no hubiera meh. Tenemos mucho ademantado en este Parlamento, de laboros compartidos por casi todos los locos pollos, y no vamos a hacerón y cupenta nuna. That's why we're going to rebuild our entire public health system, because public system is the only refuge in front of us, the safest way to get us out of trouble. Sociists have been part of every process of modification in Osado, and we're very proud of it. But it's not enough. We've seen the system stitches and we have to respond. And the point is not to think it's enough, not to say it's all a mess, it doesn't have anything to do with it. We must seek a way to prevent the crisis we endured from repeating it again, at least from respect for the dead and the sick. And we turn our eyes to primary care to give it more personnel and to make it the real antenna that detects any new outbreak of epidemics. Because the public system has to ensure the health of the two million Basques at once, but it cannot and must not be prepared for the two million Basques to be at the same time in hospitals. The way to ensure this health of all is to strengthen primary care centers, with stable and well-trained staff, mainly nursing, and to strengthen them with sufficient material resources, to detect any alerts that allow for an adequate referral. But, along with human resources, material means. And to guarantee that material, we need our corporate fabric and the scientific and technological system. And another strategic issue is the full development of the Digital Health Plan, which connects health care to technology within our reach and to artificial intelligence. If we do it right, we can reduce a lot of pressure from the external consultation system and primary care. Telemedicine, telephone consultations and the electronic prescription that we launched ten years ago have been crucial in this crisis. But new technologies open up huge opportunities for us. European funds are an opportunity to link Euskadi to this challenge in health innovation. And it is also time to make Euskadi a complete social and health area, from cooperation, with an integrated strategy that connects all the resources of all the institutions. It is the way to ensure that the most vulnerable – especially the elderly – are not left unattended, that they can maintain their autonomy, that they feel safe, live in a residence or live in their homes. We will review everything that needs to be reviewed, to ensure funding for social services and to improve residential care. And we will boost the cohesion fund linked to research, technology and job creation in care. European resources also now offer us the opportunity to deploy it. We can't miss that chance. To provide health is our first right; but at the same time it is a perfect priority to recover employment and economy. Companies and workers go together: no economic progress without high-quality jobs. The previews are disturbing, and everyday reality is hard on many homes and workshops. That's all true, but we're not going to let Socialists lose jobs and competitiveness. Ours will not be the government that surrenders, we will be brave. And we'll take safe steps because we know what's working. And we ended our engagement to lower our unemployment from 10% to 17%, and we faced the commercial and the pay carnivore. We have to go that way. In the emergency we have been able to bear fruit of a tool of our labor legislation, the ERTE, which has involved a huge effort of the Government of Spain, which we have accompanied from Euskadi, with the supplement to the lower incomes. Many of our companies and their workers continue to need them. And we have to identify well the sectors and businesses that, if they go beyond the pandemic, will continue to be successful projects and will continue to create jobs. We will need the complicity of the Government of Spain, in order for the ERTE to be maintained in such cases. And we are going to do it with the help of the social partners themselves, at the Social Dialogue Bureau, which is another of the great successes and great values that we are going to reinforce. Because there has been one before and one after, in this legislature, the involvement of the social partners in employment programmes. Socialists believe in social dialogue, and we recovered it as an instrument of concertation a decade ago. But, now, that table is a permanent forum for real participation in public policies, to bridge the wage gap, to boost vocational training or improve occupational health. And at that table is where we want to define the great agreement for employment and economic revival, to set the socio-occupational policies that will make us overcome this crisis. It is a clear commitment that we Socialists have made and that we will maintain. We need employers and trade unions, all of them, and we are all going to ask them to sit at that table again. The recovery of employment needs this consultation and looks at the most vulnerable, the unemployed and workers over the age of 45 who need personalized plans, the young people who need a specific plan, the women, the great pagans of the crises, and who have to be firmly engaged in the most skilled jobs. But these employment opportunities will only come if we are able to establish a comprehensive strategy throughout our entire productive system, from all our sectors, industry, but also commercial ones, because trade, hospitality and tourism are more than a source of employment and wealth; they are the ones that give cohesion and life to our cities and peoples. That is why we are committed to intensifying coordination in all departments. A coalition government is not a watertight compartment of each party; it is a country commitment, with a shared vision. So the strategic projects we will define with all ideas and resources, protecting labor rights and the environment, and we will hang them from artificial intelligence, because we already share data in networks and some companies manage them with great commercial efficiency. We want public administrations to take advantage of this data for progress and social protection, to make it easier to work in our public services and also to strengthen social policies, to support projects that generate employment and competitiveness. Because we are immersed in a profound transformation, which the pandemic has only accelerated. But a leap forward in technology and modernization cannot be a leap back in rights. This past legislature has focused on the wage gap that women suffer and the fight against labour fraud, and we are not going to take a step back. It is true that we need a new framework of labour relations, and that framework must come with a broad agreement between social actors and different parties in Congress, in order to recover the lost rights and to regulate the conditions under which the new economy develops. But in the meantime, from here on, we are going to strengthen the labour inspection, to ensure the correct completion of working hours and to pursue fraud. And health for all, quality employment and leaving no one behind. It is our third great axis to build Euskadi. We are going to reform the Income Guarantee Act, to reach out to those who need it; but above all, so that fewer people need it every time, because we have helped her get out of the box and get decent income. We start with the best protection system that exists in Spain. Now, we have to integrate the management of minimum living income, but the objectives of the reform continue to be more intense where there are minors at risk or higher with insufficient pensions, improve the management of procedures and act more ambitiously on activation for employment and social inclusion. Let us put aside wars of magnitude and charitable visions. We are talking about guaranteeing a basic right to sufficient income. Let us not start from scratch, neither in this; let us act at once. And we've got to get the educational forms out of our hands. We need a new law, which has a public school as a axis, which has a vocation to persist, like what Fernando Bues has accomplished 27 years ago, with extensive agreements. It was not easy then to complete the process, and he gave two laws since the beginning of José Ramon Recald. And we know it won't be easy now, but we have to start this job, starting with urgent issues. We don't know yet how pandemes will affect this grade. And in front of this there are two preference: a digital school plan, and a educational support program that strengthens, for students in a special damage condition. We also have a pending challenge, the definitive deployment of the subjective right to housing. We have the most progressive law in Spain, and we are committed to completing it, and we will do more. We will continue with the Gaztelagun Plan, which favours the emancipation of young people, but we will pay attention to the conditions in which our elderly people live, because they need guarantees to develop a full autonomous life. The adaptation of their homes, including alternative ones, needs to be facilitated. But we want to promote formulas of intergenerational coexistence, that there are no ghettos, separate spaces for older people and young people living together in the same buildings and neighborhoods. For this we will need the full cooperation of the municipalities and private initiative. But at the moment, we have a great tool, the Bultzatu 2050 urban agenda. That is the guide to the future for global urban regeneration in terms of sustainability and coexistence. And on the agenda of this Government there will again be a cross-cutting principle to all policies: the full equality of women. It was already in all the proceedings of the previous legislature and, specifically, those of the Social Dialogue Bureau. There we share that a decent and skilled job is another tool for many women to get rid of the burden of dependency. But we have an added reason: the unbearable increase in speeches that question equality, those that feed that half of the population remains second-class citizenship, when not directly exploited and assaulted. This Parliament has spoken unanimously in the past in defence of shared principles, but we have to be proactive agents who fight the discourse of discrimination and protect those who have so many reasons to feel insecure. That is why we have regained the reform of the equality law, which we have been working with the feminist movement in the past parliamentary term. Let's make things easier for women and much more complicated for aggressors. And we hope that in this work we will have the vast majority of this House. And we're gonna make things easy for the future. The ecological transition is the inheritance that we are going to leave all who are here to our children. And it is not just about the environment, because for the Socialists, environmental policies are linked to health, economics and employment. They are also a policy of equality, because those who are left behind will have fewer opportunities. So it's not a plotted policy or something new. We shut down the Girl; we put a stop to the fracking Green Deal And yes, the responsibility we are going to assume is extraordinarily demanding, and we will have fewer resources than expected. But we Socialists are clear that this is not going to be the excuse for the exit from the crisis to be fair. We have to rescue people and we have to support all entrepreneurs and businesses, who, before this crisis, were doing things right and generating jobs. We have several things in favor. Rigorous management in all our institutions, which must order all their available resources in order to avoid inefficiencies. Extraordinary funds from the Government of Spain and the European Union for expenses incurred during the pandemic. A borrowing capacity that must be closed down in a forthcoming Joint Concert Commission. A far-reaching strategic European project, which responds to our challenges and those of our companies, and a margin in the fight against tax fraud. From there, we will talk about taxation as a tool to strengthen public services and to support the job-generating economy. A reflection on the need for fiscal convergence with Europe in terms of more progressive and adaptable to the economy and emerging challenges. So, for the income we need, it will again be necessary to appeal to agreement, collaboration and country sense. We have also for us the commitment of the Spanish Government to the peculiarity of Euskade, and to the entire development of the State. We've been part of the Socialists on every landmark that made our autogonization possible. And we're confirming that commitment to my happy action. At this point, we agree with the Jeltista Party, and, as always, we have acted with responsibilities to strengthen an extensive arrangement for life by the United States of Guernica. We do not agree in the manner in which this agreement should be renewed; it is known, and therefore, because we disagree, it is not in the consent of government. The government cannot spend a week's time in this dispute; the union must be sought by the groups of this legislature. So, as this matter remains outside the government, I will reiterate the socialist position: if we renew that pact, let it be so that we can have more. If we make a new Statute, as all the other autonomous communities have done, that is to improve the life of citizens and strengthen social cohesion. If we want that to be useful, it has to be viable, it has to respect the legal order; that is the meaning of self-government: a pact of coexistence that guarantees a modern, plural, cohesive and equal society. A pact in a diverse Spain and in a project of cooperation with the other autonomous communities and with Europe. And it is that full coexistence is still one of our outstanding tasks. I have cited many of the challenges we face as a society; most of us share them with all societies in our environment, but the Basques have a differential challenge: that we all, without exception, assume that terrorism was profoundly unfair, that killing, kidnapping, extortion, threatening, persecuting or torture is in the present, but it was also in the past, a horror and a mistake that should never have occurred. The Basque Government, of which we are going to participate, is founded on this unrelenting ethical principle: the comprehensive defence of human rights and the critical vision of any violations that have occurred in the past or that occur in the present. That there has never been a political or State reason that can deprive human dignity, the right to life or physical or mental integrity. And that all victims deserve memory, justice and reparation. We have many debts with the victims; as plural as is Basque society itself. We are indebted to the truth of everything that has happened, to the outstanding cases, to the reparation of all of them. We know that well, especially some in this House, we Socialists too are victims, but we are never going to be proud of their representation, and that is what we also ask of the rest of the groups: each victim has his own voice and has the right to be heard. Our political responsibility is to act so that there is not a crevice for which there is only one justification for the damage caused. We know that wounds that don't close well never heal. Today we still see the contempt with which those who suffered unjustly from repression, imprisonment and slavery during the dictatorship are treated. It is also necessary to recognize and repair these victims; we have made this commitment to them in the past legislature, and this Government will present before this House a Basque law of historical memory, a law that restores to them the dignity that they wanted to steal from them in the past and that some are committed to stealing from them in the present. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we must definitely end the policy of the trenches. I, in this House, see no enemies; I see political rivals, I see people who represent different ideas and put forward different projects. And there are ideas and projects that the Socialists will never share. Every sectarianism, every exclusive intention, everything that divides, will be out of our agenda. But I also know that we can find ourselves in many things, beyond those we share Government, and I am also convinced that we need it. But my enemies, the enemies of the Socialists, are sickness, unemployment, inequality and sectarianism; that is what we are going to fight. And this Parliament, like all the previous ones, is nothing more than a reflection of plurality, of which it has been so hard for us to assert, and we must have the capacity to manage that plurality; we are going to do it in a plural government for a plural Euskadi. That is the way to govern for all, to make politics for all, for those who vote for one and for those who vote for others; that is why I call for sincere agreement for all. We are going to have an absolute majority government, yes, but there is not going to be a "rodillo", and no one is going to look for that excuse, except those who in the last legislature, before a minority government, did not know how to influence any of their policies. And by the time you wanted to react, the electoral calendar marked all the rhythms of this House. We now have a clear electoral horizon; there is no election appointment in the next three years. I invite all groups in this House to take advantage of this time. It is not time to compete; it is time to collaborate. Today we have been presented with an open proposal but with a clear objective: the social and economic reconstruction of Euskadi, from criteria of progress, equality, social justice and plurality. That is why we want to be responsible for the Basque Socialists, and that is why we are going to be part of a government that has more than an absolute majority, has a hand stretched out to build a better Euskadi. The pandemic is making us suffer a lot. There is still no vaccine to tackle it, but we do have a vaccine to guarantee health, recover the economy and employment, and leave no one behind, and that vaccine is the uppercase policy, the best remedy for the social rescue and reconstruction of this country. Therefore, I invite you to make this legislature a useful one, because Basque citizenship will be closely observed to us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is yours whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u18	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, guests to-day, good afternoon to all. I'm going to start talking to the Mountain because today, looking at us, Araba is looking at the politicians, the gym and a lot of local population. He put questions, worries, doubts, doubts, never like this pandemia on the table. It's not a new question, it's all the questions we've been asking, all the questions that we've been through and conditioned by our lives, maybe more crudely now, faster, but those that were already there. In fact, he taught me that the Forest is political and that it's a member of the House and a friend of the House, and they're extremely political before this crisis, and perhaps the lives we've lived in the pandemae and the lives we've lived in. My father, my grandmother, in a home, alone with my grandfather, without the protection of the closest men, the lives of the working people who watch them die, the most professional health that has been found to protect themselves from plastic bags, the lives of the citizens who have gone out to clap their hands on the balconies, the first staff of the Costal Workers, the life of the researchers in the Basque Country University, the life of our children's teachers. La vivencia de milles de laborors y labororos temporas que de la noche a la mañana, se encontrado sin laboro y specranza. "La de personas autónomas que se vieron obligadas a depender de una página web que colgaba en el primer minuto paracibi una ayuda imprescindible para seguir adelante." Las vincias de todas aquaellas personas que, de un un para otro, se encontraron en un ERTE y there visgada su ementicías. La de la las mujeres precaria, las empleadas del hogar, muchas de las cuales se there visto en la calle. "Y la de los más jóvenes, que non visto nuvemeente en el paro." Or the lives of the emigrants these months. The experiences of children with backpacks that have remained without visitors, of those who have spent months without seeing their parents, of relatives and friends, and of the pandemia in the dungeons. And that of our parents who have only come back to school during these days. All political experiences, very political. I thought it important that all these experiences should take a little time today, if they don't understand the complex vitalism of this town, we can't find the answers. We're living an emotional chaos. As I said, pandemies have accelerated all those crisis that ran through our lives. And experience... I'm sorry. Now, in the presence of all these questions, and between these experiences, the question is one question: Now what? And behind that question, we have more challenges than we really thought. There are many who ask themselves that question. That question shows no direction. In short, it may be said that they are a sign of the fragile project of life and the lack of use in life. And that is not a small thing, but a great deal of it, which is defined in the experience of life and those projects by public policy and the means which are directed to them. Horregatik jendea gaur guri adi-adi begira dago, were a ball, secured a ball and a daytime ball. Never have so many people been unable to predict their future, to be able to profile it with some clarity, and therefore need to receive firm and clear answers from the institutions. They need certainties of the new Government that will conform. And very careful, because in the absence of clear answers, in the absence of these certainties, the discourse of neofascist hatred is opened. It is therefore time to give answers, and, as we have seen today, there are at the present moment two examples, face to face: The one that Mr. Urkullu represents, and the other that is represented by Idera's Orchiña. You, Mr. Urkullu, the model you represent, which offers to this people, in short, for the last eight years, is given by a word that you have heard and learned: duration In any case, since you've come here to ask for confidence in this camera, I think it's a good time to balance your behavior. It's important to remember that you've been president of this part of this town for the last eight years. "Lo digo porque parce que aqui se quiere installr la quiere que todo iba bien begina que llegó la COVID-19, que teníamos un Gobierno strong que stabba cumplicendo sus compromis." And today you've tried it, too, because we were supposed to be a society that was getting the size of the situation, but COVID has arrived, and from that point on... The doctrine of parenthesis is to be established: all this will be hard, it will be long, but all will pass away and we will be as before; as if that before was idyllic. And, I, in recent times, Mr Urkullu, have learned that any past time was earlier, but nothing more than that. And if I've studied something in this legislature for the last few years, Mr. Urkullu, it's one thing and another reality. And that's why, as I said, I think it's right to balance your practice. It was about 10% of our unemployment before pandemia. Things were so well, together with Greece and Spain and Italy, that ours was one of the highest unemployment in Europe. A data entirely anomaous for a people with a level of our wealth. And you've spent more time trying to convince him that the rate of unemployment was good rather than correct. A four-year-old in partial employment, one-third at job performances and over 90% of the contracts. Your assessment, Mr Urkullu, is that of a government with no ambition in terms of employment, which relativizes and shows no willingness to put an end to job insecurity. Stable wages until labor conflict starts slight improvements. A government systematically aligned with the employer in all labour disputes. Mr Urkullu, you have come to exercise practically as a spokesman of the Patronal in conflicts such as that of metal in Bizkaia. Meanwhile, the industry has stagnated. 60,000 industrial jobs less than in 2008, and the sector's share of GDP stagnated since 2010. This is directly linked to R & D deficits, below 2% of gross domestic product, so close to Spain and increasingly far from Europe. Falling from division in the European Innovation League; we are already in third division. The lack of perspective, planning and leadership leads us to be the oldest society in Europe, after Italy, with all that this implies. Where was, Mr Urkullu, the great pact for the family and the paradigm shift that was to accompany him? We are face to face with a whole generation of youths who have never known anything but presence. Ours is one of the high-minded opportunities in Europe, Mr. Urkullu. The rate of unemployment of our young people doubles Europe, and more than 12% of our younger ones won't think she'll be happier than her parents. And conflicts that come one after another in education. An apparent difficulty and incommunication to work for the educational unit, a bad result in the PlISAn, a failure as to the euphoration of the students, unable to reconcile itself to the return of a new educational law and necessary. You agreed to this law with the Popular Party, Mr. Urkullu, and now you must have this agreement somewhere, according to what you said to us today. The appearance of COVID-19 has already been wounded, overcome, stressed, and overcharged the health system. We have lived in the pandemonies of years, political education, and the effects of planning and foresight. You have become a rule of managing to deny problems, but you are also president of 2016-2010 EPE, Mr. Urkullu. A residual and decreasing housing policy that leaves us rents untied in historical peaks and inaccessible access to purchase for increasingly broad sectors of society. Housing is the main factor of exclusion in this Autonomous Community, Mr Urkullu. You mentioned the Sustainable Development Goals. You made a commitment to be among the top five countries, among the top five. We were the eighth when you were invested lehendakari, and now we occupy the fifteenth place. And that you told us today that ours is a model of sustainable, consolidated development... And poverty is rising to ours. Since the series are examined, Mr. Urkullu, there have never been so many people in our town in poverty. Poverty data up, social differences up, and you haven't fulfilled your commitment to poverty. But above all, a data which is extremely disturbing by looking at the future: Before the pandemia, in this country, there lived about 3400,000 people on the border limit, in total uncertainty, without mattresses. And Caritas warned us that unless things didn't go wrong, they'd be the first to fall. And look at the situation we're in right now. And your government, whose incomes were so necessary to ensure the guarantees of the vast consensus that could be born behind rent reform. More than ten years after the adoption of the Social Services Act, there is no progress, Mr Urkullu, with regard to the public social services system. The pandemic has highlighted all the shortcomings of the system. You have shown no willingness to take the lead in a new institutionalization that responds to the care needs of our society. And, in the face of the greatest crisis experienced by social services, their contribution has been to abdicate in their functions. Ours is one of the largest genera in Europe, Mr. Urkullu. All the details of poverty are clearly worse in women's affairs, and now we live worse than eight years in this Middle Ages. And a check: word, if it's not yours, it's a feminist government. And if your government doesn't have anything, it's a feminist practice. And he doesn't work with feminist movements. As for language politics, I'd say more than 300 journalists have enough bulletin to ask for a phonekong in the past few days. And as far as the transition of climate and energy is concerned, your balance is sad. The use of the reviews was 8% when they arrived at the presidency. It's still there today, one decade lost. And in the case of the fluids which change climates, the same is true. Your career does not allow you, Mr. Urkullu, to make the terrible changes you have to make during the period necessary. And the Horsebar. At the foot of the stables, accompanied by Joaquín and Alberto, with a heap of garbage, a chain of management fell. You didn't, you didn't get the subject properly. It's not just a mistake in check, it's not too late to react, it's not just the cause of the first few days, it's not a terrible matter of information, it's not just because no political responsibility has been cleaned up yet, it's not just that you want to melt your own responsibility into private activities, and it's not just a distant, cold, and empathy attitude you've shown. Of course, it's all very serious. But the entire management model has failed. The government of the settlements is yours, but in this law you engaged 29 laws: ten were left uncontroverted; eleven were left in the tramites, and only eight were admitted. And we can talk about the management of the pandema. And I am going to give you a hint of pearls, because there has been a lot of talk today: Urkullu decrees the health emergency on Friday 13 March, asks us to read carefully what it proposes to us; it does not activate any of the measures envisaged in it. He has decreed the closure of the hotel shop, and he had already been advanced to shops, hotels, cider shops... Urkullu claims to rule out confinement. Pedro Sánchez declares it two days later. According to the Basque Nationalist Party, a table of parties and social agents, such as the one called for by Euskal Herria Bildu, was a "parliamentary forum", which does not exist anywhere and would paralyze decision-making. The masks weren't necessary, according to Murga. If Pedro Sánchez wore them, it would be because he had coronavirus. Look at each other today! I'm gonna jarra genezake, jarra genezake... Because we could also talk about the setting and the opening of the Muga de Cantabria. There have been passages that sound like a bufa opera, but there is no place to frivolize in these cases. If the Basque Autonomous Community were an independent State, we would be the third country in the world in the ranking. It is not the assessment of the management that Euskal Herria Bildu makes. All health unions, all education unions, have been told this. The families of the persons cared for in the centres of the elderly have told us so. Today, a newspaper picks up the words of a director of a centre, who addresses her students' relatives telling them that they have left them alone. It is hard to understand the tenet, paralysia, reactional and lack of managing for the denial of this government. The squire was the first warning, seeing him in perspective; it was only the apéritif of what he had come. Now the chaos is taking us back to school. Today, at the beginning of your conference, you had to take some time to explain to me about the school return. How long, Mr. Urkullu? Today, the education unions have announced a strike call. That's your communication and your collaboration. A serious government must, therefore, face the situation; let us speak, ask, dispute, make decisions, and take clear, precise, and consistent measures to make decisions. And we're not going to falsify, we're conscious that time is not easy for the government; but in the planning works there have been so many mistakes that it's hard to trust Mr. Urkullu in your project, so as to reach the complex challenges we'll have in the short future. And you've talked a lot about the type of government, you've discussed so many things from a collaborating model, I don't know how many times you've talked about it, and you've almost prepared it this morning. And what an opportunity have you lost in pandemia to apply to practice that word which has taken so much place in your rhetoric. How far away is it, Mr. Urkullu, from your words? How far away you've been from the neighbourhood! You were telling us about realism, Mr. Urkullu. Well, it is unrealistic to say that your model – neither in the management of this pandemic nor in the previous one – has been collaborative. Mr Urkullu, reporting is not participation, it is not sharing, it is not collaborating; it is not auzolan He also mentioned the search for scapegoats, which did not seek scapegoats. Man, ba, Gobernu ha txapelduna da ardurak sheathik astintzen: Zaldibar undertaking beat orange pribatu bat da, skolara zentroena buelta, kutsatzeen gorakada herritarena. Begi-bistakoa da, Urkullu jauna, zurre balantzea bear urrun dago elikatu nahi den errelatotik. Yours, Mr Urkullu, is a government that has failed in times of crisis, that has not taken advantage of the wind in favour and has failed in times of bonanza, and that, of course, has failed in the management of this pandemic. Neither a sustainable human development model nor a functioning model nor a collaborative governance model. That's the principle of reality. A little bit of a balance today to ask for protection from the president, Mr. Urkullu. And, today, we have known your government agreement. We met him today. Such a firm agreement that you were afraid it could be broken in 48 hours, and you wanted to keep it zealously. An agreement that is very much like the amendments that the groups that support the government usually put before us, to continue doing what they always do... With renewed terminology, but to keep doing the usual thing. Well, the usual, except that which they have not fulfilled; for that they have erased from the agreements. To update Terminology, I will confess that you are a master, that these words are words, but that these concepts must be carried to political practice. And you've been the president of this country for the last eight years, and you've been here for those eight years to-day, you and Mrs. Mountain, to count so many and so many things as you've proposed to us, or at least to settle in that direction. And you didn't. To-day he took my attention: You have proposed a compact, a pact, about the rationalization of the hours. And I remembered how we suggested it in the monographics of families, brought a proposition about it, rationalizing the hours, and you voted against it. You propose to us that we can get new things or new ends, but with a flag of continuity. And sometimes that's incompatible. For instance, the care of the planet is one of the axes of this government program, as you say. And for this purpose, you say that it is necessary to give priority to the climate alarm and to the neurontic transition, that the Edimate should be in these matters. But it's not possible to do that with the pretty ones you've been pushing so far. You, Mr. Urkullu, have marked the challenge of social protection as one of the priorities. But for that purpose, you'll have a rent propose to support the incomes he didn't have. Just the same... knowing that to strengthen the instrument that can be so important in these times, this proposition breaks all the consensus necessary to legitimize, and that it is a very narrower proposition, when all the other governments in the world are exercising on its own protection. And when we speak of protection, that we have marked what has happened in the intestines of the old people of this country, that your proposal is to update a decree, and to propose the service of the duration of the duration of the last decade. And principle of reality, rigor... You have not told us a word about how you intend to finance all this from what you have told us: neither has any thought about taxation, nor has you wished to share with us any of the projects that you have already presented to Mr Sánchez for the collection of European funds. Yes, a little pearl, I liked it very much, and you know what Mr. Subazata liked, didn't you? You said that Europe has discovered that we should be indebted. I hope you realize, even here, that you need to suffer, Mr. Subaz. It's so vague, so gray, so conservative, it's so old before it's born, it's so far from the public leader that this town needs... And speaking of credibility, there is also a proposition in your association of government. The funny thing is, when you first introduced him, you stretched out your hand and, on the other hand, you already hid the deal. The time of extensive agreements is at these days, and at present there is such a thing in this legislature. That beautiful story of what we're all going on in the same corridor. You said that all the organizations should go to work together, Mr. Urkullu, and that's one of the first commissions you've ever done to your government. But it's shocking to us, it's just that we've left the Basque People out of the way. And just to stay out of the way when we're a great Munial force. We are sceptics before this offer, and we say clearly that your actions and your words do not agree. It's hard to think about your vows... and now, when we are in the presence of an absolute majority, that will is to say, when we are in the presence of an absolute majority. And bargains have been made, and important things have been made in this parliament. I've already mentioned the family dwarf, we've got plenty of settlements. Some of you, especially of you, were labored in middle-class, and important agreements, but many of them failed. In this House there are examples of broad and very important agreements, for example the Energy Sustainability Act, a very broad agreement on the creation of a fund. Was it created? Well, neither. Public people are publicly offered to cooperate in this pandemy. We've even extended specific suggestions to you. We've asked you to activate the intersectoral table, and we've asked you to activate the intelligence of this town over and over again. Vagues, despisers. Our scepticism, Mr Urkullu, with regard to what it offers us, is based on the principle of realism and credibility. And now you invite us to work together, and without doubt we shall be the ones who will hinder us from the agreements that are good for the people and for the improvement of the lives of the people. But let us be clear and honest in return of the agreement, and let us discuss the terms of these agreements, for there is a difficulty in the contents of the agreement. The deals are instruments, but the key is in the contents. We must draw all together from this; we must row all together, yes, but change our course. The point is, we've learned something from all this. You said today, too, we'll get out of this. It'll cost us a lot, it'll be hard, but we'll get out of here. It's just how we're gonna get out of this thing in 2008. But we left a lot of people behind, our vitals installed, reduced in our lives, weakened by our public services, abandoned by the vigilance of women, increased by the danger of poverty, spread by the cracks of our society, destroyed by the planet... .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's why we think it's urgent to change our course, and that's what we have to look for. He also asked us for responsibility and constructive criticism. Our proactive and constructive attitude has been demonstrated, Thursday after Thursday, in this Parliament and outside it, and also during the pandemic. In any case, make it clear that Euskal Herria Bildu is not going to give up one of the main functions assigned to the opposition in a healthy democracy, which is the control of government action. It is not about eroding the Government or generating blocs; it is about each one playing his or her role responsibly. And if it's up to us to be in the opposition, we'll do our job; don't hesitate. We will act with a high eye, with responsibility and loyalty, with loyalty to our people. All responsibility, but blank checks none. In any case, if the will to your agreements is real, make it reset. The consequence is, that this government has no claim to the principle of realism in regard to auto-generacy, when it has been more manifest than ever to guard and protect our members, so as to be able to raise its head, to build that society with strong foundations, with its hands tied together. The decision of property is to decide which and how to take decisions. And more than ever we have seen in this pandemy that the principal decisions have been taken far away from us. And you can be angry, Mr. Urkullu, from 1 to 10, as you told us before, but we had to listen to the occurrences of Mr. Sánchez on Saturdays during the pandemia, because they absolutely conditioned our life. Principio derealidad! And reality is that this government has no project around us, for instance, so that we can decide. We're here to decide about the ERTE. We're here to decide the minimum wage. We're here to decide about our pensions. Or, for example, to determine in this school-transcendation about those necessary watch-upon permits. Or to get out of this crisis and determine our degree of debt. Or about the European funds. There is no project in this government for us to support the tools necessary for that purpose. This is the story of a national resignation. You don't comply, Mr. Urkullu. He's got two legislatures in his bag promising consultations that don't materialize. It's raining on wet. The past legislature we attended a manoeuvre of the Basque Nationalist Party, which clears up all doubts about the commitment to the right to decide, where the Basque Nationalist Party wrote a bochronose page, the page of national resignation, the renunciation of a new status for the Basque Autonomous Community. His party has decided to give the key to deciding the limits of self-government to the Socialist Party of Euskadi, giving it the right to veto. Principle of reality! We were already pointing this out in campaign: we are witnessing the formation of a containment government. The Basque Socialist Party contains the Basque Nationalist Party in the face of sovereignist progress, and the Basque Nationalist Party contains the Socialist Party in making progressive policies. In fine, what you offer to us is a grey Government without strength, without ambition, born in its new age, without national projects, no projects to protect and protect our members, no projects to guard the planet, no projects to take over the train of advanced nations, and no public leaders required by the romances we look forward to. I swear to you, you're worth a herria. We need a new Government, a new way of doing politics and a new governance and new policies to respond to the situations we are experiencing and the complex challenges we face. You can't do that, Mr. Urkullu. We know his model of governance, his way of doing politics, and he has neither the vision nor the ambition to take the political leadership that is required to implement the policies that this part of the country requires. It's a matter of credibility. This can only be done by Euskal Herria Bildu; this can only be done by the project represented by Maddalen Iriarte Okiñena. This town is the leader of the Maddalen Irina to take it on its back and set it up in a new direction. A project to transport this people as far as we please, subanist, left-handed, socially advanced, feminist, cosminist and euvocacy, which puts life in the centre, which has the inspiration to separate the prosperity among all the citizens, and who believe in our common force, who will lead it to the first political line of care, to guard the planet, to which this people will not place the boundary of the planet, and to place a firm wager for life, which makes this demercised policy, and this light for the happiness, which the people wish to provide, and which they trust. I mentioned Maddalen Iriating with Angela Davis, and I also mentioned her to finish my speech, because "we are not here to accept what we cannot change, but to change the things we cannot accept." Eta gu ez gara konformatzeko jaioak. Herri hau nahi bezain urruti wasateko prest gaude, age, gaur, numeralkoki possible ez baldin bada ere, herri honetan aldaketa hassia da. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Euneraries, Monsieur Egibar, are yours whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u20	Good afternoon, everyone. Well, it's the day of the inquest. From the first days of February, we had the announcement of April 5, then the 12th of July; It's been a long time... Here, in between, we've had some sessions to continue around the COVID, but it's been a long time, and then there were prior priorities, for instance, transition from the word, technological, neurotic, climate change, demographic challenge, update... he has followed these ends in the course of time, but he has certainly anticipated them, and is, after the pandemia, that the wager for public services, which was already made, but which we now assert, I should say, all the parlamentary groups. And at the same time, take the person as the axis, i.e. as the axis of all rights, the axis, the social, economic, political, and the rest. But it is true, in political matters, that this accursed virus, which cannot be seen, has put each politically in his place. We'll see where the head used to be and how, right? Why it is evident that elections have been made, and that the people have spoken. People, people... People you talk about so much. And the people have spoken, and the majority of the people present themselves before the President of Maddalen. People... These are not presidious elections, we know, but you know as well as I do that the majority of this people have chosen a candidate. You know, bossy, difference, too. And we've decided that the Basque Men are presidential, and not you. Has this been decided by the people or not? "Principio de realidad," "No, Mine?" Yes, "principio de realidad." Why, "a ver," the patriotic left man has always had a problem to understand this town and to understand this town. He prefers to build in his imagination a people which he would like to build, in his imagination, and then to bring the people back at his pleasure. And in the imagination a popular scheme, and then, according to this scheme, the people were brought to it. And that's what it's like to bump into reality. Why this people are stubborn, but reality is more stubborn than the people. And people have their own criteria in this country. The town is grown up, our country is ripe. And the people have not chosen you, Madam Irarte; He has not chosen you; He has chosen Mr. Urkullu. EAJ-PNV always heard the town. They didn't try to change the town. Listen to me and answer me. Hear the people, and answer the ears of the people. There's a remarkable difference between your project and our project. This people, in this imagination of yours, the people that you seek to bring to your service, said that Urcullu is the best candidate for president. But, well, you'll keep your old ones. And there's been elections, vetaja's been 10 parlamentarians, and then you said, "Yes, but the change's coming." I think it's the only one you want to change, change, change, and talk about changes, that's the only thing you want to change, I think it's the only one you want to take away PNV from his place. There is no other motive, there is no other motive, I can't see it. Why, in eight years, 21; now four years, 18, and again 21 parlamentary. PNV is now eight years old, 27 years old, and in four years 28, and today 31. So that's the difference. But that's not the only thing. What about the ability to make deals? Why didn't your candidate get one vote for the candidate? Why? Answer... The Princess of Hatred passed through the whole campaign, and in the last minute her thoughts were offered to this point. But why don't you get a single vote? I can see why it is: Because you want to make an opposition, but not antagonizing opposition, what others want to do, just as you have shown in the campaign, the destroyer. That's the opposition you want to do, and you can tell. You can see it from a distance! Why here comes another theory, where it's said, well, there's... Well, they say it a lot, don't they? , your leaders: "Es que el PNV narcocizia la sociedad." "Narcotizia la sociedad, y despues vota pues lo que vota." Pero la tesis de la vanguaarda, isn't it? What does the vanguard say? For some are created to command them, and others to obey us. But you seem to think, in your imagination, that you are created to command, and that others ought to obey. And that's not how it happened. Why do you put it like the motto of your campaign "The people you deserve"? "The people you deserve." You don't say, "Your government," O President, "You are a gentleman." No, it's the country you're talking about. Instead of respecting the minds of the people, you must bring the people to your thoughts. That's the thesis. It doesn't make sense to say "the country where you live." No, no, you deserve it, president, political party. No, it's the country you're talking about. Why then do you say: "Imagina volver a empezar. Un país en marcha." "Digo volve a empezar," "de qué viaje hemos venido o quién se ha incorporado a qué?" What journey have we lost or what world did you come from? It is what the people have decided: One must deal with questions, two with one another, and deal with one another in the hands of the other. Respecting the rights of the person, all rights. And public services, health, education, security, and above all this, are the necessary platforms for which it is necessary to do so, because it has the same preponderance in the arts of guarding and in the cultivation of health. Companion is necessary for the political and social construction of the Basques more than ever; cooperation is indispensable. We must find patterns of political and social construction for each other all of us. And for that, the pursuits and diversion strategys must be over, why you've done a very dirty campaign, and also I've mentioned the first strategy, the destructive, the harassing, the harassing, and the fall-off strategy. If that's your political contribution for the next few years, we're not doing well, we're not doing well. The patriot on the left has not favored any form of government. You will know why, but it may be inferred that when you have received so many offers, it is because of something. And the strategy is clear, you have to take a political time with us, but it would be a strategy of yours, a political initiative, what's in the government, what's in the government, how to get rid of it, whether it's "a ver" in the next few years. But what's going on is what's going on. With or without you, this town will continue. Without you, it's harder, but it's not impossible. Witness for the last decade. But without you or you, we'll move on. When we say that partnership is more important than once, it is not a caprice; it is not a weakness. We now acquire absolute majority, the whole majority. And there are also other parliamentary groups in this legislature, where there are other political expressions, and we have a living society. And society, politics, institutions... one amongst all, to keep one's self within the bounds of it, is to set it to work as a common share of the people in this country. It is absolutely necessary, absolutely necessary, even respecting opinions and programs. But you don't want a deal, you don't want PNV. I don't know why. Well, I know why you want to represent PNV, of course. But it is possible: for instance, the Social Party, you have it here, don't you? Navarroan, you can make deals with Chivite. And the agreements which had been offered here at the lower size of the taxations were qualititatively and qualiatively in budgets and taxations. There it is possible "abstención de coaboracion." Even in Madrid, it's possible with Sánchez, for some reason, obviously. And not with PNV, it is not possible that this autonomous community, in the Bascombands, should be made to agree, knowing that we are the first force and the second force. It's a pity, why... then, in the description of my Kortha's, my question is: Is something okay? Is something right? Why, too, did Mrs. Hatsy say, well, in front of the local crisis, members, nurses, shopkeepers, everyone has done it, cheering them, but not political officials. And political officials too. There are all colours in our countries and in our institutions. I think we've all worked together and we'll have to do it again. Why Osaides has very good professionals, and thanks to them, and thanks to them, even though they're in the saucys. But the fault is the most political surfer. I think that, apart from being unjust, it's very imperfect, why, from years of work, Osarism has an enormous strength, an enormous strength... And he who is strong has the ability to answer and the ability to challenge new challenges. The weak will not challenge the new challenges, the challenges of these sizes, the challenges of which will not be resisted. Therefore I think that we must put each one in his place, but let us leave that thesis "one and the worse." We can't leave the PNV out of the hands of the votes, see if the "a ver" is the same with him. That's not going to happen. It's not happening. And if you've got a problem with PNV, you've got a problem for years, why PNV becomes stronger and stronger. I think it's best if we get together and talk. Hemen eduki genituen pandemiaren inguruko debateetan, nik aipatu nizuen, zergatik hau zuen syndikatu lagoon from... Eta, jakina, political-sindikala strategy martxan dago, abian dago. That's exactly the first day of Mayatzaren. Eta aldez aurretik urtarrilareen 30ean "huelga" de tu zenuten Herri honetan. Jendeari ahaztu Egypt, bathe "huelga orokorra" oftu zenuten. Eta esaten duzue, konfinamendua tarteko, zergatik orduan ekonomia berraktibatzea erokeria bat zen, erokeria bat zen... Gero haurrak eskolatzea beasts astakeria bat zen, dena atzeratu, atzeratu, atzeratu... Eta kontestu hartan isaten da: "This model of confinement – this isaten da – has been designed according to the interests of capital and large companies"... And, as you quote here to capital and big companies, I don't know if there's any shareholders here, so let's know... "People and health are not at the centre of the decisions being made. This has led us to a hard confinement. Capital is preparing for the next phase. We are going to dispute power to capital on all fronts, in companies, on the street, and we are going to do so in institutions as well." Then we are the capital in power, in case you didn't know, and come, you come, to dispute power in the institutions; then if it covers any doubt, doubt cleared. It is simply a power struggle; that is the approach being taken. Who thinks and operates on these keys I don't know in which world or in which part of planet Earth lives, but combine these approaches and positions with this soft disposition to understanding and we will talk, no, no, no, they are not compatible; the approaches that are being made of collaboration are simple lures, because in the background beats the other strategy: to use, as has been used, the health alarm, misfortune or calamity also in Zaldibar, for that reason the old romantics, who still have some communist, say that it serves to create the objective and subjective conditions that allow not to create revolution or reach revolutionary triumph, but to banish or remove the opponent. These are the thoughts that are nesting, because delaying post-containment economic activation, longing for situations of social explosion, only obeys those criteria, and that these criteria, which are still contained in some manuals, fortunately, are expired and prescribed, but there are people in the political directions who think in this way in your field. the labour of the Basque society, and the labour of the Basque People, is common to all. We shared this in common in a previous session. It's nobody's exclusive, it's everybody's. And here are two bolts: one, the effort, because it belongs to all, and the second, looking to the future, to raise personal discipline and discipline of the people, to get them all out of it. Why? Because we must overcome the health anguish of health among all, and to advance from the economic crisis is necessary for everyone's work. Everyone owns his own, I mine, and ours between us all. But we all belong to each other. That's our philosophy. And there may be various ways of understanding in the improvement of the people, but before similar events, that is to say, when something happens that harms the whole people or the whole community, and the subject of the pandemia is not only serious, but has been wonderfully impassed in our lives, in our economy, but has shaken the same planet as "s que." A damn virus we can't see has shaken the whole planet. And if we cannot unite to it, why should we require a project to be performed in common? What you have to do first is when the problem is to deal with it. How? One by one, taking measures. And then the cares will come to light, And the cares will be made white. That didn't happen in this town. In the beginning of health I have mentioned the strength of the system, why the eucalyptic system has been able to answer at the most difficult moments. And because the wager for public services has been constant since the process of eupska organization has been set up, madam, the hatredary. Membership has been completed for years. And the basic rent, you said, that was popular, shared... No, no, well, even then it was thoughts, but they started. Look at the cost of Mr. Iglesia with your party running his IMVa. Look at 7500,000 file transfers, and only 4000 has been transmitted, 0.5%. There he is. And you will claim fatherhood. Well, here's the basic rent that started twenty-four years ago. Then it's not only the P.N.V. triumph, because it was shared, even at that very beginning. But some political parties were engaged in the work. Others didn't come in person. If, therefore, we wish to secure public services in health, sociantary, why, if we wish to examine the data mentioned, and the dwellings of the elder, let us examine it, concrete, and old, but the data and, unfortunately, the dead are everywhere.... but compared with other countries, including Europe, our rates are much better. Unfortunately, because they are dead, but in that case don't lie to me, please. As a matter of fact, why the treatment and the consequences, the results... for they are better. It's said: "Economies must recover." You don't mention it, even if it's complicated, the industry. Industrial, industrial bet is not mentioned. It shows up like an I+G+b apostastual, A ver, if we want to make a fair system here, why do the Northern nations talk about it later, if we want to make a fair system, how does wealth arise? One simple question: how does wealth arise? The public sector? Have you seen the rich rise from the public sector? The Nordic countries are exaggerated. Do we know the whole system? Why shouldn't we take a little bit of it, if I were to look into those countries, what coarse flexity they have, we'd throw our hands over our heads. Or if we look at other parts: The prosecution does not mortify competitiveness, it does not aggravate it, it promotes it. The prosecutorship... And ye say: "This is not fair." And we go to right or indirect composition, no matter what, and we shall see how PSOE and Podemos decide in Madrid; 25% of the taxpayers collect money at 75% and vice versa. If there is equity and social justice, there is progress. We'll see what size it will take after discussion between Madrid and progressing. I bet the VAT changes, just unfair. And where does it divide? And how do you divide money? So, the prosecutorship... it does not excite competition, the competitiveness, the condition, or the sorrow of those countries. On the contrary, it stimules him. And then it's the result: "What is each of us in the pocket of the rent each one of us, or of each one of us who lives there?" Which side is it? What difference does it make? Let us not look at it, but let us not venture to say that I shall take a part of it, bring it in, and leave the rest of the conditions unchanged; why, as a whole, it is to be examined, if we only take a piece of it, we think of it, and the example is of no use. When this is said to be the industrial sector, and then I+G+b has been mentioned, I think there's one of the slates here, why is it related to the education? The future is placed in the eyes of the economy by the advanced nations; if the triangle be taken, there are three concepts at each point, three concepts, three ways, three values, three ends; the one is competitive, the second co-worker, and the third solidness. The competition strengthens the economy, spurs it; it is necessary for competition. Collaboration strengthens the system, the people and the society. And solidarity unites society. And it's in the conjugation of the three of them to integrate strategy into a popular project. And with the goals of permanent development, it is clear that it is the best strategy to collect jobs, health, education, and social politics. Mrs. Hatsies used to say... At least I've discovered a plan for agreement. I don't know if it's the size we've had in the last part of the Podemos law together, it could be the size we've had in the last part of the law before the Podemos that we've been able to discuss, or, in case, the budget or the laws or the different proposals, but you've left that opportunity open. You've done a lot of criticism, but, I think, by time and by contact, if you're going to make an opposition that's going to be the builder, together as Podemos, the Eubertists, and even the Social Party, we'll enjoy seeing them, we'll explore them. Oh, yeah, yeah, sure. So we stop with this disposition. The popular party has also mentioned a number of subjects which might be able to interfere with the agreement. Some of you said, well, they'll have conditions. That there can be no such thing as agreement or agreement, or whatever it may be. Well, at least I saw you left a door open. In front of the strategic plans and the industry and the job have to be explained. There's more to it than that. But I think they got it right on the program. The state, the self-engine and the state. Here, well, there's no rehabilitation here. You mention the national betrayal and I don't know what you've said. Well, what's clear is that the state in which it is to be fulfilled has to be filled up and a calendar is lucky to be able to follow it. And there the opposition will have the idea of being able to control it from the first minute as well. And then what's clear is that by the hand of the political representation of this legislature, then it's necessary to update the auto-gourage and to-day. And we must do it from the hands of our political will here. And what else is there to say? We at least think that the rights required to satisfy social, economic, culture, and political rights must be in the new political state. And I believe that this period of pandemy has taught us, among other things, that it is absolutely necessary. Nay, and is it to be inferred that the time has ceased to come to me? ] Eta bukatuk had, behintzat, hau irakurrite. Well, guk Madrilen inbetitura garaian Alderdi Sozialistarekin hitzarmen bat burutu genuen inbetitura-saiorako, eta hor bai irekitzen dugula baita ere debate bat, beraiek ere konprometituta daudelako, eta esaten du: "To promote, through dialogue between parties and institutions, the necessary reforms to adapt the structure of the State to the recognition of territorial identities, agreeing, where appropriate, the necessary legal modifications, in order to find a solution both to the dispute in Catalonia and in the negotiation and agreement of the new Statute of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in accordance with national feelings of belonging". One of them will say: Well, literature, prose... Well, it has its value, why, at least, the government of Sánchez has been engaged to open a debate. The government of Sánchez and the government of Podemos. That's why I'll leave it for the second session what we need for the future. But what is clear is that we have been called together on the side of the electoral body, and at least we shall lead this political order to the utmost.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u21	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. To answer the parliamentary teams, Mrs. Irart Okiñena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u22	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, members of the government, good afternoons again. Mr. Egibar, we're not a patriot on the left, we're meeting the Basque Country. I told you four years ago. And here, the only one who removed PNV's government was that the patriotic left-handed "precisamente" was his present consideration. From that point on, you can do all the other readings. And the Basque People seem to want no deal with them, because of your tone, that's you, and I'm telling you that. You've committed an opposition to the position. And that shows a weakness, Mr. Egibar. Look, I've introduced this nomination of my own if you've used it with such a blow as that for the political responsibility. And I see this political concern from two points of view. For the sake of our euscript results, because it seems to me that it cannot be compared with the other groups which are sitting here in opposition, and consequently because it seems to me that the Basque Country is represented by the Union as an alternative in this country. And because I think it's indispensable, and you're not there, maybe you agree, but you'll get other policies started. Maybe we don't agree with these politics, maybe you will see that just the same thing as èbPNV does. I can understand that from our point of view, but from my point of view, these social policies, these employment policies, the strategic needs of our industry, which I have spoken of well, need answers. And in my opinion and in my opinion, they need other answers. And that's why I proposed my nomination. And we're willing to make popular demands, no doubt. And when I say popular traditions, Mr. Egibar, it's the agreement that won't leave anybody behind. I have asked a question here, in the morning session, and what we have learned from the previous crisis, and one of the things we've learned from the previous crisis has been several people, many people, the most vulnerable people, on one side, have stayed apart because of these crisis. And it seems to me, as society, that we have no one, or as few men as we can, to prevent it; otherwise it will be for us to have the qualities of poverty, and to have so many other pointers, which are not the best, because we have much better, much better. And for that purpose, the Jelt Party of the Eukians can put on the table a pattern, and we put another pattern on it. I don't despise your example, I say what's lacking, what I don't like, why I don't like, but don't despise the example that the Basque People put on the table. And if it's an agreement for this or the improvement of Hosamism, the Basque Country will be there. No doubt... But these popular agreements are not only an agreement. And I'll tell you more: the agreement does not mean a thing which your party often believes, and is conciliatory. And it's self-control that is often brought to the table by the Jelt Party. And if we want settlements, and if we want co-ordination and cooperation in this new phase, and if we believe that the agreements taken between all of them will have a much greater influence over this society, and that the public will receive them democraticly much better, we must know that, as I have known in other cases, each of us must leave something with it. But what is not possible is to say, "This is what it is and this is what we must remember." And I'm telling you for my sake, because I collected the Basque Country and I've been to the Basque Country while I'm in the Union, but I'm also telling you that when I've been interviewing so many operators all this time, it says that the Government communicates it, but because it doesn't give him a chance to cooperate. I don't know if they all lie, that's what they all mean, they're all from the Basque Country... I don't think so, I don't think so. And all this requires something very important to me, and is another model of government. And in this model of government, at the present day, when they have so many quotations to Europe, I think that even the kings of the Government ought to change it. And you said we didn't want any deal. That's not true. And if you think that the Government is what you have said, that the proposals made to convey to or to frame, are those which we have made in the pandemonies, tell me why, Mr. Egibar, have been the foundation of our election-pain, our commitments, and today, as far as we have been able to share in this government from the first moment. I will tell you more, and for the quotations you have made about health: When there was not yet one case of COVID-19 in the Araba, Biscaia, and Gipuzia, we asked the Government when there was not yet a single case, and when there was not yet one case, I called Mrs. Merene Murga, and asked her what was the situation, what was the situation, what was the matter with Fordan and Italy. And I told him our hand was stretched out to help. It's more than the attitude they've made, and the protocol they've made, and the fact that the Basque Country isn't in agreement with. But it's not just the Basque People collecting, is it? Ask your first attention doctors what's going on, and ask some other collectives. So take things in size, see how things can be done; see how we can structure the cooperation, and see what each of us will put on one side of this cooperation, what we can leave in a corner, and how we will do this co-operation. And bargains, Mr. Egibar, are possible, it's possible that the Basque Country should be assembled. Me and you worked a lot, and we worked together in the Autogobernu Poncia agreement. And we made a deal. And you said very little today about this deal. But in the former law it was the greatest agreement ever made in this chamber by such a proposal. And now, considering the results of the Jeltza Party and the Basque People, I will tell you that this agreement is still more protective. And that this agreement is received by a new political State, receiving another relation to the State of Spain, that it receives a sure system, and that it receives the right of deciding, and the right of questioning the people. He gets all that. And if we are told several times here that it is not important, it is necessary, as you well know, that you deceive us in order to put in truth all the public policies that we ought to put in force; otherwise we cannot put them. That's essential. And when I say revolt, it's because you've refused to talk about it. Then you'll say more, but we have a deal, a big deal, a big deal. It is otherwise what other men have produced, what other sects have produced; and others who tell us of what they have done, whether it be accepted or refused by the Jestric Party, have very clearly mentioned all that. I have introduced my nomination, Mr. Egibar, ladies and gentlemen of the Hultzian Party of Eukaldo and all the members of the Chamber, because it seems to me that we are the alternative of this people, to do more things in this country in a different manner, and that more and more, it is gathering together, the Basque Country, but also to a national independent project. And they're witnessing it, both in the North Basque Country and even in Nafarro. And I think... And the word I have spoken I shall again bring back the transition; That's why I've run my nomination because I feel there's a lot of... When I say so from the rhubarese, not radically and running for two days, I have therefore repeated the word transition which must be changed from the root. And we've got to change the steps that we're going to take in the most urgent transition, and we've got to change the steps we have to take in feminism... There is no doubt, when I say all this, first, at a point of view which I have said a thousand times in this pandemy: and to give an answer to the measures which we ought to take as a people strategicly as a common people, in order to approve and correct our answers. And therefore I have said that this people has learned to rise and advance in very difficult times, and in very difficult situations, which has generally been a collective force. And the Basque People will be in that collective force. Not only in the collective force of parties, but also in the collective force of other motives. And in this sense it seems to me that not only to make a special effort with the majority of the unions, but to attract them in some way or another, or not to work with the association of this people, that it is a fault, and that things are beginning to change in Europe in this sense, and that we must find ways of working in another way. If the citizens are in the center, if we are to answer the wants of the people, if we are to overcome the commercial deficiencies of Osa, if we are to overcome the care of education, we have propositions, we have our proposals, and we shall be in the bargain. If the deal is a core, then maybe we won't be. But I will try, and our party will try to make it useful to this country, to be beyond the headline, in these agreements. I don't know everything I've told you, or I'll tell you later. Mrs. Hatch, I've been struck by a couple of things. You said to protect the candidate... That you will not protect "poque no integruó a las hürsdas vascas." Well, maybe you'll have to tell Mrs. Mountain why she doesn't want to integrate "entre las hürscas." Because, well, I'm here to make deals. The same thing I've said to Mr. Egibar, e, agreements must be, not because they're left, or whatever they are, must be based on content. And then I'd tell you, too, that "integr las hunquierdas vascas" surprised me a little... You will explain to me the first step Podemos has taken in this parliament as soon as the law began. And if that's explained, maybe things will make things clearer to us. "And the pact with the PSE, it's more of the same." Man, don't forget you're in the government of Spain, Mrs. Gorrotxategi. They are in the Government of Spain, and together with the Basque Nationalist Party in Nafarroa. In any case, Madam, considering the things you have said, I think there is a great deal of harmony and agreement between us, both with you and the Social Party, and I do not at all avoid doing the same with the rest of the rest of the party. But I repeat: it will always be based on content, apart from content, because it is of no use at all, and is generally frustrating. Frustration in us, for the new agreements we can make in the future in us, and frustration is the most important thing in the people. And that's something I think it's inevitable. From the left, and from the people, I'd ask you to keep that view on the left side, wouldn't I? And even more from a part of the world that thinks himself a plurination. Rights, madam, cannot be divided. And there will be great difficulties in the execution of so many measures which you have brought here today, and which I have brought to the present day, that if these rights are divided, and we are to ask Spain for leave. but especially that we must endeavour to make this people a different state. And I'll tell you and Mr. Egibar and all the other members of the Chamber. I think that in this sense we, who make the proclamation of an independent Euskal Republic, proposed this plan of sovereignty from our autonomy, Mr. Egibar, made a few settlements on this plan, and made a sort of settlement. But there are things in the root to be another relationship with the State of Spain, if it's true that we want to look after the men and women of this country. For we may say the other too, but we lack tools, and we must often beg often. And what we propose is a compact, which has all these conditions, and will give them the word and the decision of the people. The mountain, you told me to look at the opposition, you too, look at the left groups, and you'll see that there are other possibilities, but you've made a definite choice, and it's very legitimate, isn't it? But I'd like to tell you that the left hand is very plural, that we were here, and that there wasn't a single moment before the election campaign, after the election campaign, after the election campaign, and I'd say to Mr. Egibar, who wants so much agreement, that we weren't even called by election love, the only interlocutors have been representatives of the Socialist Party. And you had the possibility of doing other things yourself. Gobernu indartsu bat exacteten duzu; I hope I have to pray to her izango. Ze sarri askotan aurretik ikusi izan ditugu bi Gobernu hemen, éta ez Gobernu bakar bat. Eta oran Diozu Gobernu indartsu bat izango from her and it's time to walk. Well, all right, Mrs. Mendia, but I've been on the run for a while. That I believe that being in politics and getting into politics, you know very well that it means stepping down from day one. I believe that all the people of this country, those who work in different aspects, are all thrown, now in the time of COVID and always, when they professionally carry out a task too – with the exceptions known, age abar, age abar. But, of course, we are, and if you want to know how I am, you can see that I am. And in making deals, on those terms that I have said to make deals, Mrs. Mountain. For, as I have said, words are words, but we need content under these words; and the contents may be in one direction, which you know very well, or in another direction. And your Party Socialist What I repeat is that we shall not leave anyone behind us, and by making a definite passage, but you have told me that I have no road page. And I think that you've said more, well, because today it would have been time to say that, because I think I've put a bright piece of road here on the table, some people have forgotten I've talked about industry, others have forgotten-perhaps they don't like some people, but I think that I've mentioned a clear page and I've already mentioned the means to get this piece of paper out of the way, because I'm so convinced that Mr. Egibar must be, and I think that you know that. And I have brought them on the table-in the meantime, we may now use some kind of financial measures and some others which may be upon the future. To do so, Mrs. Mountain will tell you that there are words to be fulfilled. And it's not possible to say, yes, legally... We shall derogate the law of the Reformation, and then say no a few hours later and say yes and say whatever... It's important that the agreements taken and the agreements that are made, and that I should think that thousands of men and thousands of women in this country and the thousand women of the Spanish State have insisted on this reform, because after you've said it before, you said no. Well, because you've made it clear that you're not going to do it. You're not going to work for the Basque Republic. I was not surprised, I was not surprised; I was not at all surprised to say so. I'll work for an independent Basque Republic. All I ask is that everyone here, all the people who live here, should have the equality of choice to determine our future. And I think that's a fundamental principle in a healthy democracy. And, further, it seems to me that democracy is not a moment; it is not a thing that comes into being at a moment. And I'm not going to start talking about how the Spanish got in and the jar's on, and the little can of yours. But it seems to me that democracy is not a moment to act as a democracy. And that in this case democracy ought to know how to grow and how to answer what the people at the moment require. And I think that's a very acceptable democratic principle. And it's a very acceptable one, and also highly accepted in our European countries. Scotland questioned, made a referendum, asked, asked again, and announced. And the next day, I don't know if the sun came out, because it's a bit rainy, but nothing happened, and nothing happened. And so the inhabitants of the country felt, no doubt, that their words and their decisions were of some value, because in that sense I think democracy must be modified by the protagonism which the citizens possess, and the protagonism they have in society. We can't go on like we did in the last centuries. As I say to you, I want to bring changes from the root, not radically, to this country, because it seems to me that they are necessary and that they must be put to practice. And I've made a first drawing of what was important and I'm not going to repeat it to you again. I want to talk about my family. My family is the family of thousands and thousands of men fighting against the xenophobia in this world. My family is the family of the Basque Country and the family of thousands of men who have fought and fought against fascism in this world. Therefore, on our grandmothers, on our nobility, on our mothers and fathers, on our account and on our children, I wish to repeat that this is my family. And that ours is freedom. (Applause) Thank you, Mrs. Irart. In reply, Mr. Urkullu Renteria has the word, Mr. President, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u23	Congressmen, guests, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. It's the new name of our future plans. It's more than a name. It requires a change of habit and attitude to face the situation and to adapt it to the future. You should also expand these changes to organizations and politics. That's why I'm going to begin my second involvement with some consideration about the moods we're seeing at this time of coronabirus. We live in a context full of anxiety and uncertainty, trouble and difficulties everywhere, here and in the world. Here and in the world. Nobody has a magic solution anywhere. In front of it, I wanted to offer a positive point of view: first, realistic; second, constructor; third, open coworker. This is the position which society expects on our side, and which we have to deal with; a positive and a constructive attitude, and a force to give the best answers. Some public behavior we've known for the past few months deserves critical attention. Unfortunately, it's behavior that doesn't look at parties. And to-day, in this discussion, I mean the three kinds of attitudes that have been reflected again: a perpetual aggravation, an attitude and a constant change of judgment, according to the different conditions of the social alarm. they are sterile; they are contrary to the spirit which ought to prevail at the time of our lives. Certainly, today I again see the persistence of attitudes that I consider are not commensurate with the complexity of the time we live in, the uncertainty that we suffer, the difficulties that we know and will continue to know. I am referring to the baseless demagogy, with a vantage point that obviates the global and profound complexity of the situation; the concerned agitation of the social alarm through prophecies of discontrol and chaos, an alarm that seeks to undermine the morale of society by an always negative vision; the criticism of the fat brush, the whole goes well, the changes of criteria, with the sole aim of wasting the Government. How many things have been said and said about the acquisition of health supplies, testing, capabilities and resources of our system, hibernation of the economy, socio-health care, deaths with COVID, transparency, postponement of the elections and their new call. If it were for Euskal Herria Bildu and for Elkarrekin Podemos, today we would not be here; I don't even know if we would be in electoral campaign; in pre-campaign yes, permanent... How many things have been said about going back to the classroom. I remind you that we have the lowest student-to-class ratios in the state; we are going to guarantee security measures in the centers. This is the shared goal. We bet on face-to-face education in the center itself. How many things have been said about the search for Alberto and Joaquín in the landfill of Zaldibar; the fact is that we committed an internal report, and we have done the memory of inspection and identification of waste, which states: "The deposition of any residue other than those contemplated in the integrated environmental authorization granted to the landfill has not been identified." We committed an external audit that states: "The department has met the inspection and control requirements set out in both the landfill directive and the industrial emissions directive." We have also commissioned the expert report. We have committed maximum cooperation with Justice, and we are doing so. I remember that this topic is still under judice. The truth is that we have authorized new land security work, for the next three months, to strengthen the search areas. We will continue day by day, I repeat, working on a private land of a private company. How true it is that time and elections are putting everything in place. It is a lesson learned: serenity, perspective and consciousness and consistency in rigor. This is actually what has worked from March to this moment; this is the spirit that the Government is going to maintain in the face of the enormous challenges we face. Having heard the speeches of the spokespersons of each of the parliamentary groups, I shall pause for a moment to respond succinctly to each of them. Mrs Martínez, I understand your strategy; you need to be the spokesperson for stridency in this Parliament. His words, in fact, are not aimed at Basque society; they are designed to get headlines in some state media, which make a resonance box of his extremist strategy. You will not find in me, Mrs Martínez, an ally to feed your strategy; if you are going to engage in the permanent dispute, you will find the void; if you want to debate you will find, the opportunity to contrast policies and models. Mrs Martínez, Basque society has made a firm and clear commitment to coexistence, based on a critical memory of the past, which assumes our pluralism. This has been reflected in the distribution of the vote that popular will has offered to each political force. You ask for respect for your political formation and your 14,000 votes. I ask you not to insult and respect the rest of the political forces and their voters. I'm sorry, sir, but I have to tell you the content of your speech has been conditioned by your competition with Vox at certain moments. By this means you limit the opportunity to act in the middle of the spot. "You and your parties shall know and decide, and you shall decide where to place them. In the middle of the field or in the barn. Do not forget, Mr Iturgaiz, that your party is ruling in a good number of autonomous communities. Where is the differential fact of the management of the People's Party? Let us not abuse demagogy; we are facing a pandemic, which affects the whole planet, all communities. We are at an exceptional time, and collaboration must not have acronyms; we are demonstrating it, I am demonstrating it in dialogue and cooperation between the different autonomous communities. Tomorrow, Friday, we will do so once again; I assure you that we share the difficulties and priorities also with the presidents belonging to the People's Party, presidents of autonomous communities in the Spanish state and autonomous cities. I was surprised by your references to the beginning of the school year. I have heard – and you have also heard in my speech – clear proposals and criteria for the start of the school year: foresight, coordination and adaptation. This is a priority of our Government. You ask about the agenda. Today I have brought to this plenary the government's agenda, an agenda focused on addressing the health crisis, ensuring public services and with the priority of employment and economic recovery; it is the Basque agenda, Mr Iturgaiz; this is the Basque agenda. In my presentation you will not have heard any proposal for the division of the Basques, Mr Iturgaiz, for much less identity reasons; on the contrary, our bet is the social cohesion of a plural society. I recognise in your speech, however, a piece of proposal, and I would like to stick with that, Mr Iturgaiz; I gather your proposals in the area of the extension of the ERTE – by the way, a German model that I promoted in the first video conference of presidents, Mr Iturgaiz –, support for trade and tourism, the industrial sectors, the socio-health strategy or the funds to support the company. I do not know if anyone has repaired in the COVID fund; I do not know if anyone has repaired that, for the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises, of the 1 billion of entry we have arranged and being prepared also to another 500 million, the 1 billion have not been exhausted at the request of small and medium-sized enterprises. In any case, all these proposals are explicit priorities of our Government and, in fact, they are already included in my speech tomorrow at the Conference of Presidents; I insist, tomorrow again. As I said earlier, the autonomous communities share needs and priorities. Mr. Hernandez and Mrs. the least consistency must be maintained between what is said and what is done. You're part of the Spanish government. You're asking me to do what you don't do here. Don't ask for it, you demand it. Your size is different, or different, for others and you. Please give me some examples of what the Spanish Government is doing and what we're not doing here. Nik Euskadin urtetan egin denaren adibideak eskainiko diskizuet. Adibideak: diru-sarrareak bermatzeko erranta, socio-sanitary arrest, migratzaileentzako eta errefuxiatuentzako arrested, Basque Country 2030 agenda. They are examples of issues that institutional and political leaders of your party have come to know here, holding working meetings with officials of our Government in the newly completed legislature. In any case, I would like to stress that in the previous parliamentary term we had a collaborative experience, with the adoption of the 2020 budgets. Budgets that are enabling us to respond effectively to the challenges we face. This is the path: to look for those fields in which we can collaborate constructively and effectively for and for our society. And I'm still holding my hand for it. I have put forward proposals; I have put forward priorities; I have put forward initiatives, and they are built from an attitude of continuous improvement in our management. Of course we have to improve. Of course. I said it! What I have not heard from you is proposals or initiatives to improve the situation. The complexity of the current context calls for more than just common places, topics and demagoguery. You, Mrs Gorrotxategi, question the Basque system of social protection. It is the state's most advanced system, to such an extent that it serves as a reference, I insist, to state policies and other communities. It also questions our educational system, when it offers better results our educational system. For example, we have the lowest school drop-out rate in the state, and below the European average. This means that we leave no one behind; it means that we have an equitable system. I also remind you that the fiscal pressure in Euskadi is higher and more progressive than in our environment. For example, the upper sections of the IRPF are higher than those of the State. We share the privilege of public and social police services you mentioned. You have mentioned precisely the social service which is a chief part of the project I have presented, and equality, and poverty. It is not necessary to remind you of the difficulties which the Spanish Government is in those respects, as has been said before. You must know that because these cares are in your hands. Alderdi Sozialistari, nire esker ona. I thank the Socialist Group for its intervention and contribution to the Government's experience over the past four years, and also for the shared spirit that has led to the agreement that underpins this investiture in recent weeks. An agreement of great silence and concreteness, reached at times of great uncertainty about the future between two different political parties at a record time. We have differences, how can we not? Now, we have demonstrated the ability to put forward what unites us. In a context of uncertainty and difficulty; it is a model of good practice. Madame Kortja, in response to the Basque People gathering, a mature form of politics is characteristic of resisting the complexity of reality. As a single recipe, he who proposes to spend more of it in all respects does not admit the complexity of reality. In the air he builds castles or you builds castles. The situation is not to waste time on impossible fantasies. You have made a description, Mrs Kortajarena, catastrophic of the situation in Euskadi before the pandemic. He's used his intervention shift to take stock of my eight years as a lehendakari. Look, I'm giving you some data. In 2019, I stop below 10%, the lowest rate in the state; the highest per capita income in the state; the poverty risk rate of 12.1%, the third lowest in Europe, Mrs Kortajarena; recognised by the United Nations for our social cohesion policies; spending on social protection per capita of EUR 8,700, above the European average; the lowest school drop-out rate in the state, as I said, and one of the lowest in Europe. In any case, the objective of our programme is to recover this situation as soon as possible. To this end, we have four sources of resources: the approved budget, debt to cover the fall in income in the European deficit and debt framework, the reordering of budgetary priorities, and European funds. Euskadi is not in the third division. Euskadi has problems, needs, challenges, but we are an advanced, modern, cohesive country. Euskadi is a great country; now with a very difficult situation, but with a future. You have criticized everything, but you have not devoted a single word to presenting or defending your program or alternative model. They teach better what they need to learn most. In a plural country like ours, it is not just about winning the elections; it is essential to be able to agree with others as well. The reality is very clumsy: they start this debate with 21 votes out of 75, and end this debate with the same 21 votes. Its capacity to forge and sustain agreements remains unprecedented. Gorea bezalako herri anitz batan, Kortajarena andrea, kontua ez da hautskundeak irabaztea bakarrik; funtsezkoa da, halaber, batzuekin beasts adosteko gai izaisa. Egoskore bone error yes. Eztabaida hau, esan bezala, 21 botoekin hasi duzue, eta 21 boto berdinekin amaituko duzue. Akordioak Egypt the age of the hour eustako gaitasuna oraindik era ezezaguna da zuen jarduran. I consider, however, that I am an expert in terminology. Yes... well, I'd like you to confess yourself too, and how many terminologyes, used by the Eucous Party Jultarians, what you've done, and what you've been using today. And when I speak of terminology, Madame Kortja's, it's hard for me, it's hard for me, it's hard, it's hard, it's hard, it's hard, it's hard for me, if you want the kind of Basque Country, you've got so many names for the Basque Country. So, experts in terminology, more than one, yes. You've said the builder position and the will to the agreements, and that's what you said reset. Anyway, Mrs. Kortja's, we're at the start of legislation, it's true that in this legislation, unlike before, there'll be a majority of you. It is true, but we clearly see that the crisis facing us demands the help of all and the contributions of all. Therefore, in any case, our door is open, and it will be: open for dialogue and open to agree and set up proposals for society. In the former two legislatures we have cultivated and obtained compacts in other respects, in the manufacturing, and not in the structure. Our will and will is to open this method of agreement, and to penetrate into harmony. With this attitude we give the beginning to this new legislation, which will be so peculiar. To the Jeltzac Party and Mr. Egibar, Thank you, the whole staff of the Jeltza Party. First of all, because of the work you've done in the past two legislations, helping you to protect yourself when you were in a minority and fill up the targets you set up. Even the trust I gave my nomination to make president. We must face a new legislation with great challenges; the function of the legislature will be on the level of these challenges. I'm sure of it, always at Euskakia's service. I want to highlight the priorities of the moment we are living in. Many of the interventions have brought together visions of a coincident nature; I submit to you the agenda of priorities that the Government proposes. Priorities portray us; they are also an invitation to work together. Each priority represents an opportunity for collaboration with all groups: Economic recovery and employment recovery. Employment is the best social policy; it is our first objective: to put unemployment back below 10%. Adapt the Basque health system to the challenge of COVID. I rigorously strengthen and evaluate all public and social health services. Social cohesion. Do not leave anyone behind, strengthen social policies so that inequalities do not increase. Education. Ensure safe and quality face-to-face education, comprehensive digitisation of the education system. Climate, environment, energy transition. Society, institutions and the productive fabric are aware and prepared to turn this challenge into an opportunity. Industry, innovation, investment, internationalisation, keys to the competitiveness of the Basque economy. Youth agreement, which covers the three pillars of emancipation: training, employment and housing. New Youth Act. Culture and Basque. Commitment of support to the sector and development of cultural and creative industries. Active promotion of the use of euskera. Co-existence based on equality, pluralism and human rights. Critical memory of the past. And I am also addressing Euskal Herria Bildu in this regard, to remind him that this government has been the first to propose a new prison policy in line with the situation of the pandemic, and you know it well. And finally, update the self-government. We have a basis for agreement in this Parliament and we have an opportunity. Why? Because our system of self-government has proved to be effective, because a new model of state is needed, because Europe is in the process of transformation, because our system is unique, because we must settle bilaterality, because we have the model of the Concert. Concert is an exercise of understanding and respect between different people. The term political concert has been used The debate should not be reformist, follow-up and complicit, in the face of a breakdown of the model; it is very good for the populist discourse to arm the bases, but it is not credible in terms of political realism. It's good, it's healthy, having illusions and plans for the future as a people, as a nation. No one, no Basque political choice, questions the goodness of advancing in quotas of responsible self-government. Despite those who deny such a reality, Euskadi is a political nation that emerges after a process of institutionalization and from a social fact that brings, in turn, the cause of the cultural nation of Euskal Herria. The political nation is not limited to the exercise of these historical rights; historical rights have helped to shape the Basque nation, and they represent the legitimizing element of our constituent power. The unique fact that allows us to grow as a nation. Moving on to what have also been the priorities that I have degenerate this morning, I insist that the challenge is to build from the diversity of identities, to agree and to agree. The challenge is to add, expand, expand. It's not about giving up anything, it's about agreeing and agreeing. Self-government is a pact, and the framework is here in this Parliament. Termino. "I thank you with all my heart for the work of you and your teammates for the day's work. I really appreciate it! I am aware of the gravity and depth of the crisis that we must face. Today, in Basque society, there is a majority presence of value that invites cooperation and collaboration; this is going to be our determination. We will need all the support and all the help; I say this with all sincerity and humility, starting with the institutions, with which we commit collaborative governance. Also in our relationship with the State and Europe. I offer my hand extended and ask for the help of society, because unity and collaboration will be more necessary than ever. I call for the help of associations, social and economic actors, the third sector and organised civil society. I call for help from political and parliamentary groups. The more we are able to collaborate, the better it will be for our society. Kezka eta zalantzen aurrean, auzolana – now zuek eabili duzue gaurko honetan–. Sherri-lehentasunen ezarpena eta erabakitasuna. We have to face the three hinges we have to share: To encourage economic retention and restore employment, to guarantee social confusion, equality, and social justice, and always to strengthen the answer of health, and in general to improve our public services. The government will give proper answers to these ends from the first day. We're gonna need all the help we can get. It is our decision to go the way of conversation, agreement, and neighbourhood, and to proceed that way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Passing on the teams, Miss Mist, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u25	From right here I'm doing it... Well, since I'm only allowed three minutes and 33 seconds, in this reply I'm going to be allowed to pass a joint response to the two candidates. One cannot support a candidate who despises the help of the EMU, who prefers to have two citizens buried for months by a nationalist idealist. It's not ethical. You cannot support a candidate whose government says, before the elections, that the Basque economy is going to fall by the crisis of COVID-19 by 8.7%, and after the elections, you are attested to a 20% drop. They're not telling the truth. One cannot defend a candidate who, after the legislature, promises to replenish the Left Margin and year after year is more depressed. They don't want to help. One cannot vote for a candidate who does not attend coordination meetings with institutional officials of other self-governments, without first closing the cut to be obtained. It's not solidarity. One cannot support a candidate whose party woven the alliance in Lizarra to save ETA and continue to collect the honeys of nationalist blackmail. It's not moral. You cannot support a candidate who divides Basque society into good and bad Basques, depending on the language they speak. You can't afford it. One cannot vote for a candidate whose party does not take responsibility for years of corruption, of illegal financing, for having turned Álava into the house of a Sicilian-style mafia, with the case of Miguel. It can't be tolerated. You can't support a candidate who in the campaign refuses the sanitary cords and practices them when someone doesn't commune with his or her ideal. He is not loyal or respectful to almost 18,000 Vox voters. One cannot vote for a candidate who devotes more time to weaving his areas of influence than to designing school protocols for a safe return to school. It's not a receipt. One cannot vote for a candidate who, by holding the representation of the State in autonomy, says he feels only Basque. It can't be tolerated. One cannot support a candidate who proposes a bicephalic government and signs secret pacts with Sanchez, nightly and light-hearted. You can't consent. You know what? Spread it out for you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u26	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Popular. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon again. I would like, Mr Urkullu, to make two assessments, if I may, thanking him, moreover, for the tone, which is different from other lehendakaris which I have had the opportunity to hear from this rostrum. Look, the ERTE were incorporated into the labour reform – you will remember – in the labour reform of the People's Party, by Fatima Báñez, the Minister of Labour. Yes, yes... That same labor reform as you, the Basque Nationalist Party, voted against it here in this Basque Parliament. Yes, yes, in this Basque Parliament. And that the Basque Socialist Party, with Podemos and Bildu, with that left-wing front, have fortunately failed to repeal before the pandemic; because, if not, we would not have had even ERTE for thousands and thousands of people who need it on our land as in the rest of Spain. Another assessment, on the subject of Zaldibar. You bring a report. He did not recall that there was also a report from the Ertzaintza, which was talking about signs of crime, or another report from the European Union, from the European Union Commissioner, where in that report, in that Commissioner's comment, he was saying that there was also evidence that the appropriate environmental measures were not taken in Zaldibar. And the question of Zaldibar, the problem of Zaldibar, was that no investigation was made, it was not reported, it was not inspected as it was to be done in Zaldibar and that that was not improvisations, as the Environment Advisor told him, but that it was realities, realities that unfortunately, today, as I explained earlier, we have what we have in Zaldibar, with still one person, unfortunately, under the rubble of Zaldibar. I would have started at this time in another way, but after listening to Mrs Iriarte, I think... she has said it very loud, very clear, and even a bit angry or a bit angry, to Mr Egibar, – she is not at this time – but she reminded him of the shames of the Basque Nationalist Party, and she has clarified it and I thank him for clarifying it, Mrs Iriarte: those covenants on the status, on the new status, which are still broader, deeper pacts – "haundiak, zuk esaten zenuen, paktu horietan" – that what they want to present is more self-determination, more right to decide and that they had agreed and had already placed him on the track of the train with you, with the Basque Nationalist Party. That is why, Mr Urkullu, I say to you: Basque society again... when society, this society, moves, always moves in parameters of needs different from those that you offer us with hidden pacts or interested pacts with certain political groups. The new status is not the concern of the Basques when they get up in the morning, nor do the Basques think if we need more self-government or less self-government when they get up in the morning; the concern of the Basque citizens, the real concerns, the real problems of the citizens are focusing at the moment, as you know: first, in not getting sick, in not getting infected with this terrible pandemic, and those who are sick want to be healed as soon as possible, and those who are in those ERTE or in those EREs in our society want to find lehenbailehen Therefore, when you wake up or get up these people only think if you can get out of this crisis, if there is light at the end of this tunnel. They want to know if they will be able to climb the blind of their businesses so many merchants, who do not know if they will have to open or close that blind or if they arrive at the end of the month so many autonomous who have very serious problems. And those are the real problems of this society, because the people, the vast majority, you know, mainly you, are distressed by what is happening right now in our land. The reality is that we have a different society that four years ago, logically, and even eight months ago, but his speech, look, has not changed anything. I insist, self-criticism zero; I have told you before, Mr Urkullu: you have made a statement of intentions, without compromise, much desire, much aspiration, much intention, as you said, etc., etc., in short, much raca-raca, blah, blah, blah; but, by the way, about the complaints that you told me earlier about education, listen, are the complaints that we still have yesterday... the complaints of educational agents, it is not because we only read them, that also in the media that appear, because the media also talk to the same educational agents, is that it is those educational agents who are transferring these complaints to us, but their recipes are... I told you before, those of the past, those of management failure, improvisation, inefficiency... You have been ruling for eight years, and you bring here almost again the same program with more vote, really, with a loose majority, a very broad majority for you, which, by the way, is the program that you have not fulfilled, much of it, in the previous legislature. You will remember it; now you are talking about 26 laws, but you promised 28 laws in this House, in your legislative programme – yes, yes, Mr Urkullu, we have read it, we have, I will pass them: 28 laws – Do you know how many of you have passed here in this House?, eight, eight laws, and now by listening to them you bring us the same laws as if they seemed to govern others, other people, other political parties. Society changes and you do not change; in that it is unalterable. I wanted to talk to you again about the issue of self-government, which you have mentioned on several occasions and which I mentioned earlier at the beginning of my speech. I want to make clear to you our position, that of the People's and Citizens' Group, which is the defence of this Statute of Gernika, and I say to you more: if we have to reform things of the Statute we must reform those things that we want to preserve, we must reform those things that we want to preserve, and here comes the crux of the question: you, the nationalists, do not want to retain this Statute of Gernika, but you want to liquidate it. And I give them an example: if you, for example, are going to change your home or you are going to change your home, you don't commit works of reform and improvements, why if you are going to sell it, if you are going to change? What is happening, what is happening, is that you do want to change houses, you want to change houses with these gentlemen, so you do not want reforms in this statute, and the change of houses is that new status, which serves the independence of the Basque Country and the annexation of Navarre. I respect him, I'm sorry... I would repeat it to Basque society in campaign to the point of satiety: that you presented yourself here, you will remember, with the lack of moderation, that you were going to park the issue of status in a drawer and that you were going to take it out, you were going to take it out again, after the elections; I told you also in the debate. I must acknowledge one thing, Mr Urkullu, which has hit speed records. They sent as a ram the Madam President to announce it, the President of Parliament, to announce it in her speech, and you are already going to be on the locomotive running... They're going to put the locomotive in motion for that status. Because, look, I want to tell you one thing: the reality is that the nationalists, nationalism in general, are still looking for that door of departure, that door of exit of the Constitution, the door of exit of the Statute of Gernika, and you are thundering magnificently, and going from moderation to radicality when you want, in a plas fold. And in some moments you are in this moderation, and you sell us moderation, and in other moments you go to radicality. You can sing Mikel Laboa songs here, and then you go to Madrid and then you sing Manolo Escobar to us. Well... The Basque Nationalist Party is like this, it is like this; they have that game, which is good for them at certain times. And, as I said before, one thing is the reform of the statute and another very different position in key... , Mr Urkullu, as a keystone of the Spanish Constitution. There you will never find us, talking about bilaterality, when you want, above all, unilaterality and not bilaterality. By the way, a point, since he has cited the topic of forality and its interpretation, I, to tell him that there is nothing more Spanish than forality and, if not – do not laugh – check the history of where it comes from and learn that there is nothing more Spanish than that. In conclusion, Mr Urkullu, you have quoted the word "collaboration" on numerous occasions. By the way, Mrs Mendia, you have explained to me here, you have brought me that 91-page torch, which you have hidden and which you have not taught until today, until we have sat the parliamentarians in the seats of this Parliament – the ability to be attentive to the debate and to read it I assure you that it is very complicated for me, it is very complicated... Now, I don't know, I, maybe; I know my limitations, I... (Barreak) Superwoman But let's talk about one thing: we do read the basics, that five-page "paper", but don't divert attention, Mrs. Mendia, the problem is your piece of paper, I tell you again, how the media said that the status issue is parked; you have said it here, you demarcate, you leave it as a question that doesn't go with you, because you are not going to reach that agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party, fortunately, but you leave Mr. Urkullu free to change his dance partner at that time and go with that lady. Well, all right... Congratulations, Mrs. Mendia! Finally, Mr Urkullu, he has quoted on numerous occasions, too, that he is reaching out to us and then, I do not know, despises us; I do not know if he wants to build this way, to establish ties with the opposition, as I have said before. You offer us extended hand, and then you offer fist, iron fist. But I want to tell you, in conclusion, that the Basque-Citizens Popular Group, I insist, to save lives in this country, to revive the economy, to revive the industry, to generate employment..., we will be supporting it in everything, absolutely in everything, but for other velocities, to ruin Euskadi, then you have to look in front of your bench and you will have to talk to the other candidate, Mrs Iriarte, if you want to ruin Euskadi with those of Bildu. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u28	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Together the Podemos team... The representative, madam, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u29	Today, in his speech, the president mentioned the cooperation, the interaction in the neighborhood. In this arrangement, among other things, we receive, as regards the Reformation of the RGI, necessity, and purpose. What's going on? What do we see when we read that, when we read that plan? Well, that this proposition is based on the same columns as we accused of the previous legislation, and that we miss it, in order to put this reform into action... We miss Eukadin's poverty, which will really overcome it, a tool, effective, and attain it. And we miss above all a value-that is to say, the right to the dignity of life of all persons in the center of the centre-that is to say, that it is the most important column. That's what we miss in that area. In education, in education, in agreement, it is said: that a new law of education ought to be admitted, and that this new law should be founded on the agreement, which is so called Exodus of the principles of education... in this arrangement of education. The agreement against which the unions and the directors and families of the public school came. Well, then, it is difficult to get a good educational law if that is the starting-point. Our wager on this side, and I have mentioned it before, would be a wager for public education, euscal, quality, inclusive and laity. Cheers. Health too... Mr. Urkullu, you mentioned that the septal collapse must be avoided. It's one of the most effective ways to avoid the sanitary collapses with temporality, with the temporal quality of its planet, which is 40 percent. And we must strengthen, strengthen the number of primary professional attentions and resources, that is, through pure oppositions, that we can. Equality, care. Hardly, we can hardly overcome the difference in machista violence if it is defined as a lac. You did it. The inequality is not a essence; the difference is a consequence, a consequence founded on the causes of structure. What are those reasons? Well, capitalism neoliberal and patriarchalism. The confusion of these elements brings about the difference. It is not a seal; it is not a natural phenomenon, or something that comes from heaven. And another thing is strange in this document, in this agreement, and it is that feminism is not mentioned. It's a little phrase to the feminist world. I don't know what a feminist world is. But even feminism itself, as light as a beacon, as a axis, when it's talked about equality and the surveillance system... Not to mention feminism as its leader is a matter of wonder. Environmental. Here, Euskadi Green Deal If we talk about the operation, well, in the pandemia context, a number of companies have reduced their planch: In front of that, the only recipe from the educine recipe, which comes from educicex, ITP, Aernova, the Alsource, is, if it's job to tell the workers that he'll have to cook his wages, maybe, because it's not a very good recipe. And that, yes, is obvious, and it is that there is no economic recovery, it will hardly be able to solve economic recovery unless there is no high-quality employment. Well, it's OCDE himself who says that taxes on capital should be increased. And so there's no need to ask for permission from Madrid. That's something we could do right there. In industry, if you read the deal, you see... you see: That we're betting on internationalization of production stations again. Just at this moment, after the pandemia, or the process of the pandemia, which has shown and revealed to us the weakness of global values, and the importance and the need of which we have to re-establish the sovereignty over our industry. So it's not a very good way to look at the industry in this agreement when that bet comes in. We've said it before, and I'll repeat it: and when we have said all these things, we do not agree with this model of government. We hope, like you mention, the rodillo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u30	Thank you, madam. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u31	At the head of the table, Mr. Urkullu, Mrs. Iritre, members of the legislature, all good afternoons. First of all, I'd like to thank them for the work they're doing today and for the possibility of this plune. And I'm going to start with Mrs Martínnez, although now I'm not in this Chamber. I had thought not to answer, because he spoke of so many things, and that no one deserves to answer, but I want to say one thing: Look, Mrs Martínez, there is no doubt that you have democratic legitimacy, because you have obtained, through the votes, a seat. Those votes and that seat, among other things, are endorsed by the Gernika Statute of Autonomy and the Spanish Constitution. That does not mean deciding that this democratic legitimacy should be matched by a character and democratic principles on the part of his party. So that I do not surprise you, I will warn you – already advance you – what you will see from your seat in this legislature. You will see that this Parliament will pass laws protecting public services, restoring dignity to all victims of all injustices. You see, and you're going to hear about equality. They will see how a society is built that does not distinguish according to its origin, its sex, its beliefs or its thoughts. He will see how full democracy is exercised. I hope you'll learn some of that so you can acquire something of a democratic nature. In the meantime, I'm just going to tell you that I'm very proud that my group is so much different from yours. Mr Iturgaiz, I intended to welcome you back to Parliament, but I have changed my mind and decided to welcome you to the future. Because what is now present to all of us for you is future, because it has come here today with the same speech I had 20 years ago. And what do you want me to say? Listening to him, fortunately, rejuvenates me; he brings me back to when I was 21. And I'm starting to think you're my best anti-wrinkle cream. Fortunately, Euskadi has changed a lot, a lot, since you left this Parliament to take the path of politics in Europe. And if it has changed, among other things, it has been because of the democratic effort of this society and of many parties, among others ours, which is represented in this House. And I have to tell you that there have been a lot of things that I've heard that I didn't like at all, because they seemed to me a lack of respect. Today, with this project so coexisting with the caves of Ekain and with suggestions such as that in Euskadi there are a lot of chiringuitos, I think you have disrespected many people, who, since that you call chiringuitos, out of commitment to this society, have played their lives. And I think it's disrespectful what he said. In any case, if you want to know what a chiringuito is, turn off the phone, call Esperanza Aguirre or Santiago Abascal, who will immediately clear it up. They've got a lot to do in their house! You have spoken of a hand stretched out, in agreement between different, of working together, of unity... I would ask you to take the phone off again and to talk to your colleague Pablo Casado, who yesterday, among other things, kicked that dialogue with the Government of Spain, that joint work that you are demanding. In short, I would suggest that you put aside the revanchism and indigestion of a motion of censure, which it seems you have not yet managed to overcome. And I know that it is obviously very difficult to read these 91 pages; much more to write them and make them possible in an agreement between different, of the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra and the Basque Nationalist Party. But I suggest that you read it, that you read it carefully, and that before you read it you take an Omeprazole, because I hope you will have many things that you will not like. Why? Because in this programme we talk about stable, dignified employment, economic recovery, SMEs, entrepreneurship, help for self-employed people, ERTE, R & D+i... But beyond that, there is talk of strengthening public services, of strengthening public services, of strengthening them, of their universality, of social policies that lead us towards equality, of public education, that everyone has the right, access, education and public services; there is talk of sustainability, of rural development; there is talk of sustainable tourism; there is talk of defending the consumer; there is talk of housing as a subjective right; there is talk of social inclusion; of leaving no one behind, of real reconciliation, of opportunity for our young people; of combating macho violence, of equality, of care, of those who deserve, of those who deserve our greatest; of Basque, of our culture, of so many things that you do not do in the autonomic governments that you lead. One last question, Mr Iturgaiz. Indeed, there is nothing more Spanish than forality, but there is nothing more democratic than rights and freedoms. And in that, fortunately, we took a slice out of them. To Elkarrekin Podemos and Mrs Gorrotxategi, I must tell you that they have been the perfect allies of EH Bildu, who have spent the entire electoral campaign talking about a tripartite, which today has not even deserved their votes when Mrs Iriarte has presented her government programme here. He said that socialists are more of the same. Look, indeed, we are more of the same, of that party that is governing with you in Madrid and that is making so many social policies possible. In short, you, in short, have only served to fatten a project, that of EH Bildu, which leads us to a path without destiny, to a path nowhere. I only wish them that their organic turbulence will end and that they will somehow have the proper internal stability to be able to reach agreements with other parties in this House, without being captivated by other issues. Señora Iriart, Madam Irartart, two essentials are required to be the President; the first is a majority, and the second is a project with credibility, with credibility, with credibility. You have neither the first nor the second. And today you're here to claim the leadership of the opposition, and it's clear. He said we're an aimless government. A Government's direction requires a project. And that project is here, it is the government agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra. And we need a budget, which, fortunately, we are going to guarantee both parties, and which will make it possible for this government agreement and the social policies in it to come forward. What I would like to know is whether you have quantified the expenses that would result from your government program and where they would derive the revenues. I am convinced that if today, in a triple mortal with a tirabush, we all went crazy and made it to you lehendakari, we would give you one of the biggest disgusts of your life. Anyway, I was wondering what we're worried about. What concerns us here is in its objectives, in the objectives of this government programme and in the solutions we propose: health, education, employment, innovation, equality, sustainability; in short, to carry out, to carry out, to carry out, to carry out, this government. Their solution already knows what it is, because it is the old recipe: the right to decide and sovereignty, something that, at the moment, given the situation, much less, is not at all a priority for Basque citizenship. You, Mrs. Irriart, in dreams, we are always at the results. There is no greater expression of sovereignty than today's one that will be able to choose the lehendakari who will lead the next Government. And, of course, there will be times, like the last legislature, when there seems to be more than one government for you; but there will be only one government. There will, of course, be discrepancies; for, fortunately, in democracy it is absolutely lawful to disagree, and we will disagree, but we will disagree from loyalty, from that loyalty which has made it possible for our discrepancies to be reflected in this government agreement as well. In any case, you are also experts in that, because you have often disagreed with the Basque Nationalist Party and have had no reservations about reaching agreements with them, when sovereign issues are concerned. You appealed to a social and political majority. It's not just the one you claim. We need country agreements, and in that, indeed, I very much agree with you. We have built this country without you, because you have never participated in any great country agreement, and despite you. And to the best of my knowledge, only a few words are enough. They have never participated in these great agreements. And, once again, if they arrive, they will be late and they will arrive badly. When they have been able to be useful, they have not been, like the last legislature, with a minority government, who reached out to them to reach a budgetary agreement, which at the last hour did not have its endorsement, because you broke up. What do you want me to tell them? Never will such a high income in seats be so irrelevant in the political history of this country. One side of Reclaman rumbo, determinant, proyecto, diálogo, cowork, feminist government, green and equality. And I want to think about it. You always mention us as PSOE. Well, look, we're PSOE, Partado Socialist Obrero Spañol. Credibility requires facts, not words. And you here have said that you would like all the victims to be recognized. I very much agree with you, and I share that reflection. But to respect them, first, we must condemn all violence. I hope and hope that, during this parliamentary term, we will hear this condemnation from your mouth, because I think it would be the most important step, probably, that has been taken politically in this country in recent years. Affirmations like these, such as the condemnation of violence, would give them credibility. I think it's about time they did. For our part, and with this end, we extend our hand to the agreement, to the dialogue between different people, to the consensus that makes it possible to get out of this crisis and this situation. Egonkortasuna, herri honekin konpromisoa, elkarlana, elkarrizketa, kontsensua... This afternoon, Mr. Urkullu, you will leave as president. This way, the Social Party, the best of luck. Good luck with the chief officers who will form the next government. Your fate will be the fate of all Euscadi. Of course, the Euskikak needs us all. Let's go and meet on the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u32	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Unite the EH team as representative. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. When something serious happens to you, in a way, you wanted to begin your speech with some sort of reflection about it, don't you? These different tendencies you have discovered, and those which you found on the road, and which you found today. I don't know, when pandemy started... you mentioned the dates of the elections and the different things. And I don't know, I don't know who you're talking about Nostradamus. Oh, I'm sorry! ...she took the mask off her face... We proposed to create meeting frameworks, political and social, to discuss and make decisions in a shared way and to tie the shoulder together. The response of the Basque Nationalist Party was the most absolute contempt. Nostradamus. And Mr Urkullu, it is not Euskal Herria Bildu who has told you that the decision to call the elections in July was inappropriate or not, but that it was the citizenship itself, through the surveys – and, above all, before the massive abstention – that answered you, about the origin or not of those elections. Is it also Euskal Herria Bildu's fault that half the citizenry has not gone to vote? We know that, for the Basque Nationalist Party, self-criticism is the criticism that EH Bildu has to make of the actions that Euskal Herria Bildu does. But, in that reflection that you shared on the actions that have to be done when things get difficult, you, your party, your Government, should also make self-criticism about what action you have done. He also mentioned the school year. He did not like people here to comment on the concerns that, in the day to day, those who are parents, mothers, grandmothers, grandparents, but those that we meet in general, have put on the table. He didn't like them. You said you're going to guarantee the school year. What they don't know in the centers is how. And Euskal Herria Bildu has not said so; it is said by the unions calling for a strike, but also by the directors of the educational centres, when, after the press conference that Mrs Uriarte gave, they said they were worse than before. Or when I told him... as I pointed out before, they go to the parents and to the mothers telling them that you have left them alone. I myself have received three notifications in three days from the school where my son and daughter are studying. Every day with different approaches. But that must also be the fault of educational institutions. In this sense, I should like to mention the functions of each one in such a manner, would I not? You have spoken here that I have not dedicated a minute to defend our project. I've got it today, I've got it, I've been running for your candidate and your government program and asking for protection from this Chamber, to balance on it, and I've done that. What I've done is, in front of the trust you're asking for, the balance of these eight years, based on the data, based on the data... And I'm starting to talk to you about a lifemosaic lifestyle with a mosaic of political lives. And from the very beginning I have said that the way or the way to answer these mosaic lives could have been two: one of which you represent, and the other, which is represented by Idera by Okiña in Maddalen. It shows that the answer is always similar, and it is imagination. Your fantasy, our fantasy, and yours, eh? "Principio de realism." This is what Marina Garcés, the feminist philosopher, calls him a prison of what is possible. And I've often mentioned the prison of what's possible in this legislature. Because you want us to believe that it's things as you see. Things have to be done the way you do, and there's no other alternative. Mr. Dondez has also just said about I don't know what he's been talking about when he's having a fantasy or a fantasy. Well, I don't know whether there have been any more witless thoughts than the expression of their intentions that Mrs. But here every one makes his political choice, and makes his own political productions, which are all legitimate and all present to the public. It's not a fantasy, it's some political choice, it's a political program, and it's as legal as the measures and proposals you've brought here. And that's how it is. We won't accept it, and we're not going to accept that prison of what you're trying to impose on us because it's causing us to drown more and more. For if this people know anything, when they dream collectively, they may go very far. And when you want to impose on us that prison of yours which is possible, you will rob us of the capacity to dream collectively, and we will not accept it. And, on the other hand, when you bring in your candidateship, and when you have brought it, you've placed or listed five different targets. You've mentioned unemployment, for instance, to descend below 10 percent as a goal for the government or for the legislature. A 10% unemployment rate to 2024 when all the alarms have been aroused by the rate of 7% of unemployment in Europe? Are you planning to lower us from 10 percent in the entire legislature? It's offensive to us, Mr. Urkullu. And you make your comparisons with Spain, but we wish to make politics of this people, and the prosperity of this people. And in this sense we repeat that the rate of unemployment for us is an absolute anomaly. The same thing about other things you mentioned here: social policy, poverty data... You may here make some comparisons with Spain; but, as far as poverty is concerned, the data in the EPDS is very clear, and evolution is also very clear. Mrs. Artola generous is here, and you ought to know, and look carefully at the evolutions of this data. And, no doubt, in the barrier of society, they do not show the firmness you express. But poverty and neglect are personal experience of life, and these comparisons are of no use. We must therefore mark our people, the degree of prosperity, and the ends which concern our political purposes. And that's why we say that those evolutions that mark poverty for us are not acceptable. You mentioned the claims mentioned by Egina, and you mentioned the system of social services, the strength of it. What progress has been made in the social service system during the past ten years? What's the evolution that's been here since testing the law? You have mentioned our difficulties to come to terms; for in order to develop the law of the Social Services, there was an agreement which was extremely important in 2015. Congresswoman Peña here, in this legislature, admitted the importance of this matter, the importance of that agreement. What happens next, when you're in every institution? That this arrangement has not been accomplished at all, and that you have no intention of making any progress in the system of social services. In this pandemia you have accompanied the third sector. The third sector has answered the necessary wants, but not the public system of our social services, in which you have invested none of them, not one of them in the whole pandemy, Mr. Urkullu. And we'll have difficulty getting the deals, but we'll get them elsewhere, we've got some very important things in this legislature, I've lived them myself, I've lived the peace attempt in 2019, not Mr. Audezia, because in that case the Socialist Party was completely absent. And we know how to make these agreements, but it's time to come to terms with us to the content, to correct the policies that are made, we have a political project for this country. And in that case, everyone has to leave... It is said here that I learned in this law: "dejars pelos en la Gather"; so we must all leave them. But often ye have asked for your affections, and we are not bound to hold them. We make agreements based on content. And, President Urkullu, we've started this session with the support of 21 congressmen. You started with 41. We'll end up with 21. You'll finish with 41. So you started with 41, and you ended up with 41... And I wanted to give Mr. Egiebar a last message about Autogobernu Poncia. And today you didn't want to talk too much about it, but only two little quotes, did you? You have a difficult role, and it's true that you're experienced; But sometimes it's hard things to do, and it's time for you to get down here and defend that national revolt your party made. But sometimes the attempts are sterile. The like had passed through the months of Mandel's, in the language of signs, and he tried to translate it. Reality is that there's a clear revolt. And based on this principle of reality, you said here that it must come... It was necessary to establish a compact with the state, with all due respect and firmness, and to accept this principle of reality. You know that's impossible. And I'm glad to have the data and the details of our campaign, the stupid-and the study. You used to say, on the march, where did we get down? He has shown a 'kisss' on a Basque march. (Applause) Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u34	That I haven't spoken much about auto-pilot? I think, I don't know very little, but the positions of both parties are clearly separated, in agreement. And what I have compared is our plan and your plan. And yours will be as firm as it is simple, but ours is much more accurate and compromised, because we both political parties have confessed to each other the right which each has to propose to each other. And I've read your program, and I know what it says. And ours, please read it, and then, with the other scheme, we've agreed with the Social Party in Madrid to see if a negotiation can be effected, along with Catalonia. That's our scheme. We haven't hidden it. And we know, and we know that the Social Party and Pedro Sánchez need their place, and that the relationship, compared to today, must be different, based on respect and superiority, for want of individuality, for guarantees... And, well, I see the hater, Podemos has also made his contribution. One will say it's left halfway or what I don't know... But there are plans, and we shall see what happens in this legislature. It's not paper, I think it's fair to be honest about this parliament. That's why we're considering the projects, that's what it looks like. To the hatredary... During the first round she said that we always run for a minority, don't we? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And my question is also very simple, but pure: What do you mean, that the euscal society has no criteria or maturity when we vote? I mean, we act for a minority, and our constituents don't have maturity? I think it would be well for all of us to apply a little democratic respect. We're not a patriot on the left. It's the same question as ever and it's my question: And where is the patriot on the left? Where's the patriot on the left? You hide it. Well, the name is no longer a patriotic left-handed, independentist. There's an evolution already there, but I told you the other day, I won't say that all the Militants in the EH Union are patriotic left-handed, but all the patriots on the left are called EH Collectors. Do you understand? And ye said of my age: When one was six, I was already here. And, well, different generations have gone by, and as they are independent in EH Collect, or those of the other political parties, and, after so many decades of years, we are almost younger than I, who have happened in this country, and who have suffered from living and suffering, I think, that it is time for us not to leave the patriotic on our left side of the EH Collector's shop to justify his past activity. It is very simple that what has happened in this country has happened to be independent in this country. There are certain cares that can't be justified and that must be explained. What's the matter with you on the project? Well, there was a great politician in this town... The project of building our nation is the patriotic left, the Union, and the rest of the syllogs have now come, after which, in the course of this period, there is nothing more to be wished for. And he said, with the example of the stone-maker, that a stone should be placed in the town square, and a stone of a hundred pounds, and a stone to be given to it by PNV; "We'll train and try with it" and "tak, get up." .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No, and the patriotic left comes, and with this "we, this stone, we raise more weight, ours at least 300." And yet, I think, the hell with Peru and old Mielcho Saralegi did not reach it. "No, no, we're always a bigger one." And we put the stone on it, and we'll raise 10 pounds. Hey, where's something else? Well, now, apart from the Economic concert, education and language and this and this and that, and we have to raise 200 pounds stone and, uh, tak, get up... Not a lot of pickings, but, uh, get up and get up... It has been years since, and the stone which the patriotic left quoted is in the same square. You mentioned the stone and the town and the moss, and there's a stone of three hundred kilos of moss. That's color-painted, ecological, feminism, rainbows, prisoners, etc.... It's over there! You didn't even shake the stone. Don't give me a lift, you haven't even been able to free me from the earth in national education. And that's the metaphor Arzalhin put on, and I think it's the one that cuts down some of you and the other's strategy, why up until now, I think, the Ithaxius Peru lifts up five thousand times a pound. That's a lot of tons of... But in the Institution of Nations they had this defect; and now they seem to have come to correct themselves, in the Institution of the Nation, in the Institution of Society, in order to secure the future of this people. Therefore, and in order to end, when we say that the person on the axis and on the watch, that's not today's improvisation, it hasn't occurred to us since summer, because COVID has appeared. There's a route here, a route. And it would be good to consider the place where the patriotic left has been in all these votives and debates in this Chamber, where, in his interference, all these things, were discussed and voted, until they arrived at the Communist Party of the Basque Country, who really began a debate on social matters in the name of the patriot on the left. It was them. It's been a few years, and that's why, when we say that people are on the axis and on the watchout, even in the exit. People are the key for the exit. I used to say: Let each one of us do his own, and each one of us his own. Don't we? I think we're coming out of this combine, political output, because I'm going to invite you to dinner. To start being an builder of opposition. Builder! Show him that you are capable of being an constructive opposition, why, instead of building it, if you continue to destroy it, relations will be cut off. And we've known each other here politically for a long time, and we know what is meant by introducing a Canadide, and then what the change in your direction means. Of course we have to discuss and negotiate, if you don't. What form, too, but with content. Now, if it's another thesis, that is to say, health and capital have crashed and we have to deal with all the policies out of here and we're going to use the parliamentary law, which is called "cámar de resonania," for the sake of helping or of bringing out what's in the street, with all right, but show that you can do it. Why else we can arrive at another conviction, and it is not the patriotic left-handed one that has not reached a constructive position based on conversation. And the dialogue is the tool of politics. And that must be admitted; it must be lived. I think old dynamics are still too heavy for you. And a word of advice to us, we shall have, but the old dynamics are very heavy, and I would say to you: leave behind out the old, sterile strategy, because the people, the real one, deserve it. A political project. We proclaimed, in the Chamber itself, the capacity, the political will, from the hands of the features indicated by the 'Scholars', the resolution, and humanity and humility. Those are our keys to get ahead of us. How? Well, applying reproach, what is commonly said of contempt, "corsponsabilid." And you've mentioned the words of Torreldia before. Here, well, Labo has also been mentioned here, Labo and Leone. We've sung this many times, but: "Without rest: in this chain we are all bound together with great force; The work of men and women is knowledge; the change of knowledge is the change of speech, the change of speech with nature has something to do with it, and to enter into contact with it. And rightly rooted up our forces, linking our roots to the ground... "I don't know. A farewell to those who form the government will be changed in this chapter, and I don't know how big it is. Be grateful to all, in the name of the parties, and in the name of the legislative party. And we shall present the news to the new ones, if so, even with the veterans, our work, our courage, our best, we offer to you to-day, from this law, and for the whole legislation. And even today, there's been talk about how many of us are here and we're not here. We're short of a parliamentary man today, and he's locked up, and he can't vote. So, Irune Hussi, he'll be watching television, and he'll be watching a good-bye. We know you'll have a vote, but we'll have that vote. Meanwhile, watch and live happily.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u35	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. The discussion is over. We'll take ten minutes to fix things up and I'll ring the bell at half a.m. It was seven o'clock in the afternoon and eighteen. At seven-thirty-two o'clock the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u36	Please sit down in your seats. We'll follow the meeting. Article 165.10 of the Rule will be a previewed vote. This is a vote according to article 97. It will be a precedent; the members of the legislature will be called by the name of names; that is to say, every member of the legislature, when its name is mentioned, will answer the name of one of the candidates, or declare that it is abdicated. Please specify the number. Four. The first secretary at the table has contacted the congressmen to vote for Mr. Alonsos Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u37	The vote was this. After the vote, the result was this: The votes he gave, 74; the supporters of Mr. Urkullu Renteria, 40;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-03.u38	So, Mr. Urkullu Renteria is elected president of Redsong. Congratulations, Mr. President! [[Applause]] Before the meeting is over, I'm telling you that the full staff meeting will be made in Guernica on September 5th, noon noon. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was seven o'clock in the afternoon and forty.
