ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the whole meeting. Before we go on the subject list, I remind you that 35 lords and ladies have inherited the vote. First point in theme list: "The understanding of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, made on the compatibility condition of the Basque Administration of Women in the Council. The controversy and final deliberation of the Constitution, and the design of the members of that council, may be so. Do any of the members of the board want to speak in support of the judgment or against it? That's all we're going to vote for. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 39; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 73; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.1,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u1	So the judgment has been accepted. When we have approved of the election, we will proceed to the procedure of naming the members of the Basque Organization of the Women's Office. We'll open a turn to receive parlament groups, following the article in 234.6 of the Chamber Rule. Is there a team here who wants to speak, say something? According to Article 96.3.b of the Rule, the choice will be made by tickets. However, considering there is no alternative candidate, I propose to make the nomination without vote. Does any member of the legislature object to that? No? Therefore, it is accepted with assent. And, therefore, these will be appointed to agree to the Office of the Basque Office of Women. Arzido Lopek, María Guijarro Caballos, Olópez, Oninzze Amzaga Bilbao, Mireia Zarare Agarre, Laura Garrido Könr. Second point on the subject list: "To discuss first the American popular team-Ciudadans as a parlamentary group of parlamental companies for small and middle companies, individual companies, and 2020 of professional financial aid. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The Basque Popular Group-Ciudados has the word. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and remove initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u2	Good morning. Egun on. President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. Good. I'll be brief. There is, in connection with this initiative, an agreement reached by this group with the parliamentary majority, with the groups that support the Government: with the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group. Good. We put forward this initiative, this non-legislative proposal, for its urgent debate in plenary, on amending the financial programme for small and medium-sized enterprises, individual enterprises and self-employed professionals by 2020. We wanted to give more guarantees, we wanted these aids, this programme, to be extended, because of the conditions in which we live: the second wave of the pandemic, companies with problems, entrepreneurs and self-employed people with problems in this regard. And we were, of course, asking for the urgent procedure, so that we could adopt such an initiative before the end of the year. We understood and recalled that the Basque Government, by Decree 50/2020, in March, approved the programme of financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises, individual entrepreneurs and self-employed professionals, by 2020, in order to respond to the economic impact, the first economic impact, of the covid-19. This financial support programme was then provided with a maximum of EUR 500 million, in loans to be formalised by companies, and was aimed at meeting the liquidity and circulation financing needs of six months. The Order of 1 April 2020 approved the call, the setting of the conditions for such credits, and established Elkargi as a mutual guarantee partner, and the financial partners were also established. It was soon seen that the projections had been short, as the demand for financing, through the collaborating entities, which were making SMEs, self-employed, entrepreneurial people... in April and May of that year exceeded the initial forecast. And as a result of this demand, by Decree 67/2020, it was, inter alia, necessary to increase the volume of funding from EUR 500 million to EUR 1 billion, and to increase the guaranteed amount from 100 million to 150 million. Good. In the current situation, and having suffered or being suffering the second wave of the pandemic, with the state of declared alarm, with restrictions, with restrictions in the activity, agreed by the Basque Government... Today is the day to find out what are the new restrictions or the new situation, which directly affects many people, but, above all, many sectors and also to... directly to many sectors of business, industrial, autonomous, but also indirectly to many, to many others, important... with falling orders, very important drop in orders and billing in many of these cases, with an equally important impact of this crisis on the Basque productive fabric. This is going to be extended, we understand that it is going to be extended and deepened over time, and we understood that it was necessary to adopt such an initiative and to carry out the amendments to those decrees or to adopt other new decrees, under the terms of the loans endorsed by Elkargi, through that programme, in order to make them more flexible, in order to avoid the occurrence of irreversible complicated situations, to the extent possible, for those SMEs, for those self-employed, for those entrepreneurs, for those entrepreneurs. This makes it necessary, among other things, to understand – and therefore the urgency and therefore the initiative among other things – to modify the basis for extending the months for which funding can be requested, as well as to value the request not only for structural expenditure, but also for investment, under the conditions deemed appropriate. It is also necessary to extend the periods of default and the periods of repayment of loans, among other issues, as has already been done in Spain, at the national level, with loans endorsed by the ICO, by the Institute of Official Credit, which, among other amendments, which we requested and what we requested in this initiative, has extended the period of default, from one to two years, and the period of repayment, from five to eight years. So our intention was to help the government, also as a Parliament. And as a social fabric that we are and that we want it also to be and to drag the economic possibilities towards those who need it, we want the Basque Government to move as well. Looks like you're willing. And, in fact, that... we salute that attitude. Let him move and do the... clear up, don't you? panoramas. And, in that sense, we had put forward a proposal not for clear law, to modify the basis and conditions of the programme of financial support for SMEs and self-employed people on the occasion of the covid-19, loans endorsed by the Elkargi, in order to give this greater flexibility to the productive fabric. We were already contemplating a number of aspects, which are good, which, finally and generally, have been included in the transaction: the extension of the concession period beyond 2020; issues relating to expenditure and financing; the extension of the period of lack of loans to two years, which has to do with the extension of the repayment of loans at least eight years, as was the case with the ICO guarantees. Good. And all those issues that affect funding, extension, further development of such programmes. And, well, we understood, and so did most of... plus all the groups, the ones that have amended, that it was necessary to support SMEs, companies... We need entrepreneurs, the self-employed, the entrepreneurs. We must preserve its activity, of course, with all our possible forces and with all the economic and financial forces that can be applied. And this is the time, moreover, to do so, right?, we must help to keep them functioning and with social capacity, with contracting capacity, with investment capacity; we must keep them for when the crisis passes. That is, that is the fundamental element. And this initiative, therefore, will approve what it will bring. This initiative will give confidence, will give security, will also require instruments, will have to analyse how it has been done in 2020 and will have to rely on flexibility as well as instruments that are of course effective and that meet the needs. And we will have to analyze the proposals, the requests and, well, and work on those keys. We present this initiative – which coincides with the concern that entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, self-employed people, entrepreneurs, their associations...– This initiative, moreover, was coincidental, recently, with the statements of this same Monday, in a Basque newspaper, by the president of Elkargi, to a Gipuzcoan medium. The president said... In addition, Mr. Josu Sánchez was very clear and graphic when asked, is Elkargi negotiating with his Celsa revalidists and Basque Government to follow the steps of the ICO and sweeten the conditions of the covid-19 line? And he answered that he was talking, and he said, mainly, with Celsa, that it is the Spanish Rebuilding Company, and he said that he manages European funds through the IDF; we depend a lot on Europe, and that's true, isn't it? There are high areas in which we do not influence and I trust that we will have the same conditions as recently announced by the ICO: two years of lack and eight years of time; it would have to be so, and we have time. I'd like it to be settled in January. Well, we have come with our initiative to contribute, to create the conditions for it to be resolved in January, haven't we? And, in addition, to do so by urging the Basque Government. The President of Elkargi said that they are now more in contact with Celsa, but it is clear that the fundamental element is both; it is Celsa and it is the Basque Government. And that is, of course, our confidence, and it confirms to us the opportunity of the initiative and the opportunity of the agreement reached with other groups that is reflected in the compromise amendment. We want to say that we have reached an agreement on this issue, saying that "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to approve, for the next financial year 2021, a new programme of financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises, for individual entrepreneurs and self-employed professionals, to establish new conditions for access to loans, extending, inter alia, the period of their lack, from one to two years, as well as the period for their return, from five to eight years, and to create a specific line of financial support for the sectors most affected by the pandemic caused by covid-19". In short, it is also a fundamental element, which allows access under these same conditions, two years, eight years, to the beneficiaries of the programme in force this year 2020. We believe that this is an important agreement, which will make the Government have to schedule, reprogram, modify, update, that is, and continue to look to SMEs, the self-employed, the entrepreneurial people, in that sense to preserve them, by the time we get out of the crisis and maintain those issues. I must also thank the entire amendment of the EH Bildu Group. It was an amendment, of course, which incorporated the fundamental element of the petitions. I must also say that, well, the first point is part of parliamentary activity, that is, it is a request for documented information. My group is also processing it, for the purpose of updating information that this parliamentary group requested at the end of the work of the Permanent Chamber, data have been given and must now be much more up-to-date. I think it goes that way, and that, in fact, the groups can request it. But, of course, it is constructive..., in the same way as extending the economic quantities; well, we trust that the government will apply quantities and describe real and realistic quantities, in relation to what is happening. That is to say, we have avoided putting a quantity, because more is the agreement to extend and secure the conditions, and also to extend it to 2021, which is a fundamental element; but, well, I invite Mr Casanova to join the agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Casanova, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u4	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. Yes, Mr. Barrio, it's our intention to join the agreement because we think it's a good deal. but in general our first impression is positive. Even when we saw the corrections of the parties that are supporting me, we realized it would be possible for us to make an agreement. Anyway, at the end of my speech, I'm gonna ask for a light before we define the feeling of our vote. It's true that the health crisis created by the covida has been primary, but it's not a less vulnerable situation in economic form. Compared with other crisis, we believe it must be remarked that the answer given by the governments of the world has been different, that the embeze and the frame have been different. Governments, yes, have taken care to give them an answer. Turning aside the paradigm of Liberalism and right-hand, they found that it was the time of government, that it was the time of the States, that it was the time of public politics, and they answered that it was the time of public policy. I'll make a point here in the crisis, in general, both in the sanitary and social dimension, that government has saved us, that there have been public services, and that there have often been public, social and unequivocally workers, such as washings, guards, supermarket employees, that is to say, public and collective. And I think that's one of the great consequences and lessons that have come from this crisis. And I remember, with the paper of public assistance so important, when taxes come to pay for those public aids, people must understand what taxes are for. That's what taxes are to be done, taxes are to save our lives, taxes are to save our economy. So, those who support public and public interference in this case, I believe that we must all admit that the right policy must afterwards be in front of them. Compared to the management of the Paradigma crisis in 2008, the debt's totem pole has been removed, the public debt and the defense public debts have been abandoned by totems, and the governments have understood that their time was their own, and that there was no future without their answers. Governments have mainly answered this crisis with three kinds of schema or mechanism, and independently of other aids. The first is the mechanism of protecting employments, which in the Spanish Common-wealth are called ERTE, but which also exist in other European countries with their proper name and typeology. The second instrument has been the ransom funds. And last week, we talked about 100,000 millions of German, 10,000 millions of Spanish states, and we talked about zero million rescue jobs. And the third very important line has been the soft lines of loans, jointized lines, convenience to borrow, provided with public protection. The Spanish state places them on the table at different intervals, driven by ICO, or released 100,000 euros. France is 3000,000 dollars, the United Kingdom is 330,000 billion euros, and Germany, not the largest quantity, 500,000 dollars. With respect to the raw internal product, Germany is only with the chimpanzee in the quantities, and in the relative effort he has placed the largest quantity of quantity at the table, 16% of his raw internal product, while those hundred million of the Spanish state are only 10 percent. Other funds have been added to protect rescue funds and investments, and so on. But these facts lay on the table the dimensions of the effort made by different governments. And again, when the companies have need of them, there must be governments. But we must also consider that, in a short time, we must prepare our proposals in a short time, to support the expenses made by the attorney. The Spanish state, as we said, announced, on March 17th, the fund of 100,000 million, and a few lines of air. And then every month he's checked out a few gaps, through the ICO High and four different parts. EAE, 31 March, first proposed a similar system by 500 million associations, and the necessity of a short term was intended to finance the "financición de circulante." On May 19th and seeing that the amount was short, 500 million was announced, and besides, a reservation was made from these loans for autonomous workers, 150 million. The terms were flexible, and the funk consumed part of the credit cost, and we thought it was a good measure. And so we were asked to open it at the same time, seeing that the demand was beyond the offer, we asked it to be opened, and to-day we shall take advantage of it to ask for this opening. In the July the union had already announced that 800 million were already distributed in July, and that there were $150,000 supported employments by these loans. Most of them had been requested from service, service, and guest, but the largest amount had gone to the industry, though fewer loans were borrowed, because the quantities were larger, and 40 percent of them had been watching the industry. We thought this measure was fine and the measurements worked. And now it was our intention to make a contribution to the other proposition, as described by PPk, to improve the proposition or original planning, and, well, to a little improvement in so many changes. When we read the original bill, it seemed appropriate. In the Spanish state there has already been any such dispositions of elasticity. The payment time has gone on, and even the term of absence has been prolonged. And we thought that was right, but it came to us... In the first place, though our first answer or the first analysis had not been properly applied to assent, we thought a pair of shades might be made, and Mr. Barrio mentioned: First, belonging to transparency. And it is true that such a balance and such information can be demanded by a common parlamentary request. But we thought that motu proprio government should bring us this kind of contribution, when a program is over, or when a program comes to an influencing point, because it is inevitable that a bullet is fired and how it worked, what a sector the benefit has been, how many requests have been made and as many information as possible. And we know that this can be requested with the format of information, but we thought it important to ask the government to send it directly to the teams. We cannot forget that in May the government, in a second decree, added 500 million more on the page of the Community's finances, also mentioned it, and changed the article, the 10th article, in order to enter a point, which required Collegary, looking at the transparency, to give us a permanent information about it. And so we, too, require the same transparency in the eyes of the whole community. The second, our second borrowing, was either prolonging the program or making a new program for 2021, I don't know, because the needs are still there. When I was preparing this, I thought of an anecdote, of what happened to all of us, and when the friends first started in April they sent memeeks-and the Christmas kisses-and not? Well, what you said in April, well, it looked as if it was very negative to think we'd take our kisses with Santa Claus or with the snowflakes, but Christmas has arrived and we'll bring snowflakes in these conditions because we'll have Christmas too. And what it means is, no doubt, that this is longer than we expected, and therefore the answers and means of support must be extended. We plan 500 million, we don't know if the balance is too small or too much, but we thought it's proportional to the resources we'd consume in the first stage. And we think it's better to hit the top, because this isn't the money on the table, it's the cash or, but it's the abals, so even though they're very fat quantities, then they're much more maniable from a budget point of view, and we thought that this was the right thing to plan, well, that quantity and new or new program. Eta, gero, nire zalantza, éta eskatzen dut urrengo interbentzioetan mozioa edo erdibidekoa adotu duten taldeek argitzea... Hemen, in the last paragraph, it is proposed that access to these new conditions be made possible to the beneficiaries of the programme in force in 2020. I would like to understand that what is proposed is that the conditions of this 2021 programme will apply retroactively to those who are already in possession or are enjoying one of these credits. I want to understand it this way, and it is not... – in the case of Mr Barrio, I understand that it is clear that it is not so – but that it means that people who have a credit will not be able to access a new credit for this program under those conditions, maintaining the current conditions. I understand that what he proposes is retroactivity in the flexibility of conditions. And if that makes it clear to me that it is in that sense, then the compromise will count on our vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u6	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning to all. We agree with this initiative the Popular Party has represented, both the fundamental and the entire initiative. It is clear that our corporations need finances in order to face this situation, and, more or less, they must have tools to keep them in front of their position. Then, joining it, we have no doubt that it must be there, and therefore we have made a great effort to present the total amendment to it, but, of course, we have made an effort to get to a bargain, which was important. It was important that I come to an agreement, and fortunately I heard Mr. Casanova's words. That means that we are all in the same direction, and that too seems to me to be very positive. The bottom line, I think, is clear: it is the need to equip our companies, especially the medium and small, the self-employed and the entrepreneurs, with the aim of ensuring that the productive fabric in Euskadi suffers, in the least possible way, the effects of this health crisis, which is prolonging over time and which is hitting us very severely. Perhaps it is not a question of innovating, but, precisely, of developing the instruments that we equip our companies with, improving them and adapting them to this new reality, also in the light of the evolution of the pandemic and the situation we are experiencing. In the face of an exceptional situation, exceptional measures are also required, measures that have worked in this Government from different areas, in order to provide useful tools, according to a situation to date unknown. In circumstances where markets panic, consumption and demand behave so unevenly and the future is so difficult to predict, that it only touches on finding the right keys to cover the needs that move from the different sectors. Sectors that, on the other hand, are tremendously different from each other, with different needs and demands between them. And there, in the common tools, is where we can find solutions based on what has already been built, and also on the best adaptation of the measures approved by the Basque Government a few months ago. Of course, we agree with the original proposal on the need to seek and increase new lines of financing for our companies. If I may, with the amendment to the whole of the groups that we support to the Government, we wanted to clarify what we originally consider to be a correct request. There was a possibility of doing so, and in discussions with the Government we wanted to do so. And that has also resulted in that compromise agreement, which, I repeat, I consider to be of great relevance. We believe that it is very necessary for a new programme of financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises, individual entrepreneurs and self-employed professionals to be approved in the next financial year, 2021. A programme to provide liquidity and, in turn, viability and the future, both for companies and for the specific projects they want to develop. A programme which establishes new conditions for access to loans, extending, among other things, the period of their lack, from one to two years. It is a measure that certainly gives financial relief and a prudent margin to start amortising the amounts requested; as well as the deadline for its reinstatement, which would become five to eight years, a temporary margin that almost doubles the current one. As we also consider it necessary to create a specific line of financial support for certain sectors, the most punished because of this pandemic, thus focusing on companies and projects that are currently experiencing the worst and therefore need more of this kind of tools and aid. Moreover, it allows access to these new conditions for the beneficiaries of the programme in force this year 2020, without closing the gap to those who have already requested it within the funding programmes already under way. I asked Mr Casanova for clarification, and I have to say – and I hope this clarification will help you – that this is a new programme; it is not an extension of the previous one. Therefore, what has been intended, with this paragraph, is to give those companies that have already accepted the programme that is currently in force, the possibility to do so in this next programme that can be launched. That is to say, it does not apply retroactively, but as a new programme it allows those who welcomed themselves in the previous one to be able to welcome themselves, without closing the door to them, and thus prolonging, in this way, the possibility of taking advantage of it. In short, what it is about is that we put the tools that are available to us so that our social, economic and industrial fabric overcomes this situation in which it is necessary to compete with all administrations and with all and all... I hope with this, Mr Casanova, that you have been able to clarify your doubts and, of course, as Mr Barrio has done, I invite the political groups to join this initiative, this compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u7	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, congressmen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Go ahead and as a first thought: this government, since the beginning of this pandemic, has always been accompanying and assisting small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people, who have unfortunately been the most able to acknowledge the effects this situation has been having. This virus has hit our productive tissue hard and the consequences are being tougher than originally predicted, back in March. No one was prepared and no one knows how far this situation will go. There is uncertainty, but we are certain that the Basque Executive will continue to cover and cater for the needs of all companies in the new scenarios that may arise. The instrument on which we are debating today, the 2020 funding line, adopted in March, has proved to be effective for the objective it pursued, which was nothing other than to meet the liquidity tensions of companies, which, being profitable, had experienced a sharp fall in their portfolios or were at risk of being insolvent. The aim, therefore, was to ensure the solvency of viable companies, and this has been achieved. But the mention of the effectiveness of this measure is not something that this Member of Parliament thinks, which, too, is something I have heard the President of Elkargi, Josu Sánchez, who has said on several occasions that "these endorsements have proved to be a fundamental pillar for the Basque productive fabric". But, as I pointed out earlier, it is clear that the crisis is hitting us intensely and that administrations will also need to adapt their aid lines to each scenario. And that is precisely what this Government is committed to and which it will develop later on. First, I stop at the original initiative that the People-Citizens Group has brought us today. Under the general formula of urging the Basque Government to change the basis and conditions of the programme in order to provide greater flexibility in access to the programme – it is not written like this, but that is what is understandable – the initiative makes several demands – and I read literally, although they have already been mentioned above –: the extension of the concession period to be able to apply for funding beyond 2020; the extension of the months for which funding can be requested, exceeding the current six; the extension of the loan shortfall period to two years; the extension of the loan repayment period, at least to eight years; and the extension of the maximum amount of funding, if necessary, in the light of developments in demand. This programme, approved by Decree 50/2020 of 31 March, as Mr Barrio mentioned – and remarcated on 31 March, since it was less than 15 days before the state of alarm – had as its objective to implement from the public institutions certain extraordinary measures, aimed at mitigating the damage caused by the health crisis in the business fabric of Euskadi; to cover the fixed costs of the structure of the companies, so that the Basque business fabric is not damaged. Therefore, when we say that we must be close to companies, we do, and this is one more example of this. The financial support programme for 2020 is equipped with a maximum of EUR 1 billion in loans to be formalised – as already mentioned here, 500 plus the subsequent 500 additional ones. It is important that it seems to be sufficient – and Elkargi says so too – to analyse the financial situation of all the thousands of projects they have managed and the complementarity with other products on the market. We can say, in the light of the data, that it has been a successful formula in public-private collaboration. As regards the final recipients of the programme – made up of the group of small and medium-sized enterprises, individual entrepreneurs and self-employed professionals – this action takes into account their importance in the business fabric, their implications for the whole productive activity and their reduced relative capacity to access wholesale financing markets, with the traditional lines of credit institutions. And thanks to this programme, access to finance has been given to this group, injecting €736 million – dated 4 December – and granting mainly guarantees to small companies, responding to the difficult situation that companies in our environment are going through following the crisis of covid-19, and which has been key and decisive for the maintenance of employment. Possibility that, in times of crisis like the current one, business projects have continuity is part of our DNA. It is a matter of justice, at this point and in this debate, to thank Elkargi and all the financial institutions operating in Euskadi, for their great work and speed in the implementation of this covid fund. In Elkargi, after enabling the digital platform, in a few days more than 13,000 applications were received, which have involved placing 736 million euros on the market, and which, in response to urgent liquidity needs, has contributed to the maintenance of more than 160,000 jobs. Therefore, from here, as a member of the Basque Nationalist group, I would like to thank all the actors who have participated in making this formula promoted by the Basque Government efficient and effective, achieving its goal successfully. Now is the time to re-evaluate this decree and extend it to 2021, to refinance small and medium-sized enterprises, individual and self-employed entrepreneurs, since, unfortunately, the pandemic has not given us a break. Thus, from our group, we propose to the Basque Government to approve for the next financial year 2021 a new programme of financial support, establishing new conditions for access to loans, extending, among other things, the period of deficiency – so that companies have up to two years to repay loans – or also extending the maturity of loans, up to eight years of the current five. The flexibility of these measures is also in line with what EH Bildu requested in his amendment and the People-Citizens Group in its original initiative, hence our transactional. In the amendment we have tabled together with the Socialist Party and in the compromise with the People-Citizens Group, we also call on the Basque Government to create a specific line of financial support for the sectors most affected by the pandemic, and to make it possible to access these new conditions to the benefits of the programme in force this year 2020. And there is a little response to Mr Casanova, that this programme will include those who have applied for this aid in 2020. Even if it is a new program, it will integrate them in 2021, with the new conditions more flexible. In short, we propose to the Basque Government the adoption of a new financial programme for the financial year 2021, extending the periods of deficiency and amortization, to provide greater flexibility in access to it, and to create a specific line of financial support for the sectors most affected by the pandemic. As long as this situation continues over time, many businesses and self-employed people may find it more difficult to meet their payment commitments within the originally set deadlines. It is therefore also important that these new conditions can be applied to those who benefited from this programme in 2020. Finally, I would like to thank all the parties that are going to support our amendment, EH Bilduren jarrera ere eskertzekoa da, and also those with whom we have asked to have sex, particularly with Mr Barrio and the People's GroupCitizens, since we believe that financial support for this group is fundamental and key to supporting our entrepreneurs, SMEs and self-employed people, so relevant in our business fabric. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Passing to the non-correcting teams, it's Misto's turn. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Since Vox we will not abound too much in what we have already known and what we have so many times commented here over the last few months: the situation in SMEs and also in large companies is really difficult. Political currents remain attached to this circumstance, and it is normal for macroeconomic data to fall like that experienced in this year 2020, and which have never been given in times of peace. It is true, as the representative of EAJ-PNV said, that aid and loans for SMEs and self-employed people have been approved, but we would ask the government from Vox not to make access to them so difficult. The bureaucratic barriers to their access, in many cases, are a terrible obstacle, bearing in mind that many self-employed people are older people, who do not have the capacity for all the paperwork they are asked to do. Therefore, I must say that the initiative that the People's Party-Citizens and the compromise signed today is an urgent one. And it is because we must help through all the channels that are necessary. To help not only is to give money; it is also to relax, extend the deadlines and limit the reality of the programme to the uncertainty of this crisis, which has hit us with two waves, but which, in fact, can bring much more. For this reason, we consider that, although all the aid is limited, all are grateful and all are good. In Vox we have proposed a battery of measurements in several channels that overlap with this one that we are discussing today. What is clear to us is that if we all support these small initiatives and agree for the benefit of our society, interest will ultimately be the overall benefit. Therefore, today we will approve the initiative they have brought to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u11	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u12	Well, I have just said, first of all, that we are going to vote in favour of the compromise between the Government and the People's Party or the parties that support the Government. But we would like to reflect on this instrument and on the weaknesses that, from our parliamentary group, we perceive that they have these credit instruments in which the administration takes the risk. We believe that companies that are about to go to competition or are going through serious financial difficulties come to these credit systems, and they can sign anything. And we also believe that the risk assessment that financial institutions can establish, using euphemism, can be quite lax, if ultimately the risk is assumed by the Administration. And, in this sense, and more so in the current situation that we are living and listening to very specific sectors that are going through it frankly wrong, we can conclude that what is requested – and, for example, the hoteliers mentioned it – is not so much financing systems by assuming debt or increasing their debt ratios, but mechanisms that allow for the adaptation to the new circumstances, sectoral plans, planned intervention by the public sector, either in the form of direct subsidies or also direct intervention by the Administration by participating in the companies themselves. We firmly believe that, if we want to rescue the business fabric, the public interest would be better focused, as I said, by taking part in certain sectors, according to a thought-provoked plan. If, on the contrary, we want to rescue companies, subsidies are the mechanism that would cover the costs that companies have had to bear, as a result of the restrictions resulting from the pandemic; to burden them with debt, when they have no income or may not have it, is to increase rapidly the chances of reaching financial crises or credit crises. But we already know that one of the main elements in putting this type of financing instrument in place for companies with the backing of administrations is, basically, the principle of budgetary balance, which prevails over any other consideration. As I said, public administration credits are not, in our view, the priority instrument, not even, of course, the instrument that will draw businesses or citizens as a whole from the crisis situation in which they find themselves in economic terms. We believe that it will encourage the banking sector to formalise or materialise credits, since, as I said at the beginning of the intervention, the risk will be borne by the Administration. More debt for businesses, shared risk on the part of the public administration: bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. In any event, I would also like to say that our perspective on the elements which, in our view, should lead to any debate on intervention or public policy on our productive fabric should be or should be based on two very specific points, taking into account the situation of economic contraction, the disruption of global value chains and the contraction of domestic demand: Firstly, we believe that interventions should be designed based on a diagnosis of the existing productive tissue. The fact that these credit aids are given without analysis and reflection as to which companies are given to them seems to us to be a risk. Also of the characteristics and conditions of the value chain in which these companies are inserted and of the international markets, whose demand these same companies work, to consider which are given and which are not given these credits endorsed by the Administration. And then, secondly, the adequacy of the different public policy instruments intended for the productive fabric, whether for its internationalization, for the diversification of its products or other initiatives, such as supplier development plans, when it comes to supporting a value chain with a presence in our territory, as well as the institutionality that this technical support should develop or mediate the funding lines. The combination of these two elements must be synthesized into strategic, comprehensive planning at different administrative levels and territorial scales. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza, we believe that credit guarantees or grant lines are one more tool, not the only one and not necessarily, as I said, the priority, to address processes of adapting companies to the current situation. In any case, we firmly believe that these lines of funding, grant or advice should, as a rule, respond to a specific strategy, a diagnosis of profitability or sources of employment. In other words, it would also have been interesting to ask, although we believe that it would make it difficult for certain companies to access these credits, whether to incorporate elements of job maintenance or, at least, to make a plan to draw up the possibilities of generating employment for companies receiving these credits with the approval of the Administration. And, on the other hand – and it was said before, in the intervention by Mr Casanova – this also involves a reflection on fiscal policy. Because, in the end, the Administration assumes, with great effort, the burden of this type of investment to maintain productive investment in the country, but these proposals are made by political formations that then, when we have to value reforms of the tax structure, oppose in a consistent way to increase tax rates or tax rates to the highest charges, to the most powerful people in this country, and also the corporation tax for large corporations. And, in this sense, we believe that it is quite cynical and quite contradictory, and then pretend to socialize the losses of the companies, not to assume that, in turn, there has to be a co-responsibility on the part of those companies, when in periods of profit and goodness they should contribute much more to the Administration than they contribute. In conclusion, we will support the transactional, basically, because, well, it incorporates to Elkargi the elements and requirements that are already established today in the ICO, as was well said in the first intervention of the spokesman of the People's Party. And, in this sense, this instrument seems appropriate to us, but not, I say, the priority or, of course, the one necessary to increase economic recovery in this country and to bring business forward, despite this, we will support the initiative, because we believe that, at a time like the current one, every instrument is useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u13	Thank you, Mr. Soto. We're going over to the answering shift. "Essalka Populara-Ciudadnos's representative from there."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u14	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. With your permission, from the seat, to first of all thank the people-citizens from the Group of the European People's Party for their contribution, and also Mr Soto for his support, and Mrs Martínez, on this subject. As I said earlier in Parliament, it is about giving confidence and security to self-employed SMEs and entrepreneurs. Indeed, in the doubt regarding the last paragraph, access to these new conditions to the beneficiaries of the programme in force this year 2020, to the beneficiaries, that is, not to the new beneficiaries, to the new beneficiaries, to the previous ones, to all the beneficiaries; we believe that this has to be the case, it is logical, in relation to the maintenance, sustainability, of the programme. And, simply, Mr. Soto, I also agree that we have to... the elements have to be controlled. It must be used, but it must also be used at times like this for all operators and collaborating entities; 15 were before, the ones that have to be. And that the Administration will, of course, control that the functioning of the collaborating actors is the right one. That is a fundamental element, for the sake of the management of public money. The partners and the beneficiaries. Control is basic, and in that sense, we have no doubt that it will be one of the conditions for the action of the Administration and Elkargi, indirectly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u15	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Gather the EH team representative, Mr. Casanova. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u16	Yes, from the chair, if you'll excuse me. Well, given the clarifications to the doubt I had, then, I would like to confirm the vote in favour of the proposal, although a specific amount is not detailed. And in this kind of case we always like to know what we're talking about; but, well, we're going to give a vote of confidence, because, as a minor evil, we already have that flexibility that will come very well to the people who have contracted these credits and who are people who, really, have done it because they were in a hurry and who, at that time of rush, have had this oxygen ball. And to the representative of Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza, I have to say that, well, today we have focused on this instrument which, of course, is not the only one, that there are others. We have proposed that there are global schemes that are following the states, and it is true that, if we make the translation to the Basque Autonomous Community, then those global schemes have not been applied here as such; if we talk about rescue plans, there has been no rescue plans here; if we talk about capital injection, there has been no capital injection here; if we talk about direct aid, there has been, in our opinion, insufficient, and if we talk about ERTE, because the ERTE have assumed them by the state and here a small supplement has been approved late, bad, and that in many cases has not yet arrived. But, well, it just happens that we're talking about the last of the aspects that is that of the endorsements, and it's where things have been done in a reasonable way, perhaps, not perfect, but reasonably good. And, as I said before, we are going to do support, with a series of improvements that are going to give oxygen, and it is true that this instrument does not work as well for a bar, for example, as for an industry: for a bar we would give priority – or for a small business – to direct aid that does not involve a mortgage, literally, but for the industries, for the need for short-term financing, to have easy access to credit, especially at the time when, as you said, the value chain, the productive chain, payments, sales, stocks were accumulated, so at the time it was an oxygen balloon. And we believe that if these circumstances are maintained, the offer should also be maintained. Eta azken kontu bat. I think we do not include this in our amendment, but I think it is also important to monitor the way in which banks distribute these credits, in order to try to avoid something that has been reported to be taking place in other cases, such as refinancing operations for earlier loans, which they would do would be to transfer the risk that the banks had assumed with previous credits, to refine it on account of this type of credit, Elkargi or ICO, and to transfer, in some way, the risk assumed by the bank to the public sector. So it is a matter that will have to be on top of it, in order for the conditions of this funding offer to be strictly complied with. And no more, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u17	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mr. Aziza. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u18	Yeah. Thank you, ma'am. One, and in a short time, a vote of thanks to all the teams, isn't it? On the other day, from the Social Party, from the Basque Socialist Party, we mentioned that it was necessary for us to get to great agreements at that moment. I believe that the appeal made a few days ago by the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra, to the extent that we thought it necessary to do so in order to obtain broad agreements and support from all the parliamentary groups in order to overcome this crisis and to deal with the situation that is ahead, I believe that what we have done today, the approach exercise, okay, which we have done today, is a good example for us to continue to practice in the future. I believe that the best solution for overcoming this crisis is precisely that, it is the hand stretched out, it is flexibility, it is the approach of positions, it is dialogue and, above all, it is agreement. I believe that, with the agreement we have reached today, we are giving a great example that unity, of course, makes us stronger and, without a doubt, allows our citizens to equip themselves with tools to overcome a situation, which, of course, is tremendously difficult for all and for all. Por lo dot, thank you, everyone. And this again, in other days, in other times, although our differences are always on the table, whether it is repeated again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u19	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I've got to thank you for being like this before, or else I don't see you any more... thank all the teams you're going to protect our middle course for your behavior. And Mr. Barrio and the Popular-Chapananos, the middle-class agreement. Because, as long as this situation is prolonged over time, as I said before, many businesses and self-employed people will continue to face difficulties in meeting their payment commitments within the originally set deadlines. And there we must be supporting them from the institutions. That has been, is and will be our commitment, that of the Basque Nationalist Party. We'll all get it, that's the example of the neighborhood we always say. And for that purpose, the new program that we brought here, which is more flexible for 2021, and those who participated in the program 2020, so they can integrate it. Just thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Mrs Martínnez will not speak. Together Podemos-Bezzerzik, from there. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u22	Yeah. Well, I have to reiterate a little what I was commenting on in my first speech, and say that we would have liked to be talking, at the moment, about other instruments that the Basque Government could put in place, such as participation in companies directly and conditioning the maintenance of employment, or, failing that, also direct subsidies to companies, and not sustained or pooled credit guarantees, with respect to debt, by the Administration. In any case, this is one more instrument, which we believe, at a time of economic crisis such as the one we are experiencing, will well come to the economic sectors that request it. But it must be said that, fundamentally, this, beyond the economic sectors that are directly benefited, of course, indirectly, benefits substantially the banking and financial sectors, which are certainly, without excessive control over the granting of these credits, going to make use of them. And, on the other hand, we also see that these instruments, as far as possible, the Basque Government always has to support them in certain strategic plans, which allow us to know and evaluate which companies are given these elements and tools, so that they are not empty public resources, that they end up in a broken bag and that they do not encourage the generation of employment in the country. And, on the other hand, I should simply like to thank the opportunity to reach agreements on such matters, which, if implemented by the Basque Government, will benefit very broad sectors of society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u23	Thank you, Mr. Soto. End of discussion, we're going to vote for the half-correction signed by Basque Populara-Ciudadans, Basque Socialists, and Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes at the meeting, 40; the votes given, 75; the opponents 75; the opponents are 0,0,0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u24	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "The Moment, introduced by the members of the CORA CORA CENTERO, about the income and the future of SHESA's career. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Otero, it's your word to introduce and take over the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u25	Yes, good morning, everyone. Mr Aguire was telling me from the EAJ bank, when we last had a motion, that he had a feeling in some way of motion, that there is always a déjà vu moment, isn't there? For, in the end, the argument is more or less repeated: first, the discussion of the Government, when it is here or there the discussion of the groups. And we are in danger of being this déjà vu again, because not only from an interpelation, but because in the former law we have brought or brought with us several other such undertakings as these, very similar, or very similar. Anyway, I think we'll make an attempt... There are, I think, some novices who have been very noisy this week, and who enter this discussion perfectly. And I'll try to keep on trying to do this, because I've got a feeling that, one day, the way EAJ fell off his horse and that his position, well, in a way, will lead him right as he had been for a long time, right? I would like to say, and I said the other day, that we should always look at the context when we're talking about energy, because we're in a state of climatical emergency, accepted here by the previous hiccups, which is what compels us to believe, at least, that the European Union is in that almost all the world. At least, we're going to make a rapid, survival transition from the consumption of fossil resources. And our situation in the Basque Country is, specifically, a state of Araba, Biscaia, and Gipuzia, especially dramatic, because it's only 8% of the energy we consume the number of our latest productions. And that, for the last decade, was that way. And it'll have a bit to do with where different governments have turned public investments in this decade, wouldn't it? There has been another reflection, as it is logical, because, in the end, what energy we consume, such CO. 2 We have sheds, and there hasn't been hardly or hasn't been any progress in the battle around climate change in the whole decade, hasn't there? Data is similar, 19-20 million tons CO 2 we're back for years, and all of us know that Europe has already put on itself very ambitious aspirations, to the downfall of 60%, to the 1990s. So the job we've got to do is terrible, it's great. And, well, before Hidrocarros de Euscadin and Viura and Armentia II, I wanted to say a couple of things about this discussion, which EAJ, when we bring in this discussion of gas, always brings in a couple of traps or two wrong questions, don't it? And we're told that, Mr. Grivores, you will say again that we need the huddle-transciments, because in the end, we all agree, we must go to a kind of senioric model, which is 100 percent repeated, if it's our matrix or mythic, or myrge, at 80%, that if it's a fossil, it must be made through a transition, and we must all pass through a transition. And you defend that gas will be on that road. I say, too, that the gas will be on that road, and I say that the oil will be on that road, because we will continue to consume oil in the next decades, and at least in one part of the road the nuclear energy will be on the way, and, incluso, coal, because in our electrical system, even if we don't produce it there, we also include coal in it the energy that comes from the Spanish system by coal. Therefore, to admit that there will be gas in the transition, it doesn't mean that we have to push the gas and bet on the public money. I think we ought to make a great difference in these matters. Eta, gero, bieste alde battik, badago bieste kontu bat, éta da aspaldidinik hamarkada osoan, esaten aritu zarete, éta Hydrocarbonos de Euskadi esaten aritu da, jakin behar de la ea Arro Kantauriarrean, "in the Basque-Cantabrian Basin", and hydrokarburoak badauden, eta hori dela kontua, jakitea ea badauden. Ba, mystery nik Azalduk diszuet, and she behin betiko konponduta gelditzen den kontua. Badaude Arro Kantauriarrean... In the Basque Cantabrian Basin there are hydrocarbons. We all know that for over 100 years, hydrocarbons have been known to have been in the Basque Cantabrian Basin for 100 million years. And proof of that is this map that I have taken from the Euskadi Hydrocarbons page itself. [[Show a page]] , in which you can see perfectly how, since the drilling began, up to 256 wells have been made to try to explore or exploit gas or oil. Okay? And, in particular, in the area of Gasteiz, Araba, there have been 29. And in many of them, there have been signs of gas, signs of oil and there have even been some moments when there has been a small exploitation, such as the famous exploitation of Ayoluengo, or closer to home, the gas farms of Campo Castillo. Beraz, badago gaga, guztiok dakigu dagoela. Another question is whether it's profitable and I don't know how many years of consumption there's gas or if there's oil or hydrocarrous. And I think, presely, that the performance of those 256 wells shows us that there is no way of getting gas or oil out of them for the past 100 years. And now that time has ended, money, to devote itself to non-relational projects, at a time when we need it so much in renewable energy. So the question would not be to see whether the gas will be used in the energy transition or in the neurotic transition, and the question would not be whether there are any gas in the Eu-Canturia rock, but the question would always be to ask whether the reassignables should be the right place at this moment when they are so necessary, and whether the wager or question should be whether we can bring down the consumption of oil, nuclear, charcoal, and gas, and gas, and how we do not raise it; how do we get it down? And maybe that way we could make some agreements, but not push hydrocarbubes from the public sector. We won't get a deal out of that. I explained a little in the interpelation of the SSA's career, which has been 37 since it started, and its course has been very poor. There has been no success anywhere, and the essays have been numerous either in itself or in others, but all adventures are over. I even put the numbers on the table: in the last ten years the public budget has produced a hole above 80 million euros from the Hydrocarcuros de Euskata, and in one project, the Viura project, Erroxan, the numbers have shown us very clearly how there is no income, how there is no profit, and how we have already introduced 50 million dollars and have not recovered half of them. And now, in the final answers, we have been told again that they would need an investment of another 7 million euros for the next year, and now Armentia with the well II, then another seven, eight, one knows how many back to the tenth. So we could go back to 15-20 million euros, or they'd go from the budget to the Hidrocarbulus de Euskadi. So it seems to me that the time has come to give you a negative. Viurari buruz, nahi baduzue, gero gehiago hitz egin dezakegu; baina, bono, SHESA ére deitua dankagu Batzordera eta haiekin eztabaidatuko dugu. Baina nik uste due osso argi dagoela, éta hau graphikan aurrekoan erakutsi nuen, nola tusto errentagarria zen proyektu batan azken bi putzuetan beren ekoizpena oso kaskarra izan den, éta ekoizpenaren momentu altu edo gailurrean no la iragari ziguten bider lau izango zela 2020an, éta spectatiben % 10ean gaude. Eta, heifer, ez hori Bakarrik, baizik weretzunak ematen diskigutenean, is that the thing is put as a fun medium. Because I ask, of course, when they tell me that from here we're going to go to a production multiplied by four and it turns out that we've divided it between ten, I say, but what's going on? Euskadi Hydrocarbons What I am told is that this decrease is due to certain perceptive operations, to the strategy decided by the partners and to the situation of the global pandemic. Don't miss it... (Orri batzuk erakutsi ditu) Well, the world pandemic situation, in this chart, starts here, when production had already fallen by more than 80%. But, well, they just missed the phrase "well, then, we don't have gas because the raccoon is eating it." Entonces, I believe that there is a certain point of hair in it, and that it is time to stop the Hydrocarbulus de Basque, to interrupt the public flow, and say that the time of Hidrocarbros de Euchardi is over, hasn't it? Beraz, hori dankagu hor geneuzkan kontuetan; nik interpelazioa éta abar horren inguruan egin nituen; batha, azken eguinetan, berriro ére, Armentia II Gasteizen egin nahi den putzuaren inguruko eztabaida eta zalaparta etorri da. Zergatik?, ba, Euskadik eskatu hydrocarbon duelako udal-lizentzia. Nik defendazzen dut, éta eztabaidatuko dugu nahi baldin baduzue, ba, Armentia II putzuaren bila joatea, this is a mistake, if you look where you look. I argue that this is a mistake, from a climate point of view, from an urbanistic, technical, social, budgetary, legal point of view as well, and, of course, it is a political mistake to be defending this at the moment: Climate is evident, because the entire public money bet has to go to renewable energies, because, indeed, we have an atrocious urgency in this country to make that transition in an urgent way, so it is not understood that it goes there. Budget, of course, because I just said that Euskadi Hydrocarbons is going to ask for money from the public coffers for two wells, so, at a time when there is not the thing to make unnecessary investments or ridiculous investments that are not going to go anywhere, so it is not the best time. A technical issue too, because, of course, we have talked a lot in this Parliament about the nature of these wells and the techniques and the site itself. Obviously, we are facing an unconventional deposit, as Euskadi Hydrocarbons has recognized over and over again, and if Viura's conventional deposit is not profitable, then you will tell me what we are going to get out of an unconventional deposit. Besides, so much we talk about Viura's field, about the three BCMs that there may be, at best, because they have a comparison, that they know that, of the three BCMs, the best scenario of the La Rioja gas field would be the consumption of the state of one month, so that we take it into account when making comparisons. There are also legal reasons, because – and this would be a little long to explain, and I will say it very schematically – if you look at it, hydrocarbon exploration permits have a duration of six years plus three extensions; in any case, they would be nine. It turns out that these permits were applied for in 2006 and we are in 2020, of up to nine, we are in 20. Of course, and this has to do with the Euskadi Hydrocarbons saying that – for reasons not attributable to them – things have been delayed. But this is judicialized; this is in the National Court and in a short time you will know what the verdict is, because you may give all the full permission per expired. Don't you? I believe that, being this judgment above, it is not the best time; it is not a prudent decision to activate this well at this time. Don't you? And then, I think social reasons are quite obvious; there's no social license for that well, and if we take that social license to the municipal institution, then there's not even the majority at stake, is there? And then there are, too, and I believe that this dispute ought to explain everything, and there are some of the Cambrian reasons which say that the pool cannot be made. And that's what the Gastine Council says, I've got a report here of 2016 absenta, firbora por artibecta jefa de servicio, en en la que explica claramente que están prohibitidas las activedas extractivivas en elérmino en se se se plana. But it's something that Euskadi Hydrocarbons already knew and what I don't understand is the hunch of trying to do it again in the same place, making the same mistake. Because, page eight of the environmental impact study document for the change of orientation from what were the Enara-1 and 2 wells, to fracking in their day, clearly says that "the limitations of use imposed by the current municipal classification and non-urban land regime as forest value land...", and such, "... make this document to be issued, in order to move the location of the survey 250 meters". That is, Euskadi Hydrocarbons knew in 2011, when this was done, that it could not be done and had recognized it himself, right?, to make the same mistake again in 2016, of wanting to do the well in the same place and the City Council saying no. So there is nowhere to take it technically, urbanly, budgetly, socially and, of course, politically, because in the end, as we have been defending, we understand that a serious pact is needed that goes beyond, say, a legislature and a specific government, to make the energy transition with a minimum of consensus. And, of course, putting this well into operation disables any possibility of reaching any agreement. And I want to finish it later, I'll talk more about it, but I want to interact with P. P.O.E. because I think you have a lot of things here to explain, but in Spain you're making the law of climate change, where you're setting up the bane to explore or exploit hydrocarbubres, and that's your political position. We can't understand... and not only in the law, but that there must be a perversion of public sectors in fossil sectors, which is set up in the law. And we don't agree that you're here as a comparsita to continue the tactical process of gas pushers. I think here, too, you have to say something, don't you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u26	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos-Nozzer, madam, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u27	Well, thank you, ma'am. It'll be the day after five years of Paris's eloquence was signed. At that time, the society of the world, and even the Basque society, assumed this agreement with joy and illusions, especially when young people, who see that our climate and our planet are in serious danger, and that the authorities do not pay any proper attention to it. And after five years, Euskadin could say that nothing has changed recently. On November 11th we learned that Sociedad de Hidrocarbulus de Euskidi-SHESA, has brought out a new contract of 40,000 around, a search for gas-puters, and a consultant for production. So five years later, since Paris was approved of, the project of gas-pulling in SUVIL is still alive. Five years later, the diesel's tax has been taken away, and five years later, they want to give a synthetic fuel company for the gas jet effects, the Petronor. And it's just that gas policies can only... in favour of gas, rather, policies in favour of gas are only understood from a business perspective, a business that really benefits a few. Its advocates argue – and have been arguing for more than 20 years – that gas is a transition energy to renewable energy. However, the scientific community and the Paris Agreement are on the other hand, and what they are asking is for direct investment in renewable energy. The International Energy Agency itself, and the markets as well, are confirming that solar and wind power are now cheaper than gas. And not Algeria's gas, also Euskadi's gas, because Euskadi's gas also pollutes, also contributes to the climate collapse, and Euskadi's gas is also more expensive than solar energy, with wind. So in this order of things, in the plenary that was also discussed in... in the inquiry to which this motion gives rise, it has already been demonstrated, and well, and the proponent of this initiative has also shown today, that gas, in addition to being a poison, is a ruin also in Euskadi, that of the millions that has received SHESA for these adventures in the search for gas with public money, and it has also made explicit reference here to the Viura project, the truth is that half of the investment has been recovered and so it is also seen to be in losses. So, taking all this into account, can we say that SHESA is doing a good job? can we say or can we justify wasting public money?, in addition to pushing the planet into a climate collapse. I believe that on the contrary, what can be said is that the action of this company goes against the planet and against the market, by betting on an energy that is more expensive than solar and wind, and, of course – it has also been mentioned – goes against the future. Climate Change and Energy Transition Act. So, at this point in time, what all the political forces here have to make clear and we have to clarify and we have to make clear and, expressly, I also make my call or my call, yes, to the Socialist Party of Euskadi, is whether we are in favour of innovation and renewable and clean energies, or we are in favour of the model of gas and oil exploitation that has led us to a climate emergency. It's that simple; it's not simple but it's simple. Today we are talking again about SHESA in Parliament, and, today too, we have to demand once again the end of the fossil fuels era in the Basque Country in Euskadi. We have to call for the end of an activity that damages people's health, which leaves our youth with a planet exposed to droughts, floods, and a great loss of biodiversity, due to climate collapse. The UN reports are warning us of the importance of speeding up the transition to renewable energy, with particular emphasis on 2030, and the response to this emergency in Euskadi cannot be to produce more greenhouse gases, I say, whether from Algeria or from Euskadi. For this reason, our group, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, has reached a compromise with the proposing group, through which we urge the Government to start the procedures to extinguish SHESA's activity and to take, in the meantime, measures to prevent any injection of public money, both from own budgets and from third-party funds as well; that it does not go another euro to pollute... to pollute the planet, not another euro against the future and against people's health. In our amendment, we also wanted to support the workers of SHESA, because we also understand that the closure of a company cannot harm their workers and their families; therefore, we also urge the Government to seek a way out, and it may be the easiest way to relocate them to the Basque Energy Agency itself, in energy efficiency projects and in the promotion of renewable energy. And also, through our participation, our amendment, which has been negotiated and accepted – and from here we thank the proposing group – we have also wanted to mention the fate of the Next Generation funds and their development to the promotion of renewable energies. We know that we have a full monograph in which we will talk about it on 16 December; but, today and in relation to this issue, we believe that we also need to insist that that money, that money that is public... we cannot allow it to be used for some private companies to centralize energy generation, to do business with it and then to charge consumers, on a monthly basis, the electricity that is generated, a electricity that is generated, partly, with public money. That cannot be a transformative objective to which the European Union aspires: we ask that we look at a country, for example, like Germany, with a widely decentralized model of energy production. Therefore, today we insist that self-consumption and decentralized energy generation projects should be prioritized for individuals, communities of neighbours or energy cooperatives. In short, the sovereignty to which we aspire in Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita has much to do with it, it aims, of course, in relation to this issue, to free people from what is slavery to be perpetual consumers, and to turn these people into generators of their own energy. Let us also take an interest in this kind of sovereignty, and let us demonstrate it with the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u28	Thank you, madam. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u29	Good morning, everyone. Mr. Otero said the theme east of deja vu... The truth is that even those of us who have been in this for a short time and have dedicated the bridge to updating and reading, for the truth is that there is a time when I don't know exactly what new we can say or not to say; but, come on, I will try to clear up some doubts, especially at this time where there seems to be some interest in knowing what the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra thinks and thinks. Today we are bringing back to this House an initiative about SHESA, the Euskadi Hydrocarbon Society; but, on this occasion, of course, it would not be my intention or my dedication to discuss its role, its history or the role it has been playing in this society over its more than 30 years of existence, for a simple reason, I have just said, because I believe that everything that should be said on these issues is said. To anyone who has or wants to know the position on this issue, I refer you to the Ordinary Plenary Journal of December 20, 2019. And it is that it has not yet been a year – as Mr Otero said; well, next week a year ago – since we discussed the function, history, etc., etc. of this Hydrocarbon Society. The position of the Basque Socialists today is the same as we had of that – I insist, a year ago... next week it is a year old –; I subscribe one by one and I make mine every and every one of the words of Mrs Natalia Rojo, a socialist parliamentarian who defended our position on that occasion. A new issue that is coming to debate today is that of the profitability of this society. In this regard, on 27 November, the Counsellor for Economic Development, Sustainability and the Environment, Mrs Arantxa Tapia, had the opportunity to offer a battery of data and arguments regarding the profitability of this society. Another thing is whether we like the data and the arguments or not, but giving gave them. And once again, in this regard, I also refer to the Journal of Sessions of this plenary session, making my own the explanations given by the Counsellor. What I would like to do is say a few words to what I consider to be a bit of a novelty in this respect in recent months: On December 2, we knew, exactly a week ago, that the Governing Council of Spain was interested in the General Courts' handling of the bill on Climate Change and Energy Transition, promoted by the Minister of Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Socialists believe that this law is the reference that will mark our way. It will be the translation of our commitments into a regulatory framework that clearly defines the objectives and markers that we should use to assess our progress. We know, because we know, that its processing will open up a necessary reflection on the kind of future we want for the Euskadi Hydrocarbon Society. Naturally, this society must adapt, like all others, whether public or private, to the new regulatory realities, both Spanish and European, and to the entire international framework. However, I would also like to focus a little bit on a more general area. I know that, in the end, Mr. Otero is going to say that we're going to talk about the same thing again, but, well, that's what happens when you bring up such a subject or similar to that of other times... Because it is not just a matter of discussing the role of the Hydrocarbon Society; it is only understandable as part of a broader energy policy. The SHESA is but a piece of the gear, which only becomes meaningful in the context of the entire energy and climate change policies developed by the Government. That is why the amendment tabled by both my group and the Basque Nationalist group returns the debate to where it is to be located: in the policies that we want to develop in order to achieve the objectives that we have set ourselves as a society. The technological development of the last three decades has led to the use of renewable energies being technically viable and economically competitive, to the point that a world based exclusively on renewable energies is a world that can not only be dreamt of, but can begin to be planned. But we cannot silence the fact that this transition will be conditioned by the ability of renewable energies to provide energy at competitive prices and also by the possibility of storing the energy produced, given the intermittent nature of many of these renewable energies. I would also like to devote some time to the second point of our amendment. In it, we call on the Government to manage the transition by taking on renewable energy as a target and using natural gas only as a transitional element. In other words, we ask the government to take a stand on what Xabier Garmendia has given in calling the trilemma of the electric transition in Spain. Because, beyond reaffirming ourselves, and reaffirming ourselves, in the need to be aligned with the sustainable development goals and commitments agreed upon by the international community, we also need to decide on the path we want to take to reach the destination that we have set ourselves for 2050. Because, of the three primary energies to generate electricity (coal, natural gas and nuclear), we will not be able to abandon all three simultaneously. At a minimum, one of them will be required to act as backup energy, in order to enable the network to be managed in a secure supply environment. Because, today, and in the current state of our know-how, a renewable energy-based network, as I have already put it, would be intermittent and therefore unmanageable, as long as competitive storage systems are not developed. It will therefore be necessary to choose one of the primary energies for this transition. We have already begun the definitive extinction of coal, a decision that is absolutely applaudable, being, as it was, the most polluting source of energy of all three. Therefore, once coal is discarded, we must situate the debate, the search for that transitional energy, between natural gas and nuclear energy. There is no doubt, and at least from the perspective of the Socialist Party, that the best alternative would be to shut down nuclear power plants, as the end of their regulatory life comes, thus achieving the abandonment of this type of energy by 2028, with the added advantage and nothing negligible of eliminating any risk of suffering any kind of nuclear accident. Of course, this scenario where we are discarding coal and we are talking about eliminating nuclear energy would place gas as the main energy in that path that we have to go, as I said, in order to be able to achieve the objectives committed in 2050. Furthermore, given the current underutilization of combined cycle gas plants, little investment would be needed to strengthen this energy once we have eliminated nuclear energy, as we have assumed. The Socialists' commitment is clearly set out in the explanatory memorandum to the above-mentioned Climate Change and Energy Transition Act. We are faced with a crossroads of paths, and it is time to make decisions. Delaying decisions, as stated in the above-mentioned statement, would entail taking more risks, more costs and more unfairly distributed. But, I insist, it is not only a question of defining the goal; it is necessary, necessary and compulsory to draw the line that must unite, in the most efficient and sustainable way possible, the point at which we are currently at present and the objective committed and longed for within three decades. The road is a substantial and inevitable part of those decisions, which we cannot ignore or postpone. There are many elements that we will still have to discuss in this House. Destiny is, perhaps, the goal that we have most clearly decided, which leads to the greatest degree of agreement. No one doubts that we have to reach 2050 by meeting – and, if possible, surpassing – the goals agreed in Paris. That is the goal to which the Socialists intend to devote all our energies. A path to ensure that we reach a just and prosperous society, with a modern, resource-efficient, competitive and climate-neutral economy. No more. I have no doubt that we have many issues and many issues to discuss. That shows that this is an issue that concerns all groups represented in the House, or at least the vast majority of them. We will have to talk, logically, about interconnections; we will have to talk about the impossibility or difficulty of energy autonomy based on renewable energy; we will have to talk about savings, or we will have to talk about energy efficiency. We will have to speak and acquire all those commitments that Basque citizenship expects and demands. Time will therefore have to continue to explore common paths on which to meet us. Nothing more; thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u31	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. You used to say Déjà vu, Mr. Otero; I say, "new old men," because, regardless of what I've done in the last four years' commissions, we've been at least four times in this whole meeting, with this one, the fifth. And most of the time in December. It's as if in December, on the fixed avenue of EH Collect, the fracing -a or gas will be, according to the moment at which it appears at the moment of the current period. I mean, we've spent hours at the point of this subject, and I've brought old Caton, Manolo Ubieta, Vicete Manterola, Don Carlos Theto. But he did not persuade me, and I did not persuade him; for in four years both of us have tried to persuade the other, and neither of us has succeeded in doing so. The head of the tapestry has often attempted it, but even he has tried it too. So unfortunately, I don't think we'll have any other results today. Still, you know I don't lose hope. I always tell you that we have an opportunity for the agreement, maybe not a view that is more extensive than you think is, in regard to the neurotic transition. I think it's clear that in this paranoia we agree that the transition to rargetic is here and a challenge we've got right now. I don't know. I always think the same, though it is generally the same, that some think that transition is not a proper name for it; For some, we'll go to bed tonight, get up early tomorrow morning, and everybody will be provided with retals. And things, as you know, are going for a long time. I mean tomorrow, tomorrow morning, tomorrow morning, we won't wake up in a world provided with retals. And we must differentiate the way to challenge, purpose, and such ends. Then, when the name of the mythical transition has been chosen, or when it has been named, it is meant that a road must be broken, and this road will be long, it will be steep, because it is impossible to change the state quo from day to day. And not only because of economic conditions, there are also technical conditions and of all kinds. In any case, since we make it clear in our today's correction, our challenge, our purpose, we wish to make it clear: it is always the help of the gas in transition. I have said more than once in this tribal that the model of energy and politics of a people is not only ours, but first of all the peoples of the world, according to the improvement or production of their natural resources; I don't know where you get the only guardians of the landscape and nature and environment. What do you think? We want to... We live here, and we are many. And do you think we want to fill our town with holes? That you only love your children? Do you want to leave a green world and a "mamabilos" to your children and we want to leave something gray and dark? No, it's the opposite. And secondly, I was just saying that if there is no natural resources, that's our case... Here, Mr. Otero, it is not drama, and if it is so, it is only 20 of what we produce, and here the drama is that we are inlerative consumers and must import 95%. That's the real drama, that's the way. Let's try to generate our energy so we can change that. Here, too, independence has its place in this planning. And when I say that energy should be directed at the least cost, I don't just say that at the least cost, I'm looking at the economy, there's also the cost of environmental costs. So I understand when you say, "Bueno, the gas isn't the choice. Let's go on, I don't know how many years now it's all used." Well, I think, on the one hand, we're doing a lot of good if we narrow all the options that are on the planet and plan on the gas. And I've told you so many times, Mr. Otero, and it's not really a trick, I'm convinced that if the situation from this point of view, if there are means, the technique, if we save climateal, ecological, and the respect for the environment, it'll be much better for the planet than to get gas out of here somewhere else, with what it supposes. It's not just Aljerian or Trinidad y Tobagon, we know how, on the other hand, we know how to pull out the gas. I mean, I mean, it's important that you bring them here in here, you need to see some incredible ships coming here, and then you need a regasgation process. I mean, that also has its effect on carbon. And, as I say, the first care of a government and a people in the field of energy must be to know its natural resources. I've always said: for us, it is absolutely necessary that we should know what we have under it for a national view. And we don't have a problem saying that. Then the later ones. Then there could be some stories we've been talking about for years. The administrative procedure which the Gastine Council provides, not the report, is not the case. What Madrid gives, the limits that the next law can establish. He'll be very polite about it, on that side, don't worry about it. Not many things are in the hands of politics. Now, if the Gastéian City says yes or no, it's not Gorka Urtane's encygull, because he decides a hug, Gorka Gorka, because the Gastei City technicians say so. And in our case, in order to ensure this proper management, I think it's a lucky one, we have a public company, the public, that leaves that soil in our hands to do this kind of exploitation. It's a big opportunity. And to me, I think it's really surprising that the two parties on your left today should come and tell you that a public company must be shut up for private people to take that place, because that would be the case, too, to make it clear. "No, but the workers are EV." Well, well, that wouldn't have happened. They wouldn't have come in afterwards until the law was changed. Of course not. In any case, I think I have defended our position for years, and I shall not prolong it. To bring in a new character today, Mr. Otero, I mean the author, my friend, Garitagondia, Grei, because I am also condemned to hope. And instead of talking about this... I know that you said this is conditio sine qua non, for new agreements such as the agreements we've made, but I think it's time to increase energy efficiency together, to increase the production and consumption of the most recent energy, and to penetrate into the euphortion strategy of energy. We must renew and strengthen this famous Basque 3E. We need to focus on self-consumption and the distribution of production. We've got to guarantee the survival of the fair transition. And we need a new law to face this transition. That's the way we'll deal with it in the years that we've been following. We'll help you on the way? Well, who knows?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u32	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. The Basque Popular Group, representative of Ciudadnos, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u33	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The background of this motion presented here this time, because it is this time, has to do with the performance that is carrying out this society of somewhat caspian name, Euskadi Hydrocarbon Society, and the performance that it is carrying out in Armentia II, with the perforations for which it has been obtained license in a somewhat surprising way, since the PGOU of Vitoria in Armentia, first of all, is a protected area, in which, however much you want to find a bag of gas or hydrocarbons, you will not be able to exploit it, and more with the new law that will be carried out, of ecological transition. And secondly, we have great doubts about the safety offered by these studies, these wells, because the aquifer that supplies Vitoria is there. We don't want to pollute the water that supplies the Victorians, do we? Moreover, today this debate is coming very well, because in the City Council of Vitoria they are having problems in negotiating budgets. This issue is not new at parliamentary level. How I like you to use the deja vu group of words. When I was preparing this speech today, it gave me to look for an explanation or a reason for the existence of an anonymous society like this; like this, because today we talk about SHESA, but we have a few similar ones, with different objects and yet similar ones. And look, I'm gonna make a story. In the 1980s the Spanish model was reproduced here on a small scale, with all its public societies and so on, and this was happening in many countries that were evolving, right? However, over the years these public enterprises have been extinguishing or privatizing, as their role left much to be desired, and I will explain myself: Over the past 40 years, the meaning in which legislation has been enacted has been, only and exclusively, as far as public procurement is concerned, towards maximum control of public contracts so that there is no room for damage, trapping or conchaveo of those who held power in the administrations and private entities fighting or fighting to obtain such contracts. Therefore, the existence of public societies brings a halo of obscurantism to those who govern, in order to be able to save the strict rules to which they owe, in the case of offering public contracts. And what about the workers of public enterprises. To be a public worker, one has to submit to an opposition and get to be among the best to access one or another job; however, those who work in public enterprises do not have to go through an opposition or a competition; therefore, in the selection processes, which there are, what the shift leader can do is request a selective process to hire that individual, and that of turn human resources can say "well, we are going to open a process for someone with the same academic level", and it is passed to the leader in question, but no, he is going to say: no, the process is to hire this subject, and this is what we all have in mind and what we have been hearing for many years; there are always doubts. And yes, gentlemen, here is another of the problems of public enterprises, which allow workers to be a discretionary choice of who governs. I see, that, surely, even if there has not been a clear opposition that will be very good worker and prepared for the post, but there will always be the doubt; he will be in the post paid for by the public office, without having passed an opposition. Another thing: when a public society has in its social object one equal to that already exists in private activity, there is competition with the sector that generates wealth and pays its taxes. Of course, and the public company that has losses at the end of the year covers its hole with the public treasury, it also paid with the taxes paid by the companies, to whom we compete. And, man, I don't know, since the privates do it, that they do it, and that they do it if they can, even I don't know if the privates could have done some drilling in Armentia, with the current PGOU. For all this, I am not going to extend much longer, and it is a little difficult to see the need that, today, has a well-developed activity by the private sector. This belongs rather to societies in which democracy shines for its absence, and these txiringuitos, with tx, serve to place friends and to hire services from companies of acquaintances; however, we will abstain at this point, and we will propose a plan to eliminate all public enterprises, which do not understand very well what their task is today and which, for all the above, generate very serious doubts to our group and to citizens in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Passing on the answers, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u35	Just a little time, at least a few telegrams. Mr. Grabaris, in short, you say we've brought him here often, and I think we always give you the chance, don't you? Come on, finish this up with the Hydrocarbulus de Euskadia and it'll be over if we bring this to you. It's more and more Cantholy with the needs and the transition... It's more and more dangerous to spend the money you're spending here, isn't it? It's creating a hole here that's getting bigger, deeper and deeper, as I said, in the last decade of 80 million euros, but it's going to grow more in the next year, isn't it? Eta jende asko ekarri dugu hemen to collation, ezta? Well said St.Thomas, see to believe; that is, this cannot be a test of faith, it cannot be a test of faith. SHESA has been 37 years old to prove what it does, and what it does is throw public money into the trash. That's what Euskadi Hydrocarbons does, and that's what they're going to keep doing. You tell him the transition is going on for a long time, of course it's going for a long time. But we can cut it, or we can extend it. Because if public investments go to the gas, we'll extend it, and if public investments are removed from the gas and removed to the retrials, we'll cut it off. And you say that we restore the effort, and I repeat: Look at the budget. Look at the budget, check the budgets for the next year. And you say you don't... I mean, what do we think we're trying to fill the town with holes? Well, what do you think is the Great Enara of Hydrocarbulus? To test a well and develop thousands of non-commencial oil tanks or thousands of wells. That's the plan. There's nothing else, it's all settled. O sera, sabemos la permealibilad del lugar, sabemos la ratea orgánica de carbono que tibie y sabemos que el desaborllo de cagarocaría, muchos no, muchísmos funos. I don't know what you want to do. I'll tell you what's going to happen if we stick to that process, that's all I'm saying. The Big Picture, right? I concentrate on SHESA and not on transition... I don't see the whole picture. Oh, I didn't, did you? Of course, you have the concrete Biscaia, Bahía Biscaia Gas, and from the public, the electricity produced by EVE comes from 97 gas. I mean, it's not that Hydrocarbulus de Euchardi is a small part and that everything else is centered in retaves, but that Hydrocarbios de Euscadi is a small part of the deep and ardent gambling for the gas. The Big Picture is the gas again, not the renewables again. Wait a minute a esto (he made a sign with his fingers) de os empecemos a illam "los locos del gas." Really. Not just here, eh, Madrid. And with that, I want to interview Mr. Alonso. Esaten duzu, zero, dena eanda dagoela, that's all said, isn't it? But I don't think you can escape that easily – I understand, uh, politically I say – from this challenge. Because you can't say you subscribe to what Natalia Rojo said last December, which I also subscribe to, which I also subscribe to, and say you subscribe to what the counselor says, because it crashes, because it crashes. Because Natalia Red what she said is that, out of loyalty to the government, she was swallowing with a project she disagreed with and Arantxa Tapia what she says is that we have to boost the gas, "Subijana's gas project is part of the Basque strategy to boost the use of renewables" [[Show a page]] That's what Tapia says. So it's not compatible... And you can't escape the question. And the question is, are we going to continue to subsidize, with public money, Euskadi Hydrocarbons? Is there going to be money in next year's budgets? Are we going to continue to maintain a public company whose sole objective is the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons? This completely clashes with the letter and spirit of the energy transition law that you are proposing in Madrid, in which you explicitly speak of banning new explorations and new exploitations. And not only that, not only that, but you make a clear bet that from the public sector there will be a disinvestment in fossil fuels. And you have "gas freaks" putting amendments one after the other in Madrid, so that all that you intend to do, with what we agree, will not go ahead. Then you have to get wet. You've got to get wet! You have to say that what is being proposed here: to continue with a public company investing in fossil fuels and trying to speed up projects so that the possible approval, in the terms that is written, of the Energy Transition and Climate Change Act of Madrid, so that it does not catch them with..., that is, to jump that fence, that is the goal that has the acceleration of all this right now. Of course, I don't think it's worth saying that you agree and that you subscribe to what Arantxa Tapia says, because it's that so much here... and trying to carry out those projects, maintaining the public hydrocarbon society and putting the torpedoes of the amendments that you are putting in place in order to continue with the gas you have to create a problem. And you can't get away from answering this. And the question is clear: Are we still keeping Euskadi Hydrocarbons? Are we still giving money from the public budgets of next year to Euskadi Hydrocarbons? Yes or no? And that is what is at stake in this compromise amendment, which eskerrik asko Podemoi baita ere sinatzeagatik, noski. Bale?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u36	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Together, Podemos-Nozzer of the Animals. Ma'am, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u37	Well, thanks again, ma'am. Well, about the backup energy for the intermittences of renewable energies, it's already been said, but, well, just repeat, right?, that's not about... Here it is not being said that the use of gas should be stopped absolutely, but that public money should not be used to encourage the exploration and extraction of gas. That's right, don't use public money for this. Ez konbentzeari buruz, ba, ez duela batak beasta konbentzitu, esan duzu. Baina, begiratu, Trump era ez du inork konbentzitu Parisko Hitzarmen horretatik ez ateratzeko. Kontua ez da konbentzitzen zaituen edo ez hori egiteko, baizik eta horren atzean dagoen ebidency zientifiko bat eta horri kontra egitea. In any case, it may be said that you are not in a hurry to finish the heat effects. And you can also say that what points to the survival of the government's policy and this process of my neurogentic transition is not government but Petronor, Repsol, Enagas, Iberdros, and that's very sad. In short, if the Basque Government's bet to carry out the purposes of the Paris Agreement is to continue to waste public money to... in SHESA, well, then, we will have to say that in Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we assume as mission prevent where we can and where we are that this takes place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u38	Thank you, madam. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u39	Thank you, ma'am. Quick thoughts. The truth is that I did not realize that this debate is, in fact, always in December. There was a movie called Thursday, miracle, and in December gas. Good. It is true that, also spinning a bit with the idea of déjà vu, I came to hear an intervention that said exactly the same thing, the same-the same thing, which was said exactly a year ago. So... that, actually, well, looks like we can be a little bit with that marmot effect. As for the matter... There is another issue that I would like to underline before I go a little further into the subject of law or future law, future law, not law. Transition and transit, transition and transit, are members of the same semantic family, that is, who wants a transition is obliged to transit, because, if not, what it is really is... or is in a revolution or is in a sudden change, but, of course, it is not in a transition. As for the law, because you have taken the first two paragraphs. It's true that I bring it read, uh, because in the end, well, one is new and prefers to come stepping on insurance. But you haven't heard, or perhaps I haven't explained myself well, perhaps I speak a little bit low, the third paragraph, in which I said that we know that this law will open up a reflection on the future we want for the Euskadi Hydrocarbon Society. Point. To the best of my knowledge, few words are enough. As for this law, obviously, I have also said that it is a reference law for us. It's in processing. It does make me a lot of fun, because it often seems that the law is presented in one way, I don't know how to say it, in block, and then there's like some kind of attack from the rest of the parties or groups, in which you try to transform or in which you try, in some way, to modify that law, right? The PNV is working, fighting, with the question of fashion... Okay, but I'm the one who understands the laws from a different perspective. And I understand the law as a project that is presented and built and generated through all the agreements and contributions of the whole House. Because, in the end, that's what works a little bit, isn't it, and that's what democracy is all about. In the end, that law has to achieve the greatest possible consensus, not only because of the mere arithmetical game, which you know is also necessary, but because it reflects the greatest support or translation of the image of a society that supports that law, right? So we, of course, continue to support this project; we continue to support the process being carried out from Madrid, and we fully assume all and each of the consequences arising from the adoption of the law. Whatever. We've got the draft. We'll see how it ends. And end as it ends, we'll assume... I'm not saying anything about the other world, saying we'll take over the law... It's a question, well, it seems to you very obvious, but it's not believed that everyone has it so clear, or historically it hasn't been so clear, eh! We will assume each and every consequence arising from the adoption of this law. And, no more, two minutes left for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u40	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u41	Yes, thank you. The Chief of Staff, very briefly. Mr. Otero has already mentioned St. Paul, St. Thomas... next time, to melt the Saint Christbal, to make the players. We don't know how we'll do it. We don't know that because metals are here-and you need a pretty strong intensity to melt them. Well, I don't know if we'll fall off the horse. History says that you usually take a road, which gives you years and years, and ends by changing it. In this case, I'd like to think it'll be the same thing, wouldn't it? And I don't want to give examples, but I think everyone knows at least the change in attitudes that Abertarian left has had in the last 40-50 years, even in energy. My fear is something else now. I mean, I'm clear... We know we don't have a deal on this. From now on, even we know, you know, the Big Photographic or I don't know how... You said The Big Picture. I'll show you what's the reason you're saying that we've been delayed in this country in the retatory development. You've got to slow it down. Everyone has to ask themselves why the retracts have been delayed in this country. And maybe, and I don't want to mention it directly, but we'd go back to these changes of strategy, right? So, when we say that the retactables have not been developed here for years, and not only look forward, e.g. left and right, you would have made things clearer. I told you: our hand is there, not at all; in this we shall not come to an agreement, because ye see it in a certain manner, and because we see the contrary. We really believe in this, we put our seed in the world. I mean, with the gas bets, the coal and the oil stop at the other end. I will not enter, as in the former legislation, into disputes about Germany, or today. We too, we want to put our grain on it, and we also think that we put a grain in it while we're on another path. And that's what we have to deal with, treat, and influence from now on. It is always my same doubt, which I set before me. What will yours be on the road? Can you repeat them, but as you say, don't you? Like it's always been? We'll see. I always say: I am doomed to hope, and I hope they all travel that way. But we know each other. We know him! Let's start working the solar power, and you'll be in front of it. And with that I don't want to criticize the same action, but you will stand in front of it, behind a banner: "Not like that! "And we shall begin to exercise the power of wind, and ye shall stand before it, behind a banner: "Not like that! "... And, well, in four years to come, I hope not, but I suppose there will be two ways: on the one hand the yes, on the other the negation. If they meet, Mr. Otero, you know, I'm perfectly happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u42	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. The Basque Popular Group-Céananos mustn't speak- (he talks with the Michrophone off). [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 38; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 40; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u43	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eunciators. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 38; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 40; the opponents, 33; Abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u44	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos-Nodemus as a parliamentary group of parliamentary factions, concerning the defence of the proper work. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together Podemos-Malez, Mr. Hernandez, is yours to present and defend the engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u45	Yes, good morning, congressmen. Today, I would like to begin by reading part of a brief text from a fairly active organization in Euskadi, which bears the title Against Indecent Precarity, and says the following: "Decent work must be at the centre of government actions to restore economic growth and build a new world economy that gives priority to people. Efforts should be focused on combating the indecent precariousness of many workers. With a labour market characterized by precariousness, temporaryity and low wages, about 14% of the employed population today are people who, despite having a job, do not manage to get out of poverty, to which is added the finding, through a study that we have drawn up – which they have drawn up – on working conditions, that the violation of labour rights is normalized, especially in the most precarious sectors, setting up a labour market that does not ensure decent living conditions". The revolutionary organization that signs this text is called Diocesan Caritas. My relationship with them, as you can imagine, is not very close, but I have to say they are right. Our parliamentary group, we say or have been saying the same thing these people say in this text: the violation of labour rights is normalized; the labour market is characterized by precariousness, and it does not guarantee decent living conditions for the working class. That is why we recorded in Parliament this proposal not law on 7 October, coinciding with the International Day for Decent Work, a day of demand and mobilization, where different social, trade union, political and religious organizations, as they have seen, demand every year decent work with rights and security. In order to fight for dignity in jobs, in jobs, in the Basque Country, we raise the urgent need to take and develop measures to deal with job insecurity, which, in our view, has been chronicling in the working population for a decade, and which runs the risk of further expansion, with the excuse or following the current crisis caused by the COVID-19 virus. For this, first of all, we have an obligation to avoid repeating the mistakes of the recent past and to ensure that economic recovery does not happen again at the expense of precarious working conditions, because that was precisely the cornerstone on which the economic recovery turned, following the capitalist crisis begun in 2008: the impoverishment of the living and working conditions of the working class, in order to pay with it the holes in the accounts of capital, holes that the capitalists themselves had generated; it is also worth remembering more than ten years later. In the 2008 crisis, along with bailouts to banks and cuts in public services, the central focus of the policies that were put in place was the strong and decisive attack on labour rights, wages and working conditions. To implement it, policies were also implemented to weaken trade union centres as much as possible. Policies preceded by genuine contempt campaigns against a figure without which this country would be absolutely different and undeniably worse for the lives of most people, and I refer to the trade unionists, whom I wanted to highlight today. Because existing rights at work have been arduously earned, through history, by the struggle of the working class and its trade union and political organizations. The history of rights at work, the history of labour rights, is also the history of class struggle. Without the struggle of the organized working class, without the struggle of the unions, there would be today, we would not have, eight-hour days or a month's paid vacation or weekly breaks; there would be no minimum wage or wages in collective agreements. Without such organized struggle, people would not have maternity or paternity leave or work leave due to paid illness or accident or unemployment benefits or retirement pensions; they would not have extraordinary pay or necessary safety mechanisms in factory machinery or protective boots or compensation in the event of dismissal. It is, therefore, a story full of progress, but it is also a story full of setbacks; of victories, but also of defeats. None of the rights of the world of work has been given by anyone; each and every one of these rights has been conquered by the workers. But they have also been constantly taken away by the pressure, by action, of those who need a working class with the least possible rights, as we have seen in the last decade. To speak of decent employment, of quality employment, of decent employment, is, in short, to speak, therefore, of a fight, of a constant struggle. A struggle that is not given in abstract, that is real, that has protagonists on both sides of a clash of interests between a working class, which is interested in having good rights for a dignified life, and a capitalist class, for which those rights represent an increase in their labour costs and, therefore, less profit margin. The recovery of rights lost in the last decade was pending the arrival of the current pandemic, and the crisis caused by the virus cannot be an excuse to postpone or forget that recovery of rights. On the contrary, the recovery of the current crisis, in our opinion, has to be driven by the achievement of better working and living conditions for the working class, which is the majority of the people of this country and which creates wealth through their work. To this end, I have been told on more than one occasion that the repeal of labour reform is a first step, which must be taken. It is also a truncated commitment contained in the agreement of the Government of the State, in which we are part of our coalition, which must be fulfilled, because the agreements are about to be fulfilled. A few days ago the president of the Government of Spain said, in an interview, that there will be no labor reform without social agreement. We value the potential of agreements within the framework of social dialogue, but we would like no one to be confused; there can be no veto on the part of the Patron. If you don't make that deal... We expect it to be given; but, if that agreement is not given, someone will have to choose. The United Podemos-Izquierdo Unita coalition is not compatible with the maintenance of the labour reform of the People's Party. Legislation should be changed, as reflected in that signed agreement, repeal labour reform and draw up a new Workers' Statute, ensuring the protection of workers from the social, technological and ecological challenges of the twenty-first century, and the recognition of new rights inherent in the current economic, social and labour realities. But, they will allow me, if anything I learned in my years as a trade unionist – first, in my job and then in the structure of the union – is the fragility of the labor rights we have on the role. Being a trade unionist, I learned the real value of the expression "the paper endures everything." I learned the need for constant and complicated action to ensure that rights that are recognized in legislation, in conventions, in employment plans, even, rights that are, however, violated and violated daily, throughout and across Euskadi, in all kinds of sectors and enterprises. That is why we believe that the Basque Government has a key role to play both in ensuring quality in the country's jobs and in ensuring that existing rights are respected in legislation. And, although once we have reached an agreement on today's initiative – for which I am going to thank, of course, for the effort and work that Mr Aiartza and, in particular, Mr Rico – as he said, although we have reached an agreement, a good agreement – and I am very grateful for their efforts, because I believe that it is indeed a good agreement, and that is why I am not going to put myself particularly critical in today's debate – we have to point out that, when the labour market is characterized by precariousness, when we say that it does not guarantee decent living conditions for the working class, and when we say that the violation of labour rights is normalized, as trade unions point out, but also, as the Diocesan Carites themselves showed at the beginning, then, when we have that reality, it means that policies have not placed quality employment and working conditions at the centre, or, at least, if they have been placed in the centre, to date it has been wrong and not done well. The Basque Government must guarantee the quality of jobs, and it has the capacity, if it wishes, to guarantee quality in the jobs that depend on the public administration, promoting public employment and discarding the possibility of precarious employment in public contracts. In the latter, we would have liked to go further in today's agreement and we will continue to insist on this idea, but we believe that it is a good agreement, which makes clear the importance of public employment, also in the fight for decent employment, and also that in public procurement the Government must guarantee quality in jobs. Today we think that, unfortunately, we cannot say that it is guaranteed. We have seen this, to give a recent example, in the terms of the staffing of the companies contracted for the cleaning of Education and the UPV, in the Committee on Employment and Labour. I will not repeat what we were told there; the spokespersons were present. And in the area of combating job insecurity, in strictly private employment, the incomprehensible separation, in the previous legislature, from the competences of work and employment in different departments, we believe that it has undermined the Basque Government's ability to operate on these issues. We believe that the department was reduced to an Osalan and a Labour Inspectorate, whose resources – as we have been saying for the past four years as well – are absolutely insufficient to ensure that labour legislation is complied with and the rights of workers are adequately respected in the thousands of existing businesses in Euskadi. We do not underestimate the work of the Labour Inspectorate; we do not underestimate the work done in campaigns for the detection of frauds in temporary and partial recruitment. On the contrary, we said in its day that 90% of temporary contracts are in law fraud. And we welcome, in its day, those campaigns that have highlighted many of them; those Labour Inspection campaigns must therefore continue as reflected in the transaction, but the Inspectorate must be provided not only with more human resources and material means, but also with the resources and means to ensure maximum effectiveness in the fight against labour fraud and the enforcement of workers' and workers' rights, and for the development of new specific campaigns, as well as all this is reflected in the agreement that we are expected to adopt in this Parliament today. Because decent employment – and I would very much like to focus on the idea that I want to move now –... decent employment does not depend solely on the type of recruitment; decent employment requires not doing tasks higher than those in the category for which you are being paid; requires not being forced to perform involuntary overtime, which most of the time they do not compute anywhere – sometimes they are paid, sometimes they are not; requires that breaks be respected or that adequate work materials are available; requires good treatment by your bosses; requires the absence of pressure for returning to work on leave due to accident or illness, or the payment of salary in date and form, with a copy of the payroll, among many other issues. Dignified work requires the right to know the company's equality plan, for what it has to be done; it requires knowledge of the plan for the prevention of occupational risks; it also requires the free right to trade union and trade union activity in the company, without pressure, without fear, without signals, without maneuvers, in order, through blackmail, to place sometimes the comrades against that worker who is willing to give face as trade union delegate in the company. All these rights are systematically violated in Euskadi, and they cannot be detected only with the necessary campaigns on employment contracts, nor should we fall, no group, into childishness to believe that these situations are resolved by telling the worker to denounce it. Denouncing them is not easy; on many occasions, it is directly impossible for workers. They know what they play in an area of absolute vertical hierarchy, as is the company. We believe that the government has to go down into the mud of the working world, in order to detect and demonstrate these situations if it wants to reverse them. The misery of the harsh reality existing in the world of work can hardly be perceived from outside. It is seen, lived and suffered only from within, and those who know it best are the workers, with whose representatives, therefore, the Government has to count, preferably, if it wants to face this reality of precariousness and that struggle for quality employment. The intention of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda United with our initiative today was to push in that direction, to put decent employment at the center and to conjure ourselves against the precariousness of the working class. We are satisfied with a good agreement. We think he's pushing in that direction. We thank Mr Aiartza and Mr Rico for their willingness and for the dialogue we have had these days so that we can reach what, I believe, is a good agreement. I would also like to thank Mrs Kortajarena, because the EH Bildu group lacked a couple of elements that they considered important to be also in this agreement, but she has acted with absolute honesty and without putting sticks on the wheel. Our group is absolutely satisfied with an initiative which has contents that will then have to be fulfilled, but which, above all, pushes in that direction and which we believe – and this is the message that we use to launch the Government and the other institutions to which the initiative is directed – that we must go down to the mud of the world of work; the institutions must go down to the mud of the world of work, to guarantee decent employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u46	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections to the popular Basque Group, representative of the Ciudadans, Mr. Gil, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. On 22 October this year, that is, barely a month and a half ago, the members of the group proposing this GNP brought to this rostrum a debate on the same subject that Podemos brings us today. On that occasion, it was called "the commitment to promote quality employment". And on this occasion, his partners have put him in the negative, and they have called him "decent work defense." But the bottom line is the same, to the point that Bildu has tabled as an amendment this GNP – the same text, copied and glued – which he presented on 22 October. I do not quite understand this game between you, but it seems that we are doomed to repeat the debate as one that repeats course, to see if we now approve it. As we all know, 7 October 1999 was proposed by the International Labour Organization as World Decent Labour Day to demand that work be fairly remunerated and carried out in conditions of freedom, security and human dignity, respecting the principle of non-discrimination. First of all, I must say that, of course, my group, my party, myself, fully and radically subscribe to this principle, as it cannot be otherwise, and we commit ourselves to continuing to work effectively for it. And how is it not going to be so, if liberalism has been the first and main defender of the citizen, as a subject of rights – and not the territories, by the way –, the main defender of the equality of all citizens, in the face of the privileges of a few and of personal freedom above all. And, in coherence, I take this opportunity to condemn without palliatives something that has perhaps not been mentioned sufficiently and which is particularly important or which touches our hearts especially, which is child labour and forced or compulsory labour, situations that are now occurring in the world more often than I suppose we all want, and which constitute a terrible violation of the most fundamental human rights. But, in order to get to the bottom of the proposal, it is necessary to ask ourselves what we mean here today by precarious work, that is, not decent work. On the one hand, we must understand that this is non-legal work, that is, work that does not comply with the current labour legislation, work without contract, with wages below the minimum established, without social security contributions or with wages in black. In all these cases, what we can and should do is, simply and directly, denounce it and bring it to court because legality must prevail. These situations of non-legal work occur mainly in the pockets of submerged economy, which represent up to 17% of the Basque economy and that we should ask ourselves what we are doing today to rescue all those people who are in that situation and in those pockets. Another issue is whether we consider temporary employment not decent or precarious, and with this we must have a little more care, because not all temporary employment is precarious. There are people who only want part-time employment and there are companies that only need part-time workers. This flexibility in the labour market is good, as long as the law is respected, of course, as in everything. Another thing is that it is used to replace fixed employment with tied temporary contracts, a practice that is already legally pursued, and another is the enormous deployment of types of contracts with different levels of rights that our labour legislation currently has and that unnecessarily complicates management, recruitment and control, inspection. The question is what we can do about it. The proposal we are debating today calls on the Basque Government to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, but the reality is that in Basque we have two Labour Inspections, one from the State for Social Security, and one from the Basque Government for labour relations and the prevention of labour risks, both with officials from the same national body, which is obviously dysfunctional. But we have been talking to them and we do not believe that there is a problem of scarcity of resources; neither do they believe it, although, of course, it is always desirable to make an objective and independent assessment of the resources available according to the objective, according to the need and the working procedures, in order to optimize them and ensure the fulfilment of their mission, which is our proposal; that is, a reassessment is always desirable. A proposal that also includes something that we have been defending for years at national level and that we will also do here: the single and indefinite contract as a way to solve the problem of the multitude of contracts. In Euskadi we have one of the highest temporality indices in Spain. The data shows that, of 62,541 contracts signed in Euskadi last November, 57,814 have been temporary and only 4,727 fixed; that is, 92,45 % of contracts signed have been temporary, while the national average is 91,16 %. The single contract would end up with a pen with this problem, which we have no doubt that it will end up imposing itself sooner than later, as would the Austrian backpack, also proposed by our group. With regard to point three of the proposal, to ensure that the Administration does not engage with companies that have repeated sanctions, we must say that we believe that this does not contribute anything, because that is exactly what the law already puts in place; another thing is that it is not being complied with. We therefore propose the effective and rigorous application of article 54 of the Law on the Prevention of Occupational Risks, which provides for a very clear prohibition on the public administration from hiring companies that have been sanctioned for serious occupational safety and health offences, applying a system of bonuses in the hiring of companies with low rates of injury and malus to companies with high rates of injury. At this point, we wonder: if an audit were to be carried out right now, would all the companies contracted by the Basque Government, for example, for major infrastructure works, comply with this part of the law or would we be forced to stop immediately all the works that are currently being carried out? No one agrees more than we are in compliance with the law, and also in this case. With regard to point four, the initial proposal, which was then not moved to the transaction, we are in the usual situation: the good is the public and it needs to be enhanced, and the private is bad and it needs to be reduced. Well, our opinion is less dogmatic, and it is that some services are better to be public and others can be hired to private companies, because it is more effective and often cheaper. With regard to point 5, which has also not been transferred to the transactional of the proposal, he says that a work plan guaranteed by the Administration to avoid precarious contracts should be put in place, therefore, little to say. If the Administration hires everyone, then, of course, unemployment and precariousness are over. We are, again, proposing the state of the economy, which so longs for certain groups in this House and seems to them to be the solution to all the problems. It is a pity that in all the communist dictatorships in which it was applied it did not work, and today all these countries are looking, quickly, towards a market economy. In short: yes, of course, the defence of decent, legal and free work; yes to the single contract as a way of definitively solving the problem of temporality; yes to the improvement of the effectiveness of the Labour Inspectorate, and yes to the effective enforcement of the law, which prohibits the hiring of companies with severe penalties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u48	Thank you, Mr. Gil. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u49	Yes, ma'am, Congressman, good day to you all. We have been talking a great deal in this legislature, as we have often said here, of a decent employment, which is derived from employment of quality. And I've said it before, but it's very positive for me in this way. We will come sometimes to the agreements, not in others, but in the discussions which are involved, I believe, well, they may be very positive in the way we can do it, or in the way we ought to do it, if it be true, as I said before, to obtain a proper employment for all, though not for everyone who knows it to be one of the first axiss, is it not? I think Pode... Podemosko... Jesus! That Mr. Hernandez of Podemos has brought the analysis of the matter very well to this legislature, either by bringing Caritas' text or by using that text? It's just the passing of this genuine azken ezagutu... ezagutu genituen azken enplegu-datuak. Deputy Councillor Elena Pérez noted that the number of unemployed was reduced in November by 6,035. Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia chain up, therefore, the third consecutive month of unemployment, but there are still 14,000 people, more than 14,000 people, in ERTE, and we do not know what will happen to them. Surely that's why the vice-counsel was asking for caution, and we are very much in agreement with her. He also pointed out – he said, provided... – other data related to the decrease in unemployment by territory, sex and so on, but he also pointed out the 62,541 recruitments made in the Basque Autonomous Community, of which only 7.56% have been of an indefinite nature. A temporality that is linked to the partial employment rate, which is 37.5, which is higher than 50% for women. For me, the most remarkable of the appearance, and I say this in positive and with total honesty, is that the Vice-Employment Councillor, Elena Pérez, expressed her concern about the persistence of precariousness, which has been dragging itself since before the pandemic, in a structural way, and which has been sharpened as an effect of the current crisis. She said it and I didn't say it, although I do. I believe, indeed, that these statements to be put into value, not only in order to express uneasiness, but that the deputy-captain accepted, like our groups, what the social agents had so often said: that prerogative is structural in us, that it is permanent, that it is maintained, and that it is not the effect of covida. That he had already existed in ours, and that now he has increased. And, as I said, I'd like to put this statement of the vice-president because they're of great political charge. Up to now, the government did not seem to understand the situation; it did not take consciousness, or would not admit of the anxiety of the situation. And that's why they're worth it. Even in the last discussion or conversation we had, about the motion our group brought to this House, about the need for a country pact for quality employment, you were talking about well-built bases, but then came the pandemic and it upset everything. They also said that the situation was not bad, that things had been done well, but that we had unfinished subjects. But I believe that these words of the vice-counsel, which, as we said, we share, indicate that we have something more than an outstanding subject; we have a structural problem, which is also persistent. I do not like this being said in the atrium, but it seems to me that this is an amendment to the whole of what has been tried to sell from this Government or the previous Government so far. We have so often brought into this legislature the data of the incest of social poverty and inequality, the Fosssa data, the data that shows that the dignity of our society's employment is falling into the prepotence of life. I want to repeat three facts, because they are important and disturbing to me looking at the future. And these are also given by Caritas' Foesssa Foundation. This rate of unemployment, so much praised, when it was 10%, was a rate of jobs at 195% in this country. It was 100,000 people who, if they had jobs, didn't come to the end of the month, and 340, 340,000! The data is prior to pandemia, and, as has so often been said, show the precursion of the anti-determination of the citizens who were living with their biological dignity. And that's how the pandems got us. And consider that, when we speak of morality, of stability and security, in all the realms of our life, we speak of the impossibility of satisfying the material and social needs that make up our project of life, of the preparation of life. And as has been said before, for a people who wish to be worthy, this is a complete failure, a failure in grave words. This is also to say, from the point of view of a political project, which the several groups support the Government, they do not like, but is so from the point of view of life. And hitherto they have not been able to subvert it; they have not been able to supply it with that stability and security which the citizens require. We don't talk about a lesson that we've been through. For us, we are facing a first-rate political matter, and it is essential that we should take the strategic dimension of the theme, because we cannot allow ourselves to naturalize and chronify it as a property of our projects of life. And in contrast to this, because to take consciousness and to speak of the crudeness of the situation is essential to us. Lehen milako audi politicako beat aurrean egonik, horri egokittutako antolakuntza, mekanism eta strategy iraunkorrak behar say uste dugu guk, ez transbertsalak, lehen malako strategyk. Because we don't have a cross-cutting problem. We have a reality as real as unemployment. And it does not require transversal actions, but direct and measurable actions. We now brought here a proposal to build this strategy for weeks together, which belongs to a first-rate political question, and to produce a popular authority in the country of the country. He didn't go ahead. But even in this discussion we drew very interesting things, with some kind of national resignation. This is why we think we need a very strong strategy of employment and worthy employment, and against predominance, which we do not see at the moment. We don't recognize a light on the strategic site of promotement in high-quality employment, which doesn't mean we don't see steps, or we don't put them in value. But it's still hard for us to find out the lines of the course of this department, the real ones, because perhaps we're still at the beginning. Momentum dugun bakarra, eskuartean dugun bakarra, da Berpiztu programa, éta Gobernua sustangatzen duten taldeek horri egin zioten aipamena emendakinetan, éta Gobernu-programa. Eta hor, aurrekoan era esan genuen, bainsa oso deigorria da Berpiztu programak berak beroak beroetako emaitzen artean ez jasotzea enpleguaren kalitearen inguruko inolako emaitzarik. The Berpiztu programme does not have any expected results in relation to the quality of employment, perhaps because, as on other occasions, and we know the consequences of this strategy, because again, quality in employment remains somewhat cross-cutting. En todo caso, the groups that proposed the initiative today have closed an agreement with the groups that support the government. And we also thank the effort of bringing us to this agreement, both by Mr. Hernandez and by the representatives of the teams supporting the government. But, well, pues, as I said before, sometimes we come to terms and sometimes we don't get there. In any case, we don't want to be in the way of this agreement. Bath... bathe egia da guretzat the agreement has interesting elements. It is interesting for us to note that we want to keep open the channels of dialogue with the Department of Employment for social, institutional and also political actors, which for us this in itself is also a relevant element, because it is almost an amendment to the monologue practice of this Government, thus putting it in value. But we still need to know what we are going to contribute or how we are going to contribute or what that framework is going to be. Surely, if that avenue of interlocution remains open, we will be able to resolve those elements. It also seems to us that, with regard to that 2030 Employment Strategy, there are still many other elements that we could talk about, right? But, above all, there are two elements that have led us a little out of this agreement, which have pushed us away from this agreement: To make sure, first, that we need new powers and powers of execution, both of our own and powerful business policy, to penetrate into the hands we now possess, and to reach our social social and social reality, because we believe that we need new powers and jurisdictions to produce them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u50	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u51	Yeah, I'm done right away. And this here, in this Assembly of Laws, is an agreement already obtained, to require the intervention of passive Businesse. And we've missed it, even though we know that the will to take it might be irrefutable. And the second point and the main element is for us, that 2030 of the Eplegu strategy, that political conversation about the funds in Europe might have been gas to us from the agreement. And this is an inevitable element for us in this case. In any case, as was said, we are condemned to hope, and if the roads are opened, we shall continue our work together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u53	Thank you, President. And thank you... and hello, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. On 5 November, as has been said here, we had an opportunity to talk about quality employment and decent work, on the basis of the subsequent motion for an inquiry raised by EH Bildu. At that time, this House has already adopted a number of commitments, which are fully in force today, but it was not possible to reach a compromise. However, I believe that the good tone that was lived in that debate – and that is also being lived in this – as well as the many common ground approaches that we have made by the parliamentary groups, prompted us to seek ways of coincidence in an area in which I humbly believe that we have the vast majority of the groups that sit here more in common than points that separate us. And today, finally, we have managed to broaden the consensus, on the basis of a good compromise agreement, which, I believe, coincides with what the citizens of Euskadi are asking of all of us. In this respect, I would like to thank Mr Hernández, the proposing group, Podemos, for his negotiating attitude, which has led us to reflect, today in this agreement, concrete commitments to achieve that common objective. Because they will remember that I, already in the plenary on November 5, said that I firmly believe – and I say it again –... I firmly believe that all of us sitting in this Parliament share the common objective of creating jobs and that, in the area of employment, the central objective must be to create quality jobs. And that objective is an objective that we, of course, share with the Socialists, but it is also a challenge that has been proposed and that this Government has assumed as its own in its entirety and within its sphere of competence. This is reflected in both the Government Agreement and the Government Programme. Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia has expressed on many occasions that it is true that the Government is not the main generator of employment, but governments, she also says, create the conditions for companies to generate jobs and governments to also establish the framework and guarantees for that job to be decent and for that job to be of quality. We have never hidden that there is a clear road map that has already marked this Government and to which it has publicly committed itself. We have a well-defined guide; first, the Government Programme, which incorporates a good number of initiatives linked to this goal of decent work and quality employment, 12 commitments and 37 concrete initiatives. We also have the Berpiztu programme, which has high-quality employment as a priority, from a cross-cutting vision of the Government and with the rest of the institutions. And also with the new 2030 Employment Strategy and its future developments. On the basis of what has been built in recent times, and counting on socio-economic actors, this strategy will aim to introduce a country vision that promotes the creation of decent jobs with decent wages, with labour rights, as a cross-cutting axis of public policies of all Basque institutions. But that commitment challenges us all absolutely. And, as we have said on many occasions, we are absolutely ready to receive contributions to that road map, without requiring in return accession contracts and much less acts of faith. It is being done from the beginning of the legislature, with social actors and economic actors, with the Social Dialogue Bureau, which is the best instrument for concerted public policies in favour of employment, and where all agents have their seats and can contribute, with experts and entities, as we saw at the last Employment Congress, held on 26 and 27 November in Bilbao. And we also want to do with the reflections and contributions that the different parliamentary groups can and want to move to improve that road map. In the middle of November 13, Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia announced a round of meetings with all the groups, which is taking place. It was not the first time that the Government had expressed its willingness to have input from the various political groups as well. And with this compromise amendment we are taking one more step today, which comes to affect the sincere will, shown by Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia, to give way to anyone who wishes to contribute. And so we include the commitment to refer to this House the 2030 Employment Strategy, 2020-30, sorry!, to be debated and put to the vote by the House groups. And I think that's a very good deal. In addition, point 2 of the compromise amendment contains a good number of subjects to address in the design of this strategy, to introduce a country vision, for a model of work with rights and guarantees, and also the commitment to incorporate specific goals and targets in the development of strategies in relation to the fight against job insecurity. In the third point of the compromise amendment, we acknowledge the commitment to strengthen labour inspection in order to further reduce fraudulent contracts, including new specific actions. In point 4, we call for a specific campaign in relation to the equality plans of companies with staff of more than 50 people. In point 5, we call on all the institutions of the Autonomous Community to strengthen the instruments for the coordinated development of employment policies, to link them with the promotion of quality employment, including public employment and the incorporation of social clauses guaranteeing the quality of employment. I sincerely believe that this is a very complete compromise agreement, in which a large part of this House can be reflected, and most importantly, in which a large part of Basque citizenship will be reflected, which contains very concrete commitments and I believe that the hours devoted to trying to achieve this have been worth it, because it is for the benefit of our citizens. I therefore ask you to support this compromise amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u54	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u55	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning to all. In our opinion, we must guide the future as a co-worker, and not as a confession. Times are difficult. We're living difficult times. It would be a good thing to be a part of all the economic and social agencies of the legislature and the Basque Country. It's up to all of us to make a greater effort. Administration, of course, but the others too. We want to put unemployment back below 10%. We have said it over and over again; but, with the same insistence, we have said that we do not want any job, that we want decent jobs, decent jobs, without exclusion, with just and adequate conditions, with protection and vital security, with opportunities for personal development, a job that promotes and protects the participation of the worker, that seeks a fair and equitable distribution of wealth, that reduces the environmental impact, with decent wages, with protection of labour rights, with innovation, equality, stability, training... And this I believe is in the shared definition, as we were able to conclude in the last debate on 5 November, as has been recalled here. And all these are not empty words of content; they are commitments, commitments that the lehendakari and this government have signed with Basque society. And these are commitments that are going to be fulfilled. This, Mr Hernandez, as you say, is to come down to the mud of the world of work, in my opinion. We will continue to work for it. We have experienced complicated times in the past, with crises and high unemployment rates and, as a society, we have been able to respond, and now we are going to do it again. And I would like to return to that debate on 5 November, a motion after Mrs Kortajarena's question, to correct one of my words. I told Mrs Kortajarena that she disappointed me; I said she had a procedural disappointment, by calling her in a way, with her way of acting. I told him that, arguing that there was another initiative on this issue, which had previously brought us Mr Hernández's motion, through a non-legislative proposal on decent work, which we are debating today. I told him that you, on the one hand, were speaking to us both in your inquiry and in the subsequent motion to deal with this issue calmly, with time, but that, on the other hand, you had programmed your motion to enter into the full debate before Mr Hernández's non-law proposal. And that I considered contradictory. I told him I could have waited a week and accumulated them. Here's my rectification. It is true that they could have been treated cumulatively, but that does not mean that that alone is the right way to do it. Mrs Kortajarena, your initiative made sense when you dealt with it on 5 November. Mr Hernandez, your initiative does make sense to treat you today as well. That was a debate that Mrs Kortajarena raised focused on the definitions, as we have seen, on which we could conclude that we were essentially in agreement, and on the methodology, on which it became clear that we were far apart. And yet, in my opinion, the debate that you bring us today, Mr Hernández, focuses on more specific but very quiet issues. The truth is that the good tone of that day, like today's, made me reconsider my approach. I am now focusing on your initiative, Mr Hernández, and I am going to analyse it in some detail. Its justification, the two basic ideas: to confront precariousness, to pursue fraud in terms of temporality and partiality, and to confront urgently the new reality of employment, to increase the unemployment resulting from the reduction of productive and economic activity as a result of the health crisis. Obviously, they are approaches with which we agree, although it is true that we, perhaps, carry them with some epithet less, but they are certainly shared. That is why you propose to us to face this reality and to present us with this non-legislative proposal. A five-point initiative: a commitment to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate with quantitative, qualitative and evaluable objectives and targets, requiring compliance with labour regulations and collective agreements, enhancing the role of public services and coordinating institutions in the face of precarious recruitment. The truth is, as soon as I first read his initiative, I could see that we were close. That same day, I began to look for each of the references you made in the Government Programme of this legislature. "Compromise to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate and with quantitative, qualitative and evaluable objectives and targets", perfectly determined in the three initiatives that develop commitment 9 of the Government Programme, which focuses and is entitled "Fight against Labour Fraud and Strengthening the Labour Inspectorate" and develops the first of the chapters of that programme. And that is also their priority, the priority of this government, employment. "With the requirement of compliance with labour regulations and collective agreements", embodied in the initiative 8 of commitment 150, whose objective is to manage public resources responsibly. With regard to the purpose of your initiative, Mr Hernández, it promotes public procurement in the service of social responsibility and quality employment, pursuing transparent and responsible public management. Because, beyond mere modernization, it is necessary to undertake a stage that drives the redesign of the Administration, in order to better respond to the new demands and demands of the citizenry. "Powering the role of public services." And you focus the debate on education, health and care, that is, on people, and on people working for people. All axis 2 of our Government Programme, 72 commitments, which focus on 323 initiatives. People are the essential element of the political commitment to the government action. People are really important; that is to say, the ultimate aim of all public policies. Our commitment to everyone is to fix public health and education services. And it also said to us "coordinating the institutions against precarious recruitment", as reflected in our commitments 7 and 17. From that analysis, the need to agree on a joint text appeared almost as a logical sequence, because, as I said at the beginning, we have to focus the future from collaboration, and not from confrontation, to the challenges fundamentally that we are living in these very complicated times. Undoubtedly it is an asset to be able to collaborate by providing solutions in terms of quality employment. It is up to us all to make a greater effort, and with this agreement we are on the right track, as I understand it. I firmly believe that collaboration has improved the text of the original initiative, as Mr Rico also pointed out. And although we keep its structure at five points, it is clearly much more compact. In essence, we have condensed in points 3, 4 and 5, these three political formations, the core of the initiative: the need to further strengthen the Labour Inspectorate; the promotion of specific campaigns, such as those related to equality plans, which I have already pointed out, in companies; and the empowerment of all the instruments available to public administrations for the coordinated development of public policies that pursue quality employment. And in points 1 and 2 we have marked the path to meet this essential challenge. I sincerely believe that this agreement is a solid basis for strengthening quality employment. We need alliances to respond to people's needs. We must live up to what is asked of us. We must add to our efforts to defend decent and dignified work. We are aware of the consequences of precarious work. Unfortunately, we see and suffer in our surroundings: families and vulnerable lives, broken stories, truncated plans for the future. Realities that demand our commitment and our agreement. This parliamentary group, our parliamentary group, the Government and the lehendakari have an agenda to achieve this objective: quality employment, which is the nuclear element of a people-centred economic model. A social priority at this time of crisis and uncertainty. I only have to recognize you, Mr Hernández, and Mr Rico, in these days, in these last days so peculiar, special or I don't know how to say it, no, different, your proactive attitude pursuing the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u56	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Zuzenketarik aurkeztu ez duten taldeen txandara pasatuz, Mistoa. Martinez anderea, zurea da hitza. (Mikrofonoa itzalita hitz egin du)... talking about work today is an obligation; that is why I welcome this kind of initiative in Parliament. The situation was already bad, in many cases, before the pandemic, and now, as we suffer, the situation is simply disastrous.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u57	Talking about decency at work has to do, following the RAE, with dignity at work, according to the state or quality of the work. A decent job, in short, is that that allows the person to develop his life, that allows him to have some personal satisfaction and that allows him to grow, beyond his initial conditions. Of course, we could further detail the conditions for decent work; but, given the time I have, I think it is clear where we are going. Mr Jon Hernández is often right with his diagnoses regarding the situation of workers and companies, especially those in the Basque Country. There have already been a number of initiatives in which we have talked about labour matters, and it is fair to say that you know in detail and in depth when it comes to going to the essence of the problem. No one can deny that there is precariousness; no one can deny that there are working conditions that do not favor the development of people. Nor can we deny that the agreements are not always complied with. There are multiple circumstances in which the relationship between employer and employee ends up leading to abuse. The point is that, although we can agree on many of the points, as I said, not all of the solutions it offers seem right to me. We agree that the Labour Inspectorate must be strengthened and equipped with weapons in order to be able to carry out its work more effectively and more effectively. We also agree where it calls for a quantifiable programme with objectives to combat job insecurity. We also agree on non-contracting by the Administration with companies that have sanctions for violating labour rights. But this is what the law already collects at its base and, therefore, we should strive to enforce the law. However, I cannot accept the tendency that it has to solve everything with the public. But this has not been included in the compromise amendment, which I like. In Vox we believe that the problems reported, or at least the bulk of them, would be solved, as far as point one of the initiative is concerned, with an important reinforcement of the Inspection to ensure that the law is complied with, that no one can abuse their position. And the truth is that if we guarantee this matter, the Inspection, much of that precariousness will fall by its own weight. I have many things left in my mind, such as the question of temporality, which is another central axis of your proposal. But since I don't have time to discuss it as it deserves, I leave it in the tinker. However, as you know, in Vox we advocate the need to simplify existing contracts. I recognize that, beyond the model of contract, which is a very broad debate and which has to do with the nature of our economic system, without a doubt, with a simplification of the models of contract, much of the temporality would be over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u58	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. We'll take the answers turn. Together, Mr. Henández is the representative of the Animite Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u59	Good. I thank the speakers for their speeches, because I am not going to – after an agreement, above all – today... I will not insist on the view that we can deserve what the Basque Government has done to date or what we believe are the priorities of the Basque Government or the different vision that we see about certain elements and words that are reflected in the different electoral programmes, government programmes, etc. I am not going to insist on that difference that we have, a difference of vision on what the Basque Government has been doing, obviously, but I am not going to insist, of course, on it today, when we have an agreement which, I believe, is good and which, as I said, marks a good direction. I think it marks a good direction for the department, in particular, but I believe that the whole Basque government – it puts it on the initiative – and also for other institutions on which it affects. Mr Rico said that much of the citizenship will be reflected in this agreement. I wish. I don't know if that's true, because I really believe that citizens, workers, workers... In their jobs, when they are suffering that reality – which obviously does not suffer everyone, but yes, as has been said, and I think this is also a value of the initiative, it also recognizes that it is structural – when they are in that reality, these kinds of papers usually take them very far away, a proposition not of law; they take away the laws. Sometimes, it takes away the convention that is applicable to them, which they often do not even know; sometimes, they have difficulty simply knowing that they have an implementing agreement, and therefore a non-law proposal, because it surely catches them very far. But yes, I wish. I hope because if you walk from the Government and from the institutions in the direction of what this transaction says, because, of course, we think that it will have a positive impact on the lives and working conditions of the working women and men of this country, because the Government..., you said, Mr. Rico, that governments create the framework. I suppose you agree with me that not only do you create the framework – and one of the things that I've had a lot of impact on and that it's included in the transaction is that, in addition, you must ensure that the conditions are guaranteed – but not just create the framework, because undecent work is not just, as I said before, limited to the type of recruitment. And, of course, the idea that I cannot share, in any way, is the one that Mr. Gil Vegas moves. I guess it doesn't surprise you, when he said that undecent work is not legal work. I have already insisted on this idea: there are hundreds, thousands... of workers who are subject, even, to legal conditions, who suffer from precarious work; that there are, because – I don't remember the data – but I think it was around 20% of people receiving GIR – I don't remember the data, I think it was so – workers who, however, have to resort to such a benefit. That can't be a decent job in any way. And that job, perfectly, can be within the law. Precarity in the world of work does not respond to a single indicator; it is a cluster of things. Moreover, it is a cluster of things that are daily, that are dynamic, that are changing, and on which governments therefore have to act continuously. It's not just a piece of legislation, however good it is. And, of course, we do not share that Labour Inspectorate has sufficient tools. We have always valued the work done by the labour inspectors; we know what they are doing. But I have seen the work inspector's desks full of folders and, many times, of complaints. And sometimes the response times, not because they do their job wrong, but because there's a lot of work. And also, beyond the work of complaints, beyond the work of the campaigns that are done, is that there is a lot of work to do to get to places where, normally, you don't get there. Therefore, we think that yes, that we need more resources, and not just more resources, but, as the agreement we have reached gathers, the resources – and to me it seems a very important expression –... sufficient resources to ensure decent employment and to ensure that, of course, the existing legality is kept to a minimum. And we don't share the idea of a single contract either. I guess you know that, Mr. Gil Vegas. It is true that there may be too many types of contracts, but the single contract is not going to solve anything. It is true that there are different situations for which different contracts can be useful. An indefinite single contract, for example, with a piece of shit compensation, will not be better than a temporary contract with a piece of shit compensation. I assure you. That's not the solution. Well, besterik ez. Eskerrik asko to all the speakers, for their interventions and for the agreement to those who have signed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u60	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Gil has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Nothing, simply to congratulate the signatory groups on the compromise amendment. I recognize that it has several virtues, and one of them is that it has managed to draw from the discourse of Podemos this nineteenth-century dialectic of classes, of working class struggle against capitalists, etc. Mr Rico has said that this agreement, this amendment, will perhaps have a translation to the citizens; well, that is a problem that, in fact, I think we are going to have. That is to say, I do share with Mr Hernández that this is taking people very far, and I am afraid that, in fact, the amendment remains somewhat, I do not know whether to call it loose, soft, that is, that it does not really transfer solutions to the problems of people who are in precarious situations. With regard to the last comments, only two things. On the one hand, I have not said that the only type of precariousness is illegality, but it is one of the forms. And as far as the single contract is concerned, I would like us to be clear on two issues, which are the type of contract and the compensation associated with that contract. I mean, what we have today are different contracts with different rights, and what it would be about is having a type of contract with equal conditions for everyone. Just, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u62	Thank you, Mr. Gil. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u63	Yes, I am grateful for this surrender of Mr. Arianz's, I am really grateful. And then I'd just like to make a few little comments on this replication. I've mentioned it before, but we're talking about an Eplegu strategy for 2030, so we're talking about something that's beyond this law, and maybe more than this government and groups supporting this government. And I was just saying that it could be gasoline, that it could be gas, that we could use gas to drive that strategy, that Europe's funding, right? I think it was necessary, in our opinion, that the privileges of the European funds should be directed by the privilege of resolving the foundations of Europe, and of deciding between political and social institutions, public and social operating institutions, and of determining the process. Although we saw him yesterday, and we're seeing him last time, we're not supposed to be disputos a solitar el Balón. Then, too, Mr. Hernandez had previously mentioned the difficulty in the process of the previous law that labour and employment were divided into two different sections, no? And to us, too, the power and ability to make our own, strong, and coherent politics, is an indispensable element, by paying special attention to the transfer of passive employment policy. And furthermore, by remarking that we obtained this agreement in this legislature, for example, when we spoke of the want of protection which the labourers suffered. And, really, if we want to perform integration, consistent and effective policies, then all elements, all tools and all hands, are a necessary element for us. And, on the other hand, there was a frame mentioned, wasn't there? That this strategic pathpage is built and that it's in the regenerate program, isn't it? And that always bothers me. Again, it gives me uneasiness, because in this program of government signed by groups of government, and also resurrect, the object is to work, and then, in transvestantially, there is in transversal employment, and this we have lived here, yes? And, I've mentioned it before, but it's very significant to me that in the regenerate program there's no deal about the quality of the job. And that's a problem for me because we've already said we're not a transverse problem, we have a reality as we have a problem of unemployment, and it's just as real predominance. And therefore this demands for us a specially stocked, coherent, and resources of the strategic structure. Here is a dichotomy for me; that is to say, it is not the same to promote employment, or to promote a proper employment. And, for example, it's mentioned in the resurrect program that I haven't got the numbers in my head. The Mountain Chief is here, and he will know them, or the groups supporting the government... but they are cited to encourage many employments, I do not know how many they are, and there is a great sum of money to promote them. But there's no mention of what these jobs will be like. And that's what we've lived in this town. Then, when we merely encourage employment, we still support those presecrations which we have hitherto done. When we encourage quality employment, and maintain employments that are only of quality with money, we open the means of restoring their lives to the workers. And to me this is an essential element. And I intend, for example, to make an effort to correct it in this agreement, or just in this medium, which has come to pass. For 2030, it is said, that in the Emplegue Strategy, there will be a set of ends connected with high-quality employment and worthy employment, and even the indicators of measuring them. So, in any case, the conversation will continue, and we will find ourselves on the way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u65	Thank you, Madam President. I've always thought it's a shame that in the second round we have five minutes, because that's when we get more excited and when we get out of the most prepared debates we bring, right? Where to start? Look, I'm proud of this deal. I think it's a good deal and I ratify the words. I think it's a deal that's good for Euskadi's citizenship. And I also believe that this message is important, because the opposite would be to defend the activity of this Parliament. That is to say, to say that the amendments do not reach the citizenry is as much as to say that the initiatives that you present as opposition do not reach the citizenry either. It is to suggest that only the measures taken by the Executive reach the citizenry. And here, precisely, what we are doing is linking it; there is a hand extended by the Executive to build, together with the rest of the groups in this House, the 2030 Strategy. And I think that is very positive, and I will say this: it is a good agreement for the citizenry, and it is an agreement that will reach the citizenry, through the measures that will then be implemented directly by the government. I, with regard to some of the things that have been said, also scare Mr. Gil Vegas, but I don't see it so bad either; I don't see it so bad either. In fact, I will tell you that what Mr Hernández has done, making a account of how social conquests have been made, has simply been a historical and reliable account of how these social conquests have been made, with the hard work of the workers, of the unions – and they will allow me – and of the Socialist Party, which has been transferring to the institutions for a few years, precisely all these social conquests in the different governments. I also disagree that legal work is decent work by itself. In fact, having that concept would prevent us from evolving; any legal work that has been legal at a given time could have been considered decent work, and that definition is not for me. I believe that, in fact, legal work has to be fulfilled because it is the conditions of legality that are given. But, of course, there is the possibility that we will address improvements that need to be addressed by the evolution of the times itself, and that is the big difference, and that is why I do not agree, Mr Gil Vegas, with the equalization of legal work and decent work. Furthermore, I agree with what Mr Hernández put forward: the concept that we have of decent work also involves the repeal of certain reforms that took place at the stage of the People's Party Government. And a point, which I do want to make, Mr Hernández, when he mentioned what the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, said the other day. A month earlier Yolanda Díaz said: "The changes to labor reform have to be made with social dialogue; it's not about running." And I have already announced to you, I reiterate to you what the Minister spokeswoman of the Government has said. Of course, that does not mean transferring a veto, a possibility of a veto to employers, let alone to employers, trade unions and the government itself. With regard to the issues raised by EH Bildu, I believe that we do have to have clearly the one where we come from, to know where we want to go and how we can get there, and not to cheat on the lonely. And there's a fact that I think is indisputable, and it's that, before the pandemic, the economic indicators in Euskadi were positive. And that is a fact that we do have to take into account; because, if we want to make progress, we need to know where we come from. From there, he told us that they see no steps; man, I think there are some very clear steps, I told him before, the program Berpiztu, etc., etc.; but, well, there is a clear investment, of 13,250 million – I tell you the amount I asked Vicelehendakari. There is a clear commitment to innovation, equality, social dialogue and concertation, occupational health, strengthening of labour inspection, the transformation of the Basque public employment system, the new strategy we have talked about and inter-institutional collaboration. And I believe those are concrete, established steps. Now there's a road map, which during... on many occasions Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia has proposed it to us, which begins after the Berpiztu programme, with this 2030 Strategy, a strategy, and I say it again, that it opens to the incorporation into this road map that has marked the Government of the contributions that the different parliamentary groups want to make. And that is why – and I finish with this – it seems very important to me that a government with an absolute majority in this House should decide to bring that strategy to this House for motions for resolutions, for debate and motions for resolutions by the groups. I believe it is a step towards us all joining this struggle in which we agree on decent work. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u66	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarz, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u67	Eskerrik asko. Simply and very briefly to clarify an issue that I wanted to clarify to you, Mrs Kortajarena, referring to an idea, the idea of proportionality; that I recognize outstanding subjects, as I have done on more than one occasion or as I continue to do, or that I recognize that some of those outstanding subjects are prior to the pandemic, as the vice-counsel did, does not necessarily mean or does not imply that everything is a global failure in the world of employment, nor does it necessarily imply that I make an amendment to the whole policy of this Government; one thing does not imply the other. I make it clear to you that I don't mind or dislike you using that terminology either; you can continue to use it, and it's your right, right?, without any problem whatsoever, but you won't bother me. I simply consider it a terminology or a disproportionate image. To recognize outstanding subjects first of all, and in my view the most valuable, is to identify specific areas of improvement on which to continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u68	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. My missile shouldn't say a word. So, the discussion's over, we're going to vote. Together we'll vote for Podemos-Nozzeral, Euskal Socialists, and the middle-line corrections that the Eucators have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 39; the votes are 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 0, 0; abstainments, 27; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u69	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "The other proposition of the same as that of the parliamentary band of myths, the proclamation of the common and indivisible nation of Spain, which is the unity of Spain in the Basque Parliament, and of all the Spaniards. Discipline and final resolution. It's the caller's turn. Myst, Madam Martínez, is your word to introduce and take part in the enterprise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u70	Good morning. Today we bring to this House the debate of the Constitution, as it cannot be otherwise, after the 6th of December, in which we celebrate the Day of the Constitution. The debate that we are bringing to this House today will allow us to know who is who, a smaller prize when what is at stake is the Spanish Constitution, from which this institution emanates and which gives cover to all the people we meet here, as is also at stake the unity of Spain itself. Those who are committed to putting an end to what they call the 78th Regime know. They know who encouraged bombs, murders, kidnappings and extortion, so that it would never become. Those who today have put a balance price on their nation to remain in power know that. Arriving at the present moment has not been easy; it has been a road full of obstacles, with enormous tensions and extreme violence. A path bathed in blood until ETA preferred to change strategy. Radical nationalisms never wanted a peaceful transition; hence express support for assassinations, kidnappings, extortions and threats; hence this double game which is defined as democratic nationalism: "I condemn, but I also take advantage of the situation in my own interest". We, Vox, arrived with the firm intention of defending our Constitution and the unity of Spain for the sake of equality between the Spanish, without complexes, neither in Catalonia, Galicia, Extremadura or the Basque Country. But what have others come to? What do others claim? The answer is obvious in some cases; their intentions are clear and public, and cloudy in others. That is the case right now of the PSOE, a party that yields to the extreme left and gallant to secessionists and independenceists, while denying the word to the right. We who defend national unity are enemies, and the enemy neither water nor the word; only insults or sanitary cords, such as that practiced in this Parliament. We can also govern, without having renounced its goal of ending the 78th Regime, ending the Constitution and making a nation of nations a reality, being very understanding, as Mr. Iglesias confessed, with the vile terrorism of the ETA Mafia. We also have Bildu, with a gentleman at the front, who 20 years ago accused the State of the death of three terrorists, whose own bomb broke into their hands. He came to say, with obvious anger, that the fallen are companions; for these same are priority partners of the Tandem Sánchez-Iglesias, a party that, without complexes, rejects our Constitution and announces the beginning of the road towards the Basque Republic. We also have the PNV, with its particular vision of that loyalty, always inclined towards the one he can get the most out of, the one he can get the most out of. Practitioners are, no doubt! And now they play with fear, because their partner, the man who has made a lie as his sign of identity, has shown his lack of scruples and has already told that there are other possible pacts, which even the Basque Government could change title. By the way, and so I return to the central theme of this proposal; this PNV denies legitimacy to the support of the Constitution in the Basque Country for the high abstention that has been recorded here, almost identical to that of the last autonomous elections, which this time have indeed resulted in a legitimate government. Words resist everything; reality does not. With this, the question that I raised to the lehendakari regarding institutional stability comes to my head. At that time, he told me that it is essential to guarantee it, in order to give stability to families and businesses. And more in the context in which we find ourselves. Does institutional stability mean that the Constitution does not serve in the Basque Country? That the future of your Basques goes by approving your own Constitution? Well, I'm Basque too. Of Basque nationalism and what remains of ETA terrorism we expect absolutely nothing. Their ends are clear, and they are clear to everyone who wants to see them. That's why I look a little bit more at the Socialist Party. Today we offer your representatives in this Parliament an opportunity to certify what I know that some of your colleagues do defend. Today I offer you the opportunity to forget about sanitary cordons, to put aside the partisan dispute and vote in favour of this initiative to ensure the stability of our region. The strength of our Constitution is fundamental to ensuring that the consequences of the exercise of ETA violence are a thing of the past, and must be so in order to prevent those times from returning. For this reason, I am holding hands with you to say yes to your commitment to the Spanish Constitution, in particular to those two articles which deny the majority political forces in this Parliament. I'm holding hands with them to prove that they are a dam of containment and that they look after the interests of all Spaniards, and that they do not believe that Spain is a remorse of the past, that they are not in the way of Otegi, on its horizon of the republics. Tell us who you are. We do not ask them to share our postulates; we just want to know whether or not they are with the Constitution. We refuse to believe that in his party everyone lies like Pedro Sánchez, because in the democratic game there is no cynicism in the basic principles: either they are with the Constitution, or they announce that they want to reform it. Transparency in the defence of their legitimate interests. Let us take democracy seriously. Let us take citizens as rational beings, with the right to know what are the real objectives of the political parties that ask them to vote. And tell us clearly who is who, who are you, what is the PSE, what does it want today?We can, who are those who profile themselves before the basic law of the State, the Constitution, from which – I insist – this Parliament also emanates. You're the only ones who haven't raised their letters yet. They insist on their hidden game. The Basques have the right to know officially what the position is regarding the principles of our Constitution. And I do not want to end this intervention without defending the principles of the two articles that I call for to be endorsed today in plenary. It is not a matter of principle of authority. The Constitution is good as a dogma. So I'm not going to leave the matter to the dawn of what one and the other can interpret. We ask you to vote in favour of the following: Article 1.2 of the Constitution: "National sovereignty resides in the Spanish people, from whom the powers of the State emanate". The Spanish people as a whole, therefore, are the subject of national sovereignty, and the powers of the State emanate from it. Article 2: "The Constitution is based on the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, the common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards, and recognizes and guarantees the right to autonomy of the nationalities and regions that integrate it and solidarity among them all". I will focus on two key concepts, which are defended in these two articles. The idea of national sovereignty and the idea of solidarity: With regard to the idea of solidarity, thinking on the left, I would like to give a brief reflection on the scope of its reference in Article 2(2). The idea of national sovereignty, together with the idea of solidarity, is the greatest argument we can offer the Spaniards. Union makes strength, and equitable sharing among all Spaniards must be a key objective of politicians. You speak of equality, but you know that equality of law is merely a wet role if we are not able to guarantee material equality, that is, equality in resources among all Spaniards. The covid-19 crisis has shown that together we have more tools, more weapons, more capacity, more strength, to deal with the virus attacks. Together we can give greater coverage to global problems. Services are improved; resources are multiplied by 20, in the case of Euskadi. In conclusion, today, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you would have to tell us whether, as the International says, you are working to bring us all together or, on the contrary, you are also by separation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u71	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over the non-correction teams, Mr. Barrio is the representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadanos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, again, ladies and gentlemen. Well, Mrs Martínez, this is an initiative, a non-legislative proposal, which, unfortunately, will be voted against. And that's a shame. Of course, my group, the People-Citizens parliamentary group, will always be in favour of the Constitution. And, in addition, this initiative allows me, briefly, to talk about the best news that the Basques have had in our history, along with the Statute of Gernika. The Spanish Constitution of 78 and the Statute of Gernika of 79 make an impressive political-democratic framework for development, unprecedented in our land. And in that sense, then, it is good that we continue to ponder it, that we continue to believe in it, and we continue to value it and have it as a reference. In addition, in a week like this, the week of its 42nd anniversary, the week of the Constitution. We support the two articles that you have put in the non-law proposal and the remaining 167, of the 169 – these two plus the remaining 167 – in the same way that we support the transitional provisions, the final provisions; let us not say anything about the additional provisions, that first additional provision, for us an essential element of our self-government and our freedoms, also of our rights, of our history. And, in that sense, we support the whole Constitution. The Constitution as a large body, as a magna charter, as an essential element. Mrs Martínez, if you don't vote for the non-law proposal, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. The Constitution has overtaken the rupturist negotiations; it overwhelms nationalist approaches every day. It is quite clear that the nationalists are going to guard themselves in their vote in relation to something which, moreover, they themselves do protect and defend. But, in any case, the Constitution continues to overlap with the rupturist negotiations, with the issues that affect it... The Constitution is far above a non-legislative proposal. The Magna Charter has a lot of strength, which some undervalue, but it is an insurance of political union; it is also an insurance of freedoms. And the Basque Government has to comply with it, say it or not say it, no. And the lehendakari included. That is why I do not think you are going to vote against the non-legislative proposal today. I don't think he's going to vote for the lehendakari against the non-law proposal. Contribution of a common heritage, the Constitution. It is a sign of identity that unites the whole of the State to which we belong, Spain, and that guarantees us democratic living conditions, freedoms, unimaginable rights 43 years ago. The Constitution, protagonist of key moments for rights, freedoms in Spain, in the Basque Country. These are important moments in social, economic, health, needs, the crisis, the pandemic and our European life. The Constitution of Concord, the Constitution of Europe, the Constitution of the Statutes of Autonomy, the Constitution of Forality and Historical Rights, the Constitution of the defeat of ETA and terrorism, the Constitution which defeated 23-F. Also the Constitution of our traditions, also the Constitution of the Basque Country. Reformed in 1992 and 2011, due to the demands of our membership of the European Union; the first to adapt to the Maastricht Treaty; and the second to set the deficit ceiling. And those that have to be and those that come through consensus or broad agreement, constructive dialogue. A constitution, Mrs Martínez, with solemnity, capable of deploying a self-government incomparably better than that of most of the regional powers of advanced democracies. As someone said, a luxury self-government. Constitution that will certainly last, and that will overcome Churches, will overcome Sanchez, as it has overcome others, because it is a powerful Constitution, because it is European, because it is its own. What does it matter that Otegi or Rufian wants to carry it? They've tried it for 42 years, and there they're still in their historic desperation. Other parties, such as the Basque Nationalist Party, don't look so bad. She's taken good advantage of it. They keep the distance in the speech, but then they hold on to their postulates, their guarantees. They know that the Constitution of 78 develops us and serves us Basques. And they'll have to keep assuming it, as we can all imagine. And if it is to be reformed, I repeat, in depth, it is possible, perhaps necessary, that it be reformed, appealing to that consensus, to that sufficient majority, to that constructive dialogue which will, of course, have to come from the People's and Citizens' Party. That is why we are open to this constructive dialogue, to consensus, to constitutional reference as a basic element, but also to be able to make progress in its reform if necessary. That's right there. And, of course, in conclusion, Madam President, we recall that the Basque yes to the Constitution was 70.2% of the valid vote; the Basque yes to the Constitution was 70.2% of the valid vote, i.e. three times more votes yes to no. That's what the Basques said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u73	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. I don't think Podemos should have a word together. Socialists have. Oh, my God, the word is yours, Mr. Donezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u74	Thank you, ma'am. Paradoxically, the word "unity" does not have a unique meaning and, perhaps, from there, the disagreement between you and us arises. You cling to the first meaning, "everything complete and differentiated from others". We, however, prefer that which defines unity as "a quality of that which is united, not divided." And, look, if you keep looking at the multiple meanings, you'll find that there's another saying "quality of things between whose parties there is agreement or coordination." Look, as in the approval of the General Budgets of the State. The difference between you and us is that our concept of unity is plural, and you, however, are only worth yours. But, actually, when you think about that article 2 of the Constitution, you don't want to talk about unity. You confuse unity with uniformity. You don't want the unit. You want a country that only has the way to understand that you want to impose on us. Its defence of the Constitution is as set and false as its own democratic principles. You only appeal to that article 2 because in the rest, directly, your thought is not fit, well, perhaps, in article 4, in which it says how the flag of Spain is painted; the rest, it gives you absolutely the same or, what is much worse, they are absolutely incompatible with your convictions. You are actively and constantly campaigning against democracy, against the Constitution itself, against political pluralism, which established that same Constitution which you claim to defend, against the autonomous system and against the basic character of the individual and his rights to political order. The Constitution has 169 articles and several additional provisions. But you only name an article on your initiative. Instead of defending it, do not defend it in part, defend it in its entirety, as the Socialists have been doing since the day we created it, for that first article which speaks of Spain as a "social and democratic state of law"; for that article which speaks of values such as "freedom, justice, equality or political pluralism". Do you know what it is to defend the Constitution and defend it at the risk of being taken away from you? I'll tell you. It is to respect plurality and linguistic wealth as a cultural heritage, article 3, and not as an enemy of the Castilian. It is to defend freedom without discriminating against anyone on grounds of birth, sex, race or religion. Defending the Constitution is not building walls against people who come from other places. It is not to deprive women of equal pay for the mere fact that they are. It is not about actively practicing xenophobia and asking hundreds of migrants to die in the middle of the sea. It is not to deprive women of being able to decide on their own body. It is not to watch the freedom to love whomever you want, regardless of sex. It is not depriving people of the same sex of marriage, let alone imposing their family model at all costs. Defending the Constitution is respect for religious freedom. It is not to deprive believers of the right to worship from other religions. It is to respect the freedom of education; it is not the parental pin. It is to guarantee the right to a decent roof. It is respect for international treaties, and not advocate destroying the European model. It is defending the eighth title, which defines our autonomous regime. It is defending the first additional provision, which you are constantly attacking. It is not defending that great and free, who have inherited from their grandparents. It is not to defend that Spain that Machado defined as the two Spains, in which some, his ideological ancestors, dedicated themselves to curtailing the rights and freedoms of ours, and rather more serious things, which I will not mention. To defend the Constitution is not to ponder and claim as your own retired generals, that all you want is to impose the model that you are defending, shooting 26 million sons of bitches, among which I find myself, meet my comrades, meet these other people, find these parliamentarians or those parliamentarians, everyone who does not think like you. Nor is it conniving to say that one can agree or disagree or qualify this as inadequate, as some spokesman of the People's Party has done. That, simply, is not democracy; that is not freedom; that is an unequivocal desire to annihilate the one who does not think like you. Some parties have been suffering more than half a life, and I can assure you that we have had enough, because the Constitution is not precisely that; it is the basis on which the social and democratic state is built that guarantees our freedom, but above all that it must guarantee coexistence between people and territories. That's what we have to defend. And not only that part that they like and that wrong unity with their desires to move towards something that is very-very-very far away from the democratic spirit, which, in addition to making us equal, allows us to live together. I was asking myself a question; I was wondering whether the Socialist Party is defending the Constitution. And I answer him: I am bluntly yes, always, first because we did it; second, because we believe it, and third, because we defend it from its first point, from its first article, to the last, which you cannot say. Of course, today it has been shown who is who; we do not lack... We don't need to define ourselves, either, because we're already getting to know you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u75	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians mustn't speak. The answer shift, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u76	Well, first of all, I am grateful for Mr Barrio's speech, which I agree with every single word he has uttered here. On the other hand, Mr Andueza, you have made me very funny because I have had a déjà vu. I have seen how here today he perfectly imitated Odón Elorza the other day in Congress, point by point. Thank you for your exercise in caricaturizing Vox. I will pass you the document of the 100 measures of Vox so that you learn to drink from the primary sources, and not from the talking, which is what comes to you. We have to get to the point of what it really is. On the other hand, I must also say that I should give up on stories. This text that I am asking for to be adopted is literal; it is not subject to interpretation of any kind. The remains you're talking about are your interpretations. Interesting, of course, for your parish, but not for us. To defend the Constitution, you know that we know a lot, that our President Abascal knows a lot. And from what we have just said that we have said that we kill 26 million sons of bitches, as you have just said here, it is something very cheap, which you know is not true, that our president has said that he was not in that chat and many other things that we could already talk about when you want to, but I think it is not the time, because what I have come to defend the Constitution. We could talk a lot about Mr. Sanchez's things, which you've done. I can tell you how the pernicious Civil War has revived, with the Historical Memory Act, how it has chosen ERC and Bildu as its preferred partners, how it has made Pablo Iglesias vice-president and given the CNI, to a gentleman who in his program La Tuerka was pleased to want, said in his own words, to bury that trash of the Transition. Now they're good, aren't they? These gentlemen. They have eliminated the possibility for families to educate their children in Spanish in places where there is a co-official language. They are working to eliminate any sign of separation of powers, as by appointing Mrs. Dolores Delgado as Attorney General, that separation was touched. And, of course, with their proposal for the reform of the Judicial Power Council, they end up sinking it. In the same vein, we can talk about your idea of the Ministry of Truth... But, as I said, I am not going to continue to investigate many more issues that we could draw up, because what I have come to support the Constitution, above all by endorsing points 1 and 2, although, of course, we endorse from the first to the last. I didn't come here to giggle either. And the only thing I've come to is for you to position yourself, which is what you just did, and say whether or not you support the Constitution. Point. That's what I wanted (...). Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u77	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans isn't talking. Together Podemos... Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u78	Mrs. Martinez, be careful with the document that's going to happen to me. Let me see if it is going to be confused and, instead of passing the electoral programme, I will pass the fundamental principles of Regime, of the Movement. In any case, look, if there's anything I'm proud of, it's all my colleagues and, especially, those who have been in Euskadi defending peace, freedom, democratic principles and the Constitution, as I said before, at the risk of losing their lives. And I can assure you one thing, in the defense of the Constitution and democracy in this country, Odón Elorza doesn't even get to the sole of the shoes; I can assure you, you can assure him... And like Odon Elorza, none of the socialists and socialists we have endured here since the first day. Look, if there was a party that defended the Constitution in Euskadi, it was us. Look, casually, the only ones that we have defended the Constitution in Euskadi and that we defended it in that referendum were some of those gentlemen and we, curiously the Socialcommunists that you now call. No, no, don't get mad, Mr. Barrio, because I already know the argument you're going to put me on. Look, when that was discussed, when that was discussed in the Congress of Deputies, do you want to know what you did? Three voted no, five abstained and another eight voted in favour. Look, here they defended the abstention, without any type of pads. I think it's something you shouldn't be ashamed of. In any case, they should be, proud of having been the only time they've won an election in Euskadi, which is also not... That's not bad either. In any case, to us lessons, to us lessons...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u79	Mr. Barrio, silence... Mr. Barrio, silence. Mr. Barrio... Third. One more and you're going out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u80	... of the Constitution absolutely, absolutely none. Absolutely, absolutely none. In any case, Mrs. Martinez... Mrs. Martínez, I would recommend that you review the Congressional Sessions Journal of the Deputies, when you deny those retired soldiers who have so much passion for shooting, because their comrade Macarena Olona claimed them as "their people." Well, look who you're meeting, because that will also say a lot about who you are and, specifically, who you are. Look, just one question. I think one of the things that makes us more different from each other...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u81	Mrs Martínnez, silence, please... Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u82	... between you and us is that we have decided to live without grudge for many years, many years. See to what extent in the year 78 we decided to sit with the heirs of those who shot us, to agree on a Constitution that we continue to defend. And we don't care, we don't care, because living without grudge, I can assure you it doesn't make us any better or worse person. But I can assure you that it makes us live a lot quieter. Of course, we, our conscience, have it tremendously calm, regardless of who we agree with, because, when the Socialist Party agrees something, it does not remember it as a bold weapon, it remembers it thinking of all citizens. I hope that, from now on, they will learn to live without resentment, learn to live to build coexistence, to build a future and not to build that longing Spain, in which some would shoot others for thinking differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u83	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. After discussion, we'll vote with the original text of a proposition as well as Misto. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 40; the votes given, 75; the supporters 7; the opponents on the contrary, 68; abstentions, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u84	So it's not like it's accepted. And when we get to this point, we'll go to lunch about three-quarters of an hour... till three-fifteen. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-seven. At seventeen o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u85	Good afternoon, again, all of you. And the sixth point in the subject list: "Provide the proposition as a parlamentary group, to penetrate into the administration of COVID-19, study and transparency. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The Representative of the EH Group has the word. Mrs. Ubera, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u86	Good afternoon, everyone. Well, before I started speaking, I wanted to take the first moments today to thank the Osacidents again, to thank them for all the effort they're doing, to thank them, to thank them, to thank them, for all the effort they're doing, to start with the washing machines, to the maintenance, to the electro-oping, to everyone, to trackers, to everyone who's picking up the data... And even today, I don't want to forget them, and it's a pity that the health department isn't there, but I'll tell his colleagues that even today I want to thank them because I want to thank the members of the Osacers, the officials of the Medical Department, although well, we don't share so many decisions and differences, because I'm conscious of the hours when they're coming in, because I'm still going ahead of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, and that we're still on the way. And if there's any point in the way, we can get together before it's too late, for everyone's own good. The three points we've brought to the discussion today were the points we've put on the table from the descale once and for all. One, transparency, all the data in public, and every day: To improve the data collection, the identification, the study. Why? Because we don't know all the data, because all data isn't made public every day, and because we haven't got a lot of data yet, because we haven't collected them and would be helpful in the planning and designing. The second is to identify the source in which pollutions are and where they are, and where they are, and where they are in the cementes, and for which, next to the trackers' team, they add a search match and, besides, improve the parameters of trackers which are now employed. And thirdly, for the public to practice the sensibilization campaigns. You know the real situation with testigations, though now almost all of us have been touched by the coronabirus near you, sometimes more gently, some with more violence. And even yesterday, at the Board of Health, we received testimony of this, that we had members of the Basque Country of the COVID-19 Consistent, and explained to us, in the utmost detail, how the symptoms could be followed, and how life could have been turned upside down in a very difficult manner. For us, the Basque Country has been the first to investigate, and to place the means for this inquiry, that is to say, for the contagion or the field, in order to know how and how it is. We know this is not possible at a hundred percent. We know that transmission can't be done when it's communal, and that in the state we've been in, it can't be done in the past few days. But when the data's going down, we can start this now. And we know, unfortunately, that today EAE hasn't been made. If we go to the records of the Ministry and give all kinds of autonomy information, then we can clearly see that huddler on the very very very last bulletin of December 2nd doesn't give those facts, and, compared to other communities, we don't know where the infection happens when other people know where it happens. It's true that when we send information to the Ministry, we may lose them on the way, but it's true that we don't know them, we don't know where the pollutions happen. Every week, at the Board of Health, Wednesdays, we put this subject on the table, and the Berasdo told us two weeks ago that they had made a small examination in this sense, and gave several facts: Well, it happened at 14% of the schools, 27% of the social area and 50% of the homes. and in the rest the contagion was much lower in the sociosanitarian and in the workshops. But if we do the numbers differently, we can see what data we're handling and see today how EAE doesn't do, if we take the data from the last seven days, take the bulletin from yesterday, go to the bulletin of yesterday, because it's symptoms, the test is tested at 32.9 because it's a contact, it's done to 461, and we don't know 21.1, we don't know it. So the contact is 46%.1, yeah, back to 50. We can check where those things get infected, find out, and if we did that, we'd take a big step. And that would help us to know where to put the measures and make them more surgical measures. And besides, there would be so many fruitless disputes that they would not be able to avoid. For example, there would be no quarrel; in what fields there are contagions, where they are not, for we should have data, and clear data. What I said before: We know that when transmission is common, it can't be done, but now that numbers are down we expect it to be like this and not start up again, we can plan, we can plan it, we can complete the research team and design the methodology for work. At the same time, as I said before, by adapting tracker parameters, rather than identifying contacts only by trackers. And then, at the same time, trackers would have tremendous help with the research team. And this means would be a key both to LABI and to the Medical Department and to the public and to all of us, and to legitimize public policies and to make decisions. For months, as I have said before, we have made a great effort on this subject, and in a couple of our townships, with EHU, the investigators of EHU, for example Duron. But it's clear that Osapartics has to do this job, because at last Osacides manipulates more data, and the machinery must be very oiled, all right? And for that, we must be a strong research team, suitable profilers, could be EHU investigators, they could be the ememologists of the Medical Department, because they could be other professionals. And that's why we're happy this evening. We are glad to add, on the one hand, a series of researchs, which we have made, by the agreement which we have made, to the side of the trackers, and to the extent in which the infections are and which is the source, and which, on the other hand, we shall continue to improve the limits of our trackers. From this day forward we hope that this agreement should be fulfilled, and not to be carried away by the wind, and we will follow, that it may be fulfilled. And we hope, too, that the decision which has been made, and the decisions which have been made, is not negative consequences, and that we do not find it again in the presence of a communal transmission in January, which, in fact, would be troubling for all of us. And that's why it would be all right to make a plan, to have a plan B, and put all the means in a particular health strategy, because we can't go after the virus all the time, right? Because virus doesn't know the holiday, because virus doesn't know Christmas vacation, summer and Easter. It was a pity we didn't make a deal about the transparency of the data, and it was still clear that we have different views around transparency and that we have different views about the data to make public. We're conscious, e, conscious that a few data can't be made public every day, but if it can't be every day, then it can be done every week. Or, well, we can be conscious that some of us are not of that importance every day to public action, but at the same time it is very clear that the importance of all the data being made public, both for the public and for those who are in the government, and that, in the end, the improvement of these facts in public, and in its transparency, will render them legitimate to the public. And this is a fundamental principle in public politics, which will help in the consciousness of the people, because it will help them to know the reality, even to understand it when the Government decides. And, for instance, if we knew about bars, restaurants... whether there has been infection or not, or how much it has been in the data, which certainly would help all. Or, perhaps, if we were to investigate the workshops, then we should look at the measures. Or maybe in public transportation. Do you understand? It's very important that all this data be made. We've been trying to make public data in order to make the following data public. So let's get to know all the people. One: but I hope that the agreement which we have obtained today will be natural, and that these facts will be made public. The other number is the contact and isolation of the infected. And you know why we asked for this? For the government always gives the same data; the rate it gives is four positive contacts. And if you go to the Ministry report and see the data for the last three weeks, the EAE data is not present, there is no EAE data about that subject. We also asked to know what positivity is when patients invade hospitals, when they make PCR, or when they make a diagnosis. And we asked that we also know about the positive vacation in the country. I don't think we were demanding an exaggeration, and we hope we'll go on working in that direction. Today we took a step; it's not easy to step around this subject together. And we hope today is useful for a short time to take more steps together and to share more resolutions. And to finish, I have to say: I hope this agreement did not take place on the 22nd of this plunciation, that the next day the Medical Department came and the Medical Department concluded with an order. And from us, that's all. I'd like to thank all the teams for their approval, especially Mr. Tellegio. And let's hope to take a very important step with today, to have another strategy to deal with the covid-19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Hernandez, who represents the Podemos-Nozzer of the Antice Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u88	Yeah. Thank you. Well, I'll be brief. Once this agreement has been reached, which we are going to sign, and I am going to explain basically why we are going to sign it, because it is true that in the field of transparency – or, if they do not want to call it "transparency", we can call it otherwise, right? – but of the best transmission of data to public opinion, also to parliamentary groups, that we use that data in the follow-up we do in the appearances we have every week, at the request of the groups that support the Government – we have them every Wednesday – and we work on those appearances with that data that are published. And it is true; Mrs Ubera was right, therefore, that much data is missing, that – without going into the assessment of whether they are more or less useful – their publication, of course, to us, as a parliamentary group, it seems to us that they would be useful. And that it is true that, if we go to other sources on the same issue in other areas, such as those of the ministry, then we find that there are data that are not given here and that, therefore, we do not understand that they are not given. But, we, that this, then, I believe that the initiative has not been dealt with too late, but there is indeed the question why we, of course, sign this transaction, and that it does seem important to us, because we have also been talking about this since the beginning of the legislature. Since the first time she had the opportunity to appear and explain the department's work lines, we have already been insisting with the topic of trackers and with the usefulness of tracking for the topic of virus monitoring, to know, to know, to know, exactly the areas of contagion. And, above all, we demand, what we have been saying, that at the time of summer, when – the time before this second wave and the time we are – it was when it had to be done, and that there were not even enough trackers. And this agreement is indeed a step forward and, therefore, we have signed it. It welcomes the addition of a research team to the tracking team with professionals of the appropriate profile, responsible for analysing and identifying areas and possible sources of infection. Because it seems to us that this is what we were also calling for from different groups to the Government, because we listened, above all, to the professionals, not because we invented it, and we also listened to the professionals insist a lot on this issue and on the importance of this issue. And, therefore, well, we signed the agreement and we are going to vote in favour, because we do not understand it – we have asked and the Deputy Councillor has answered us; in this case, in the appearances he has answered us; Mrs Ubera has made reference to this – because they do not know where the infections occur, because it is very difficult to know at the time when we are in collective transmission. Of course, but, at the same time, we hear messages that tell us which spaces are safe (work areas, transport...) and, at the same time, tell us which areas seem less safe (hotels, etc.). So, we do not understand very well how it combines that it is very difficult, practically impossible, the vice-counselor told us, to know the areas of contagion – which we can recognize that it is difficult and, above all, with the teams that have existed so far – and, at the same time, to be so categorical when it comes to transmitting to people also what are the most and least safe areas. Therefore, we think that this research team can be very useful in this task, and we signed the agreement. And I suppose it will be everyone's job, therefore, to see that this is actually being done and that it has the necessary dimension too – that we don't know what it will be – and to see, analyse, whether that is positive or not, that we think it is. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u89	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, congressmen. Well, we submitted a correction to this proposal between the Popula Party and Ciudadans. And we have to say that we've made a great deal of agreement and that we'll protect him. When we saw this subject and proposition, we soon thought it necessary to discuss the covida also with regard to transparency. And, well, from that line, it's necessary to encourage or to lead the necessary measures of transparency... or to get transparency. On the other hand, it was good, from our point of view, to improve the work of the trackers, because I think there was a sphere for improvement, and that's why we introduced our corrections. As I said, for the People's-Citizens Coalition, when we think about the amendment to present this proposal, we consider it essential to deepen the mechanisms necessary to achieve absolute transparency in relation to the data provided by Osakidetza and the Department of Health, in relation to this pandemic, and in that sense, we consider that there was room for improvement, as we have been shown by the fact that we have known, that yesterday I do have to say that we received explanations from the counselor, that the number of hospitalizations infected by antigen tests had not been calculated, because they had only been calculated for... until two weeks ago, the last two weeks, only the tests of those infected by PCR tests, and, in that sense, 256 revenues were outside of this count. This gap in hospitalization data – the Health Adviser yesterday, in response to several parliamentary groups who asked for explanations on this aspect – told us that it was due to a computer error. Well, obviously, we accept the explanations, but we believe that issues like these should not be reoccurred. Because, obviously, then, in the information that is being given on such a relevant and topical issue and where all citizens... and, above all, therefore, political representatives also follow up on these data, in order to know the evolution of the pandemic; in that sense, we do consider that there was room for improvement. And we also regret that, at the end of the compromise agreement, no reference has been made to the specific point of transparency, which, as I say, I believe, given the latest developments and some other event also in relation to the data provided by Osakidetza and the Department of Health, there was an opportunity to make some improvement in this regard. With regard to tracking, we believe that there is a need to speed up the conduct of PCR testing, strengthen and reorganize tracking teams and improve tracking work, for the early detection of direct contacts. And not only from direct contacts, but it also seems to us to be a very important issue to be able to reach the sources of infection of the infected person. That is, we need to have enough information not only to get to the contacts of the person who has been infected, but to know where that person has been able to become infected, because we will also be able to know more precisely where we have those outbreaks of infection and establish greater control and prevention measures for the non-transmission of this virus. And, on the other hand, we also thought it appropriate to introduce a reference to what is, well, the specific question of strengthening laboratory equipment and infrastructure. Well, well, we also knew that there were problems here in relation to that there might be a bottleneck in relation also to... with... then, once the PCR tests arrive, with carrying out the tasks corresponding to a laboratory on this issue. Well, therefore, satisfaction. It is regrettable that no explicit reference has been made to the issue of transparency. However, we believe that the issues that have been dealt with in relation to tracing work are positive; it involves progress in this area, and we consider it necessary in relation to the amendment that we are submitting. And in that sense, we will support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u91	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, I would like to highlight one issue on which I believe we can all agree: the covid-19 has demonstrated the need to move forward in the various areas of coordination, in order to deal with this and future pandemics that we can suffer in the future. And, in addition to specific cases, I would like to stress that this coordination, which began to take place since March, continues to develop, beyond controversies that, with more or less media repercussions, may have occurred. And if you hurry, I will tell you that I believe that we are all aware that this level of coordination between the different administrations with health competences grows exponentially at the levels with less public and media exposure, something that, without a doubt, should make us all reflect. It is clear that rapid developments at the national and international levels have required immediate and effective measures to address the emergency public health situation caused by covid-19. The declaration of the state of alarm allowed the adoption of measures, which have gradually achieved the objective of reducing the transmission of the disease and reducing, to the maximum, the risk of collapse in intensive hospital care units, which is why the transition towards a new normality has begun. All measures taken, including in the process of de-escalation, have been in view of the evolution of health, epidemiological, social, economic and mobility indicators, with maximum guarantees of health security. And on more than one occasion, we have already said this, in this, as in any other area, there are always spaces for improvement. But it would not be fair to overlook that the Department of Health of the Basque Government has been publishing daily reports on the evolution of the COVID-19 coronavirus. And I believe that that in itself is already an important exercise of transparency in information, which I believe explains the will with which we have been working from the beginning. Information transparency that is also materialized throughout a multitude of press conferences, as well as multiple materials edited and available to all citizens, through a simple click on the Osakidetza website. I am talking about protocols, information materials, recommendations and communication campaigns. And with this, we cannot forget all the documentation sent by the department at the request of each of the parliamentary groups, as well as the weekly appearances, which, at the request of the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, makes the Counsellor Gotzone Sagardui before the Health Commission, to report on the situation of the coronavirus in Euskadi. I therefore believe that there is no doubt about this desire for information transparency, which has been given on a continuous basis. And that seems very important to me to clear it from the entrance. I say again: is there room for improvement? Yes, as there is room for improvement in any area. But, with the precedents we have, I have no doubt that there is a process of continuous improvement, precisely to provide all relevant information to the citizenry. Having cleared this point, I am focusing on what I believe is the most substantial part of this initiative and which, moreover, I believe, brings us all closer, as those who have preceded me have pointed out. One, the agreement on the need to continue the study of the evolution of the contagions, refining the parameters as much as possible. And, two, the agreement on the need to continue to develop social awareness campaigns. The transactional that we have reached with the proposing group, EH Bildu, and with Elkarrekin Podemos, whom I thank for their attitude of seeking an agreement, incorporates the commitment to continue studying the evolution of the contagions by the screening teams and the technical staff of health and Osakidetza, in order to advise the most appropriate measures for their containment, as well as the commitment, in order to deepen the exploitation of the data, to add to the tracking team a research team with the professionals of adequate profile, in order to analyze and identify the areas and possible sources of contagion, and, in this sense, to further improve the parameters of the tracers. Finally, to maintain awareness-raising work for the population through new campaigns, which disseminate the importance and correct compliance with individual and collective measures of prevention against the virus and, where appropriate, by disseminating real situations and testimonies. I believe that this type of agreement sends a clear message to Basque society that our priority, with respect to the covid, is nothing other than the health of our citizens, that we can have differences and that we will continue to have them, but that the aim is to address the measures that best ensure the health of Basque citizens. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u93	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u94	Good afternoon, everyone. Two previous cases: first, a finding. This is the first time in this legislature that I see we are having a calm debate on the covid-19. That's okay, but at this time, maybe, it's too serene. I mean for the dream of your lordships. Secondly, a message: Sailburu Sagardui has asked me to apologize; she has been here all morning and, when the matter is delayed, she has had to leave. I will convey to you, however, the thanks, Mrs Ubera. Today, we talk about covid-19. And this is not very original, though we must admit the view of the other just proposition, though it is not quite different from that of some previous arrangement, yet it does it from the side view, which is derived from some kind of equality, though partially repeated: We've been talking about PCR, first class, unions, strikes, what the citizens think, or what the legal team believes. It looked like we'd examined everything, but we can see that we didn't. It can be seen that the problem caused by the covid-19 has many edges. What I didn't imagine was that the only health aspect occupied an uninhabitable hyperspace for an intellect as simple as mine. Because today there are, not one, three more aspects: one, information, research, awareness. Three edges more than a polyhedron of infinite faces, which is probably just one, that appears a virus, infects everywhere, fills primary care and hospitals, and what is worse, causes a significant number of deaths. And all the debates that we have had, that we have and that we will have revolve around this incontrovertible truth. A virus arrived and caught us all, everyone, not knowing how it works, how it infects, how it multiplies, and how it makes us sick or how it doesn't make us sick. Despite this global lack of knowledge, urgent management decisions had to be taken in all the health systems of the world, which, above all, in their early days, were tumbling in their conclusions, for the sole reason of not knowing everything about the virus. And I'm not saying it as a previous apology to try to justify something. I say what everyone knows, exclusively to contextualize the problem. And the public health of euphora, after answering the first blow, was to explain what was being done to the people, for fear of not being always explained, but because they did not know it, because no one knew it, because he was studying it as he went along, and partly because the previous information was nullified, partly because they were wrong. They were trying to solve a problem they were investigating at the same time. Nevertheless, they reported and issued a newsletter, which, over time, was modified, expanded and corrected to reach the current format, which, from almost the beginning, was published daily. And, daily, the most relevant data that will allow us to know the pandemic's progress in terms of infected, hospitalized or indexes that we almost don't understand, even people to people. In other words, publishing daily the data used for the analysis of the pandemic is being done. That's transparency. And it's not a problem of transparency. It is a problem of the volume of data that we want to publish. Everything is done and will be done with the dual objective of informing and sensitizing. To offer some data that has come to be requested, or does not provide anything, or requires an effort that does not compensate for the information they offer. In addition, in addition to the regular publication of data, health officials also go out on press briefings and statements everywhere, not only to inform the evolution of the pandemic, but also to raise awareness of the behaviours expected from it that would prevent contagion. And that, even if it doesn't seem so, are also awareness campaigns that were requested in the GNP, actions to which should be added the classic recruitment campaigns of the department, which have been at least 7 since February, of recommendations, to protect themselves, of thanks to professionals, of distances... 7 campaigns, and now the current generic hands-mask-distance, which, precisely, I don't know whether by adaptive convergence to reality or why, exactly meets the ideas that the original proposition conveyed. I don't think there's any Basque person left who doesn't know how to mask all the time, that social contacts should be avoided or that their hands should often be washed. However, we have a second wave, and it seems as if the blame can't be attributed to information that comes from fun and sensationalization. Anyway, when we citizens know what's going on, where it can happen and how it's possible and how it happens, everything depends on our attitude, our responsibility and solidarity. And the Department of Health with the problems of ignorance-knowledge shared with everyone, in addition to informing the public about what it knew and publishing it daily and carrying out awareness campaigns on how to behave, was also put to work in a classic operation in epidemiology: the search for outbreaks of infection by the tracking method. And it is that, I insist, despite the emergencies for everything, a tracking network was set up, almost from the beginning, to try to detect outbreaks of infection and count them. That network has been expanding over time, and now 700 people are already working on it. Now, one thing is to have the network, locate contacts and submit to analysis and quarantine, and another is to fix the concrete space of the contagion. The fundamental thing from the beginning and throughout this pandemic has been, and is to withdraw from the street and isolate the infected. From there, everything that has been possible has been deepened in the tracking, although, by the way, knowing where exactly it has occurred, indeed, does not necessarily contribute everything that some believe. And even though it's made... to know where, it's made, it seems simple, it's actually enormously complex. Let's put a case that's supposed to be easy. If a bar worker has been positive, which we've had enough cases, all the customers of the last few days of that bar are called to see if they've been infected. It's been done several times. And, probably, some positive dens, of those who have gone, and will be pointed at the bar as a place of contagion. It's the easy thing, it's what they do, an accounting pointer. But we won't know exactly if it was in that bar or because he made a snack the next day with a brother-in-law. We won't know. If we find a positive and try to locate the source of his infection, it's easy if he's only been in one place in the last five days. What with the social life scheme we have in this country is very difficult. Except for you, Mr Hernandez, who has already confessed to me that he is quite misanthropous. But the rest of the citizenry, in general, has a lot of social life, and it is normal that he has been in five bars, in one restaurant, in two meetings, one with his family and the other with his partner's family. There have been some cases – I have talked to some tracker – where the positive had had 80 recent contacts, 80. How far can one deepen to know the exact source of the contagion? That's right, if in a village, in a neighborhood, in a housing block, there's a high number of contagions, you do a screening and you get the infected out of the street. Which is the most important, the fundamental, because there are few more possibilities. However, despite the fact that they do not, logically, abandon their fundamental work, the tracking teams have collected all the data that can allow, with a deep exploitation of the results, to try to find places, spaces or people that have been the main and constant sources of infection, in order to be able to then do a preventive work. These data need to be analyzed with some calmness, which is when the epidemic is transmitted in an arithmetical way, so when it begins to do so in a geometrical way, as it has done twice, the issue becomes complex, if not impossible. Look, it has often been used as an example of the management of the pandemic in Germany, until 30 or 40 days ago they were shot at by the contagions. And President Merkel herself stated that, when the transmission was Community, 85 % of the cases are unknown where it occurred, 85 %! Well, now with the data collected, with the system functioning and without the stress of the growth of contagion, the Government is going to hire experts who can exploit those stored results and be able to find out about the sources of contagion and their expansion. The new techniques, for example, of big data can lead to conclusions that have so far not been possible. In conclusion, a problem suddenly arose that affected us all, a problem of unknown origin, with unknown propagation mechanisms, unknown medical treatment and also unknown effects on the human body. And although there are still many unknowns, something out of all of us has come to know. But while it was being found out, it was necessary to prevent contagion and treat infected people, and that was done by the Department of Health from the beginning. And even though he did not know what might be happening or what could happen, sometimes necessarily improvising, he did a first-rate job with first-rate professionals. And practically from the very first moment he showed the data about what was happening. He worked to raise public awareness of the problem and how to behave, and created a tracking network, to fight a pandemic that behaved completely unknown. All this, which is what Bildu asked for in his GNP, we have tried to agree in an honest way. And we have reached an agreement, which I congratulate, and I thank Mrs Ubera, who also know that she has made an effort. And I hope this is the beginning, if not of a long friendship – which, well, for that it can take us longer – yes of a certain consensus on an issue where citizens expect that: consensus and agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u95	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. A group that hasn't run any corrections won't participate. Then we'll go round the answers. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u96	And I agree with you, that decisions in this matter ought to be shared, and that we ought to work with all of us. But we've been trying this since the beginning of the EH Collecton Pandemae, to make our decisions shared, to work together, because we think that there would be a different answer between the people, but we didn't do it, and it wasn't because of our will. Let's see if this deal is going to go back to the situation today. You mentioned that Merker himself didn't know that it's impossible in the U.N.85 transmission. And I said: When transmission is communal, these investigations can't be developed. We can't be in that situation. That's why I hope you don't take the decisions made by the LAPD yesterday to a communal transmission again and be able to get these means started. For the more data we have, the more means we'll have, the more we'll have, the more objective data we'll have, because we'll have more knowledge of the virus and it'll help us turn the situation around. And because we need everything and more. And that's what we're asking for. This is where the investigation, planning, resources are needed... Resources, joints. I remember how many months we spent asking for luggage. And finally it was done. Now it's the same with the research teams. It will finally be done. It is better to do this even if it is late, but it would be better if we made our decision before, won't it? Finally, research, planning, resources, bahets, trackers, research teams... We need everything. That which will be based on a health strategy, which would help us to make decisions better based on the data. And that would make the government easier for them to do their own work, and give their decisions legitimately, don't you think? We need these tools. All of the situation we have in the data to describe. And that's why we want to ask for discretion. We want to ask the government for wisdom. As the Government requested the people to-night, we too wish to ask for wisdom, because we are not in the state of May and June, that is, we are not in the state we began our defeat; we are not in. In the 17th condition of October, as Mrs. I mean, and now, at the 17th of October, we're beginning to work on the facts, with the same facts, we're beginning to lighten the measures. And we must not forget that, and it is to be considered. On the 17th of October, we had the 1st century, and in the incests we had 55 people. On December 9th, we have 327 independence and we have 125 people in intelligence. And the workers are tired, they can't take it anymore. And we can't punish the Osapics anymore because they're overflowing. But we mustn't forget one thing. All this does not only affect the covida, but all this affects everything that is not covid-19; To follow the chronics, to enter for consultations, to diagnose imaginary diseases later, or to be too late in Diagnostics. And all that has an effect. So we can't forget that. And therefore we need a strong, permanent strategy, founded on the prescriptions of health, and health. We can't act like a iobibo, up and down, because at last it bothers the people. You've seen it, you've seen it... with the latter measures the level of contagion has descended, but the data is not yet good. Remember that the government itself designed to reach the rate of 600,000 inhabitants, and we are still at the rate of 327. So, you see, it's not enough for two weeks. You need a longer look, and you need a stronger strategy, with resources and a permanent measure. For the two weeks that they could bring in this shift because we saw that in September, the third week, we were worse. And to make it worse for the workers, citizens, hosts, and all of them. And let us not normalize deaths because there are people who have the full names behind each number of deaths and are the worst of all that can happen to normalize deaths.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together Podemos-Bezzerzia. Right away, Mr. Hernandez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u98	Yes, simply that, at times of community transmission it would be difficult to do or detect the areas of transmission of infection to the virus was, precisely, what we were hearing experts and scientists tell us in summer, or rather, tell the government, in this case to the Basque Government, but also other governments, in summer, what they were telling them to have the right equipment at times when there was no community transmission. And that, in the case of Euskadi, the Basque Government had a very limited tracking team, mainly with professionals from Osakidetza. That, Mr Telleria, is what we have also been saying over the past few months, because we listen to scientists and professionals in this regard, not because we know this. Because you are right many times when you say that we, and we, parliamentarians, in fact, are not the ones who know the most about this, but we listen. And because, indeed, you also once said to expand my contacts or those with which I consult. Well, of course, you will be aware that for this debate today, for this issue of trackers, we have not spoken to the unions. This is something that professionals and scientists have been putting forward for some time. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u99	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Popular Group-Ciudados. We don't need to talk about it. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u100	If you'll excuse me, from the seat. I think there are some issues that we need to fine-tune when we talk about the coronavirus, because it is true, as Mr Telleria says, that when decisions have been taken, decisions were initially taken on a scenario that we did not know about. And yesterday, the group of people affected by the long COVID appeared before the Health Commission and taught us another part of the covid that many people do not know, which is those people who have been cured in covid theory but who have sequelae that do not disappear. And this is a disease we're learning to know. At the moment, I believe that health administrations are being poured into all countries as soon as possible, which is to avoid the covid's contagions. But, of course, this is going to bring us a lot of work yet, for a very long time. And many of the decisions that have been made – I think we have to say it openly – have been based on correct-error; because, at first, we didn't know what it was that we were facing. I also want to say that when it comes to changing performances, we also do not have to make the mistake of believing that we only have to go in one direction. This disease has taught us that we are experiencing different effects and that, in view of the different stages in which we are being materialized, different measures must be taken. I would also like to recall that, in this very Parliament and in this very plenary session, we have only recently been given examples of other countries, countries which are worse than us today, with measures very similar to those that have been adopted here. Therefore, I believe that the covid-19 is a very complex reality, to which we are going to have to learn to face still, in that part of the immediate avoidance of contagion and in that part of what effects this disease can finally transfer to the citizenry. I believe that social awareness is very important for this, and that is why I want to keep this part of the compromise amendment, of this agreement that we have achieved. Because, in addition to being in the hands of governments – which, in fact, at first hand, we have to make the decisions to carry out these campaigns – citizens also have in their hands to protect themselves from these contagions. I believe that the agreement that we have reached today – I would not dare to call it a minimum agreement; I believe it is something more than a minimum agreement – does launch that positive message, with which I want to close my intervention, and it is because of the many differences that we have, and also on this issue, we all have a priority, which is to safeguard the health of Basque citizens. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u101	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u102	Thank you. And go ahead, again, my thanks to all the groups, and especially to Bildu, for the agreement we have been able to reach. Another thing is – and let me – that it is very easy to suggest to the Administration that it is managing a conflict such as this thing that it must do, when it has at once, at once, a management problem, and that is not solved just by catching more people; it is necessary to sort out the whole system and design something about..., and I have insisted on the previous intervention, on what we have absolute ignorance from the beginning and we are learning little by little, by exchanging information with other sectors. So, now it's when you see, at every moment you see, the possibility of moving forward... Look, publishing every day is being done, raising awareness with campaigns as well, and tracking as well. Another thing is that the tracking results have not been fully exploited. Of course, because at first what mattered there was tracking: tracking, interviewing... There has been a day when there have been 1,536 positive cases. 1.536 were interviewed and 1,536 data are available. Another thing is who gets to process that when we have other priorities; we have to prioritize the problem we have. And that's what I think has been done. From now on, an investigation will be done – call it what you want, research –; really, it's more of a very deep, mathematical, computer work, to exploit all that data and see what they can bring us, and see if we get to something. No, you don't get there – I insist –... we are not late for this; we arrive at the moment when we have some data that will allow us, with a certain calmness – we hope that the third wave will arrive or not arrive very late –... Let us do it. In any case, without a very thorough analysis and only with a certain common sense of an eccentric like me, it can be concluded that there are contagions where there is social contact, and not where there are elements of control, such as in schools and work. Basically, it is. That is, there are fewer contagions when there are controlled rules and more contagions when we operate under our own individual and social responsibility. That is the reality, and in principle no more numbers would be needed. That is the reality, and decisions are made about those realities. From there, if we can put it into numbers, derivatives, algorithms, we're gonna try to do it, see what comes out of it. Because, in the background, why do we want to know – how did it come to be suggested in this long negotiation of this bridge – the rate of positivity of the people who are made PCR to enter or perform diagnostic tests? You said it before: what do we want for? If the positive will not enter or be tested, they will send him home for ten days and return. It will become part of the overall positives. Are we interested in knowing that he wanted to enter into an operation in Txagorritxu? I don't know. Why do we want to know the number of isolates? I don't know. It can multiply more or less by four or five each of the cases and it would come out, more or less, but what does that bring? Except, surely, a work that is improbable and that the catalogue of what they send us every day at 12:30 is immense and inedible. I mean, we... the Department of Health has the data. By the way, it has also been mentioned that in the Ministry... there is a computer problem there, really. The database on where they believe it has occurred, that has Health, but it has a WHO database, which was given to them by WHO, the data system, which is unable to be turned over to the Ministry's RENAVE Health Network. In principle, there's a person... point; what I told you before: they are accounting notes of "I think it was in the bar; I think it was in his house", without having a contrast. That's why these data come out on the website of the Carlos III Institute a little bit like this. I could tell you a lot more. In any case, the agreement of the parliamentary groups, without being indispensable, is very important, because they know that it helps a lot to create a social climate conducive to assuming that it is a problem for all, that some work to try to alleviate until it is solved, but it is solved when the problem is addressed in a joint way. Today we have taken one step, and I believe that more needs to be done, and I am in it, because, moreover, I have that kind and kind character, which will facilitate these things. And I'm willing, but I don't want to get excited either, because I'm also prone to depression, and therefore I don't want to... Time will say, but today, in any case – I insist – I welcome the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u103	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. End of discussion, we'll vote EH Collect together, Podemos-Nozzerzka, Eukal Socialists and Eubertarians signed semi-correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 40; the votes given, 75; the supporters are 74; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.1,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u104	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. The seventh point on the theme list: "As a parlamentary team of Italians made by Ciudadans, the VAT type of the hydrus and hydrocalalous rooms to descend to 4%. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs Garrido, who is the representative of the Basque Popularo-Ciudadans, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u105	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Again, the coalition between Popular Party and Ciudadans brings an interesting subject, and a subject of actual existence, a subject about descending the VAT of the mascarilla. And, well, we proposed this proposal on behalf of the legislature on the 6th of November, and it is true that the Government has made decisions in the Spanish Government, but the decisions we have made about this matter have not been sufficient, and that is why we decided to keep this proposal. It is true that, having seen the decision of the Spanish Government, the Popular party, even in Congress, had decided to present a new proposal, in order to disappear at last the Vulcan of the Mascarilla. We have an interesting debate today; I think it is topical, and above all interesting, for the pocket of many citizens and, in this case, of many Basque citizens. It is true that this government, the government of the Socialist Party and Podemos, finally agreed to reduce VAT from 21 % to 4 % of surgical masks, but only of these masks, and not of the rest. We have therefore considered this measure insufficient, which must be said that it has come absolutely to the blight of events and after the pressure exerted, after an initial decision not to lower the price of masks from 21 % to 4 %. We understand that it has not been the answer that we all expected on a subject that, as I said, is very sensitive and that affects the citizens' pocket, of all of us, very directly; we are talking about families carrying the spending on masks from 75 to 100 euros every month. We are, therefore, on an issue where the inaction of this Socialist-Possible Party government has been demonstrated and the mismanagement of this matter is also evident. Undoubtedly, in the fight against the pandemic, the masks, the gloves, the hydroalcoholic gels, have become a fundamental tool, we would say that essential, and also by being mandatory, as was decreed at the time, they have become items of absolute necessity. It must be said that this government refused to lower VAT from 21 to 4 per cent, under the pilgrim excuse that a reduction, and textual reading, of VAT would cause 1,568 million euros less collection per year, i.e. that this would mean 1,568 million euros less collection per year. Then the government took another excuse from the sleeve, the Socialist-Possible Party government, and refused to lower VAT from 21 % to 4 %, claiming that it had no permission from the European institutions. This statement was clearly rejected by a report, already from the European Union, of 5 May, on the application of VAT to products needed to combat the pandemic, which stated expressly in this report that no country would be penalised for this reason. It should also be added that Brussels, moreover, has not opened an infringement procedure for those countries which have already reduced VAT. There are other countries that have already taken the lead, such as Portugal, which dropped VAT in April, and France, which did so in May, not to mention the many countries in our environment, where VAT is exempt from masks. As I said before, in the face of pressure, the complaints, raised and the stir generated, the Government announces the reduction of VAT from 21 to 4 per cent on 12 November and materializes in a royal decree law on 17 November, the Royal Decree Law 34/2020, of urgent measures in support of business solvency and the energy sector, and in tax matters. But only VAT has been lowered for disposable surgical masks, and then, in the end, a price has been set for these 0,62 cents. To the rest of the masks, the hygienic ones, the ones of various uses, the ones of high protection, like the FPP2, has not been reduced the VAT, and we have to say that the latter, the masks of maximum protection, are the most recommended to be effective protection against the virus, especially directed to those citizens sick, those citizens who have chronic pathologies and to the most vulnerable groups. It is therefore not understood that this government, the government of the Socialist Party and Podemos, retains the VAT of 21% to masks that are the most recommended and that are the most necessary for the protection, precisely, of the most vulnerable groups. Therefore, in the face of the inaction of this Government, as I said, in this matter, we thought it appropriate to maintain this initiative. So I have to say that the People's Party in Congress is already asking not only for the reduction of the rest of the masks, whose price has not been lowered, but we are directly asking for exemption, in line with other countries in our environment. But this initiative was presented on 6 November; obviously, these decisions have come after and, as it was already on the table, we decided to keep it. We believe that it is time to address a citizen's need with rigour, as it deserves, and not to put excuses systematically on the table, which show a lack of clear political will at this time, not to mention the numerous errors, mandates and deceptions to which the Socialist Party and Podemos government have systematically accustomed us in Madrid. We have therefore presented this initiative. We are presenting it at the moment, and we are keeping it with the aim of reducing VAT on those products which have not yet been reduced. And, briefly, I am going to comment on the rest of the amendments. No, I don't know; I didn't push a transaction, because, on the one hand, I understand that the purpose of our initiative was very concrete, and he was going to urge the central government. And the amendment to the whole tabled, on the one hand, by Podemos, urges the municipalities, which may be very good, but I do not think it was the subject of the initiative initially presented by this group. And, on the other hand, I also want to say that the full amendment tabled by the Bildu Group directly urged the Department of Health. And we believe that, at the moment, then, it was better to urge those who have direct tools to lower a tax, which, as we see, continues, in its present terms, as set out in some masks, being clearly detrimental to the citizens' pocket. And, finally, well, the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party; I want to say that here, Mr Tellería, I therefore regret that the efforts were going to be quite useless, because it is rather continuous and it is in favour of the decision of the Spanish Government. Well, we already know that you support the Government of Spain and, in fact, that is why the Government of Spain, the Government of the Socialist Party and We can, but I understand that, in matters that are also beneficial to the Basque citizens, I believe that you too could have a special sensitivity, as is the matter that the People's-Citizens coalition has brought to this Parliament in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u106	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr MartínnezIón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u107	Yes, good evening, thank you, ma'am. And well, well, it's been said that the subject we're discussing has a solution, but, well, the team voter has kept the original initiative. And that's why it's meant to be our position and our position. As has been said, this enterprise was registered on November 6th, and in November the Spanish Government accepted the downfall of the VAT. I think, when we speak about the coronavirus, we always say that it was a surprise for all of us, and that it revealed to us the weaknesses we have as society, and also our strengths. And among the weak, I think it was very remarkable that the want of which we had been in the industrial scale and the previsium level should have been, for instance, mascarillas, EPIa, or such resources. I believe that, from the very first moment the pandemic began and the need for masking and also for hydroalcoholic gels was seen, different administrations began to work on solving a problem that came from behind, the de-industrialisation that we have and the lack of health care, for example, with the decisions that were made by the Government of Spain – governed at the time by the People's Party – to also disprove protection material against such disasters, health catastrophes, and the disappearance, for example, of national security plans, by the People's Party, also by the Rajoy Government, of such storages. I believe that there has been an enormous effort on the part of society as a whole, by some companies, and also by works councils, trade unions, which changed production in a few weeks, to be able to produce masks and other protective elements. And I think that speaks a lot about the difficulties we had previously and also about rapid adaptation, but it took weeks, even months. And I believe that the Government of Spain, and also the Basque Government in that sense, with the production of masks, with the collaboration with companies such as the Grupo Mondragon, has increased the production of masks and, at the moment, about 30 companies in the Spanish State are the ones that produce these masks, which are the ones we are wearing right now. But also, in addition to the production of masks – and as I will say later – it was equally important to establish price control as well, to ensure the distribution and sale of masks and to avoid depletion. Moreover, as you know, from the various administrations but, in particular, as you appeal to the Government of Spain, governed by the Socialist Party and by the United We can, there is also a fund of 16 billion euros, which is distributed to the autonomous communities, and one of the items intended – within that 16 billion euros – was a health party. And, among the destinations of that health leave, was the free distribution of masks to the population, in general, and, in particular, to the vulnerable population, which I believe is what we should all be concerned about. In addition to all this, a thorough study and monitoring of the domestic and international markets for the sale and purchase of health and safety products has been carried out since the first weeks. For example, also, with a monitoring agreement with the National Commission on Markets and Competition, to avoid abuses also in prices, as occurred in the first weeks and the first months, and what we also know is that with the collaboration of the autonomies and many of the autonomies governed by the People's Party. As I said at the beginning, there was also a reorientation of industry in the State, and also in Euskadi, to produce masks and other protective and hygienic elements. And definitely, and finally, and when it was possible – and I think it is sufficiently explained – the maximum amount of the sale of masks was fixed, the first maximum amount of 0.96 euros, which was also very criticized; some said that it was late, and arrived when it was possible to guarantee the distribution of masks. And others, such as large pharmaceutical companies, also warned that it could produce shortages. I remember the Teleberri of that day that it was a veritable madness of different statements, saying that we were going to run out of masks the next day, and there was no shortage of supplies. You also referred to the different types of masks. If you don't know her, I can get her to you. There is a mask guide from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, which explains very well the type of mask we all need, and the different masks there are. And the mask we wear, which is the most common one, is the one to which VAT has been lowered. On 6 November you submitted a non-law proposal, but on 11 November the Government of Spain announced the reduction of VAT from 21% to 4% and entered into force on 17 November, together with the maintenance of price fixing. And why couldn't it be done before? Well, for a number of reasons. Generally, when we talk about VAT – and, of course, from progressive training, we will always be in favour of the reduction of VAT, which is a tax that is one of the most unfair we have – we find, for example, that when – by setting the example that, I think, everyone can understand – gasoline goes up in the markets, gasoline goes up in the gas stations; when petrol goes down in the markets, it does not go down in the same direction in the gas stations. The same goes for VAT. The Spanish Government, when it took the measure, had to do so at a time when the production of masks was guaranteed and when price control was guaranteed, because, otherwise, what would have been the fall in VAT would have been an increase in the profits of companies producing masks, and that is by no means tolerable in a situation like the one we have at the moment before the pandemic. And also because the costs of production for those 30 companies that we have in the Spanish state producing masks are not the same and, therefore, there is also a top price, so that it is an absolutely profitable production and that it does not harm the companies that have assumed that production. But beyond the fall in VAT, as you know, a new maximum price of 0.72 was set on 12 November, which also fell to 0.62 % on 19 November, approved by the Interministerial Price Commission. I believe that these are steps that have been taken, that are important, but that, moreover, in the surgical masks above all – because it is true that in the hygienic masks the multiplicity of models and points of sale, because equally, does not facilitate their control – the price of the vast majority of the masks at the moment is far away, below that 0.62. But we and we, in addition to these measures, which, as his initiative spoke of the Government of Spain, the PSOE and the United Nations Podemos, believe that this initiative should also be used to talk about things that we can also do in Euskadi. In addition to, of course, supporting and welcoming the fall in VAT, we also urge the Government of Spain to study the fall in VAT on hydroalcoholic gels, because they are essential items at the moment, and maximum price caps have already been set, but we believe that VAT could also be reduced to 4%. By the way, and 21% of the VAT on these products is because Mr Mario Rajoy decided in 2012. I mean, there was no other political force present in this House. And then, also in our compromise proposal that we have signed with Euskal Herria Bildu, well, it seems to us also an interesting proposal to ask the Department of Health, here in Euskadi, to study the possibility of, through the E-reset, establishing gratuitousness for rents of less than 18,000 euros, besides, well, then, continue working and increasing the dispensing points of hydroalcoholic gels, which we have seen that have been placed in different means of transport and in different places in Euskadi, but that we think can, as always, improve on this issue. I believe that all the work that has been done by the various institutions is sufficiently explained. I think VAT has fallen when it was responsible to lower that VAT position and when it was guaranteeing the supply and production of masks. It's explained enough. And I think, well, then, the initiative I think died, by doing so graphically, at the time when the Spanish Government itself lowered VAT; but, well, we will keep our transaction. And, as has already been done, we cannot support the initiative of the People's-Citizens' Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u108	Thank you, Mr. Coon. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word. (He talks off his phone.)... that they would become the most indispensable objects, who would say?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u109	Do you remember when the newsmen asked Murga of the health department for the mask? It was on the way back to April. They asked him for the use of the mask, and when he said Sánchez would use the mask because he would have a covid-19. Do you remember? How many things have changed since then, haven't they? The mask's story represents the story we're having with the SARS virus very well. An uncertain story, uncertain and contradictory. But the question of the mask begins before Murga-Sanchez metaphor. The Inflection Committee, February 20th, receives recommendation of the use of the mask, but it stayed there. In the April meeting, at the April Council, they again treat the use of the mask. In March, I know the lack of the chimpanzee you remember in Osare. All over the world, where to look for masks, where to buy them... it was a violent struggle, openly exposed to the fact that globalization carried every state and country to a level, and, looking at the health industry, revealed all the privations and shames we had. In a meeting, Tapia herself, Mrs. Tapia, as she told us, we have an industry that is strong in design, but we have almost the whole production network outside, and we should turn this thing around. It was also remembered that in the service of the Hosa, according to the category, some of the workers refused to use the mask. And there were promotions and there are still. Now, according to the category, we have a degree of maskation. What's to say about all the things that have happened with the bugs of the mast, right? How many problems we've had with the masks. Looking at the people, which at first was a recommendation, it became a July necessity, and it was to walk along the corner of the beach. I mean, we went from one end to the other. I remember, too, in a press conference in the pandemae, in a press conference in Tapia-Murga, inquiring about the behavior of the mast, the mask to be made at home, which we were told. At first, when they hadn't thought of it, that is, we didn't have any masks at first, and they didn't have any idea of telling them how to make a house for the people. But then, when our industry began to create masks and to ask for their freeness, we were recommended to the people for the masks to be made at home. The point is that the mask has become an indispensable object. We have the mask the best guarantee and most secret of our health. And yet it will be part of our body for a while. The mask has come to stay with us. And even after we've finished pandemy, we'll have a disease there, and we'll have to use our mask in several situations. And besides, we would do well to acquire the culture and custom of the people of the East, and to begin to use a mask, for example, when we have a cold or something else, or when we are sick, to put a mask to protect us from the solidarity of the rest of the people and from the rest of the people. Ever since the beginning, EH Collect took advantage of the use of the mask, at least of the benefits which the use of the mask might produce. It's another question, and that's the way it is, we had doubts during the age of minors, right? for the years after which the mask should be necessary, seeing that OMS gave his criteria about this subject. But we have a very clear mask, especially that the weakest of our society ought to be facilitated, and that we have need of health, and that it should be voluntary. So, in his time, I remember when the descaled or a little earlier, we asked the government for a meeting, so we asked him to think about it for over 65 years and for vulnerable collectives to be a mask and collect it in pharmaceuticals. And seeing all the evolution that has been since that time, the price of the mast is i.e. the fact that now, with the fall of the VAT, the price of the bladder has been lowered when compared with what we saw or examined, it might be interesting through Erezeta, i.e. in chemists, to give us a chance to get it. Besides, there, through the E-rezeta, the differences are very well defined. It's done with the health card, and with the health card it's already given to each citizen the medication at a price, at another price, or at a free price. So the Administration wouldn't suppose a job. And that's why we proposed to those who didn't have a free income, that is to say, for the sake of the non-thankers, 011 TIS, the pensionists have for the pensioners at 012 TISA, people who have incomes below 18000, considering that we already have the whole system mounted. That's why we made this proposal, if you go to the Medical Department's documentation, you've already received it in an agreement in June 2013. I don't know if the order you remember was in 2012, so there was an agreement in 2013, and we've got a whole system lined up, okay? It seems to us that it would be a very comfortable system for the local population, and so at least the vulnerable collectives would be at least a mask, a kurgical, guaranteed. And, of course, we can see that we can ask Congress from here or ask the government of Madrid, but we think we can do things here too, and that's why we made that suggestion because we don't know what Madrid's going to do, but we can do things here, and we don't have the means and the tools. That's why we made this proposal. And we thought, besides asking Madrid for steps, we too, and that's how we've been asked to do it from the beginning, isn't it? And, finally, I want to remember, too, about the mask, [[He gestured with the mask]] A little bit of history, the whole course, because I've tried to do it, because of the material of the mask, so many of the people have more restrictions and obstacles for communication, right? That those who have hearing affairs, or deaf, ought to take steps in order to investigate other materials and to explore homologize them. And often we don't think of these things, but they're here together with a lot of other things. And, from our part of it, we must say that together we have made a middle course with Podemos, and that it has been a pity that we should not agree on this subject. The other day, our young Columna Nort's Board of Health asked for the freeness of the mask, and I think that the mask, too, has come to see us in this matter, that we ought to make a study, how we can make this vital provision of health to be grafted in the recipe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u111	Thank you, President. Well, then, the Basque Socialists thought this was already an outdated debate, as Mr Martínez Zatón said, when on 17 November the Council of Ministers adopted Royal Decree Law 34, on urgent measures to support business solvency and the energy sector, and also on tax matters. This Royal Decree-Law, which was published in the State Official Gazette on 18 November and entered into force one day later, states that the application of a 0 % value-added tax rate to domestic deliveries, imports and intra-Community purchases of sanitary equipment to combat covid-19, the recipients of which are not-for-profit public entities and hospitals, which until 31 October 2020 was regulated by Article 8 of Royal Decree-Law 15 of 21 April, on urgent measures, is maintained until 30 April 2021. In addition to the above, the VAT rate applicable to intra-Community deliveries, imports and purchases of disposable surgical masks other than those mentioned above is temporarily reduced from 21 % to 4 %, in view of the widespread use that the population is being forced to make as a result of the prolongation of the pandemic. A measure in which the enabling budget for the use of the legal instrument of the Royal Decree-Law is deemed to have been adopted, as it is deemed to be necessary to introduce it immediately. But it seems to me more relevant than the actual decree, and I believe, in my view, that it is of greater economic and political importance, the determination of the Government of Spain to establish a maximum price for masks, so that on 21 April 2020 the agreement of the Interministerial Committee on Prices of Medicinal Products is produced, establishing that maximum amount of sales to the public of surgical masks of 0.96 euros, and that such price would be reviewed periodically as the monitoring of market prices requires, as has been the case. Because on 12 November the Government, through the Interministerial Committee on Prices for Medicinal Products, which is a collegiate body of the Ministry of Health, which also includes several ministries and autonomous communities, agrees to reduce by 25% the maximum amount of sales to the public of surgical masks, which will cost no more than 0.72 euros. The Commission fixed this price, after reviewing the current market prices for surgical masks in Spain, both in large areas and in pharmacy and online sales offices, in order to ensure free competition below the maximum price fixed. And the goal was for people to be able to access this health protection device under non-abuse economic conditions. Subsequently, the Government agreed to lower the maximum price for surgical masks from 72 cents to 62 cents, after the reduction of this VAT from 21 % to 4 % for this type of product was reflected in the Royal Decree-Law of 17 November of these urgent measures in support of corporate solvency to the energy sector and tax measures. And this price of 62 cents was adopted by the Interministerial Committee on Prices for Medicinal Products in accordance with the consolidated text of the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicinal Products. This is not a whim or the free will of the minister of duty. Undoubtedly, the price-limiting measure for masks, as well as the reduction in the VAT rate, has made it easier for vulnerable groups to access these products without harming their income situation. In addition, the Government spokesman has already pointed out that this reduction in the tax on masks will be maintained until 31 December next year, with the idea that this temporary horizon is sufficient. And the political assessment that the Basque Socialists make is as follows: First, the impact on the economy of citizenship has occurred with the limitation of the maximum selling price of masks. Secondly, there have been two reductions in the maximum selling price for masks established by the Government of Spain, which resulted in a 25% reduction in the price of the surgical mask. And if we add the VAT rate reduction to this price reduction, we are talking about a 35,4 % price reduction. That is to say, economically, the reduction in the VAT rate of 17 % results in a price reduction of 10 %. It has therefore been more effective to reduce the maximum price than to reduce VAT. This decision to reduce the applicable VAT rate from 21 % to 4 % is not taken by the Government until the European Commission has confirmed that it will not initiate infringement proceedings against our country for breach of European law. Because there is a breach of the rules of the European Commission. And, for the sake of rigour and legal certainty, until there is confirmation of how the Commission will act with Spain, the decision is not taken. In addition, we value the decision of the Government of Spain not to cut costs for the lower income generated by the VAT reduction, valued at between 350 and 850 million euros, depending on the duration of the pandemic. Nor would the reduction of the VAT rate, per se and without any other measure, mean an improvement in the price for Spanish citizens, compared with other countries. In Germany VAT is 5%, and the price of masks is 0.99, 99 cents. Portugal, with a VAT of 6 %, limited the profit of the sale by 15 %. Italy sets a VAT price of 0% by 2020, which was 50 cents of the mask, and will increase VAT by 2021 to 5.5%. And Spain, with the VAT of 21%, reached 72 cents the official price and in the supermarket, at least in my neighborhood, at the same time the unit of the surgical mask was 0.56 euros. Therefore, once again, it is clear that the most important and relevant measure for the domestic economy was the regulation of the maximum selling price for this product, not VAT. And, for these political considerations, the Basque Socialists, together with the Basque Nationalist Group, have tabled a comprehensive amendment to the proposal of the Basque People's Group and Citizens, which indicates that the Basque Parliament, in the face of the health crisis that we are suffering from, urges the Government of Spain to adopt, within its competence, those actions and measures in favour of citizenship in the fight against the covid-19, in compliance with the regulations and directives in force and with due legal certainty in its approaches, because it is its responsibility to act with legal certainty. And the Basque Parliament is in favour of the decision of the Spanish Government to reduce the tax rate on value added tax from 21 % to 4 % for pharmaceutical products that are obligatory, such as, today, disposable surgical masks, at least as long as we are in this state of health crisis. We therefore look forward to your support for the amendment that we have tabled together with the Basque Nationalist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. The initiative we are discussing is intended to achieve a reduction in the purchase price of these products, as in the case of masks, whose use is compulsory and, of course, to facilitate their acquisition by all citizens, especially bearing in mind, moreover, that the correct use of these products requires an important frequency of replenishment. Therefore, while the Basque Nationalist Party agrees with the spirit and sense of this initiative, and we put it this way in the Congress of Deputies by supporting an initiative of the People's Group in Madrid, the Basque Nationalist Party and Basque Socialists have tabled an amendment to the whole for various reasons, which will then be detailed. And there are five of them: The first, we're going to bull past. This is for starters. Because we are not surprised that the People's-Citizens Group is holding this debate when the Spanish Government has already taken steps to reduce the VAT on masks. Honestly, I thought they'd withdraw the initiative. Secondly, the second reason for my surprise is that the People's-Citizens Group proposes to reduce VAT only to masks and hydroalcoholic gels, but not to other products, such as gloves, protective screens or any other barrier to the contamination of the covid-19. Why can't one and the other? Why do gels do and protective screens or gloves don't? Third, temporality. We believe that this measure should be of a temporary nature, at least for as long as the pandemic lasts and, consequently, for as long as the masks are of compulsory use. On the other hand, the initiative of the People-Citizens Group does not contemplate it. In the room... Fourth reason is competence. Neither the Basque Parliament nor the Basque Government, unfortunately, are competent in this area, and therefore cannot interfere in an area that is not theirs. You are aware of this, as you propose that the Basque Parliament urge the Government of Spain to implement these measures. Please respect each institution's areas of competence. And we ask you not to use the Basque Parliament politically for initiatives that must be promoted in the Congress of Deputies, where all parties in this House have representation. We therefore ask, as I have already said, that they stop using the Basque Parliament as a political weapon, when the initiatives taken are well aware that they do not fall within their area of competence. And, in any case, present the initiatives at the right time, which is not this, since the measure has already been implemented in Madrid. And as a fifth question, and to close my argument, we must not forget, and it has already been mentioned in this Parliament, that these health products, for example, are exempt from VAT when the recipients of the supply are the health and hospital centres and that, moreover, the central government is already acting, setting the prices of these necessary products in the pandemic, which makes the most disadvantaged incomes have access to these products and not only through the reduction of the VAT rate. Ah, and by the way, I was reading it this morning, the latest idea from the Government of Spain, the exemption from VAT on vaccines and coronavirus tests, with which there is progress. And for these reasons it is why we do not understand the..., or are our arguments to present the amendment as a whole. And, yes, Mrs. Garrido, we have sensitivity; we are very sensitive, uh, but what we do is try to attenuate in our initiatives that, as we have seen, in yours, so we see that there is some deficiency. We have always defended the reduction of VAT to masks; there is nothing more to see than the interventions of the lehendakari and our representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party in the Congress of Deputies. The Basque Nationalist Party has always called for this reduction, until the Spanish Government has been able to implement it. One more example of the policy that PNV is going to make to Spain. Our requests have their answers. This is what we mean when we say that the Basque Nationalist Party goes to Spain for social and economic rights. Another example: esan eta egin. However, our requests are addressed to the bodies and institutions with competence in this area, which, although we do not like, is in the central government. If VAT were Euskadi's responsibility, it would make sense to see your initiative, Mrs Garrido; I therefore encourage you to fight in Madrid for the amendment of the Economic Concert, in order to agree on all taxes, including new taxes, and particularly VAT, which is our responsibility. Fight for greater self-government in Euskadi. I understand that there should be no problem in the fact that his colleagues in Madrid, both from the People's Group and from the Citizens' Group, defend and promote the Economic Concert, so his public interventions and his coalition programme are clear. There's no problem, is there? Eubertarians have always defended the teams, and we will defend that the economic auto-organization is everywhere to be established. And we plan hard to defend the Economonic concert and to update it. If then PP and Ciudadans defend it, we shall see in Congress, and we shall see the defence and position of each of them, even at this moment, when we see the central intention of some of the prosecutors of harmony. So, Mrs Garrido, we'll see you on the way. With respect to other corrections, as to the directness of Podemos and the EH Collectations, I find that the VAT has been an initiative in the union of the VAT, and that it has become an initiative in the Medical Department and in the town. That's why Mrs Garrido said that Mr. Tellegio was just about to lead this initiative. Ya sabe la phrase: provechando que el weighterga pass por Valladolid, pues, metemos differents iniciativas. I'd like to ask EH Collectonnio, forgive me if we can see what he's made the calculation and what the economic effect of correction is. I am not saying whether it is right or not to propose or not to examine this proposition, that this performance belongs to the department of health, and I think it would divert the discussion from that, but how many of them have been calculated or not to-day, for the initiative of the descent of the VAT has fallen into the economy and ogay. And I'd like to ask the EH Collect team if he'd examined why this cost should be taken by the Medical Department instead of within RGI, or why not including the municipal policies department. If you're looking at it, I'd like you to have an answer, a financial analysis, an examination of the organizational business and agestium, because you said it wouldn't be on the run for fun. But, besides the cost and who should bear it, there are many things to take into account. And I do not think they are valued in this amendment of EH Bildu. Single-use or reusable masks. Everyone or just the at-risk population. Everyone or just people with few resources. Why not certain risk groups, for example, over 65 years of age? Or patients with hypertension or cardiovascular disease? Or patients taking immunosuppressive drugs? Why not low rent or RGI? Do we buy them at pharmacies in every town, or do we make a centralized purchase? Well, a lot of questions... Nire esperientzia, diot udal mailan, at the local level, in the first wave of the pandemic was, in the face of the difficulty of obtaining them, regardless of their price, the purchase of reusable masks for the entire population over 65 years of age. When surgery is obtained, it is distributed to the young people who must go to class, ESO and Baccalaureate, and to the receiving population of RGI, sending it to their homes. When the masks came mostly to the market, it was observed that the aid should be directed from each social action department of the municipalities, in order to help in their acquisition to the groups that are in economic difficulty. And this is what we think is the way: collaboration and management from close proximity. Hori's got herds. Elkarrekin We can tadeko ekimenari dagokionez, you request to install free dispensers of masks and gels in the municipalities, in your original amendment. In this regard, I believe that in order to urge the Government to implement action for the municipalities, the initiative with the municipalities and Eudel must first be valued. Because, as far as I know, this is not a request that the municipalities have made nor is it a request made to Eudel, so it is not on Eudel's table. Therefore, the Basque Nationalist Party will obviously support support for the municipalities, but always in collaboration and dialogue with Eudel and the municipalities. At this point it is curious that we are always asked for cooperation, exchange of views, participation of all the collectives. But, on this occasion, no one has counted on Eudel or the opinion of the municipalities. We must preach with the example. It would be interesting and desirable if we could study the needs of the municipalities with Eudel, as I said, where the groups in this House are represented and where local needs can be analysed more closely. Therefore, to each one, please, the competences corresponding to it. That, as I said, without prejudice to our agreement with the original initiative of the People's Group, to reduce VAT to masks and to support municipalities in their needs, in line with what Elkarrekin Podemos asks in part. Amaitzeko, éta ez dut amaitu nahi esan barik, and go ahead my thanks to Mrs Ubera of EH Bildu for her willingness to send a compromise proposal; although, as I have already moved her, in our opinion, her proposal exceeded the objective of the initiative, in line with what I have already explained in this speech. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. We'll take the answers turn. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u115	Well, I was very pleased with the sentence with which the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party has finished her speech, because I will remind the members of the Basque Nationalist Party when they come out to defend their positions and initiatives in this House, that each one of them has the competence to do so. You already know that you are new in this House, but we have passed legislatures and legislatures by urging the Spanish Government to have multiple issues, and in many of them you have agreed with EH Bildu, to call for changes in prison policy, bringing prisoners closer, not to say the Ibarretxe Plan, which we had neither competence in the Autonomous Community itself, as it was clear and well dictated at the time. I hoped that, since you are going to Madrid to defend economic and social rights, it would have occurred to you to propose, as you said here – I know you have not forgotten – the reduction of VAT to products as essential as gloves or protective screens. But I have seen that, at the time of the budget procedure, they did not come up with such important issues as they seem to them at this time. You know very well, and the various speakers who have come out to this House know very well, that the reduction of VAT only affects disposable surgical masks, and that the most important masks for protection against the virus, whose recipients, in addition, are the most vulnerable people, are left out. The FPP2 masks are precisely those that use the most vulnerable groups and those that the agencies, experts and bodies that have to give their opinion on these issues tell us that they are the most suitable ones, especially for protection in spaces that are not ventilated against aerosols. I invite you to read the many reports on this issue. Therefore, we do believe that this is a very topical initiative, and the next one will tell you that it will not be the 4% reduction, but that, in line with what was presented at the Congress of Deputies, it will be the exemption, in line also with what is in other countries of the European Union. Well, the spokesman for Podemos... do not tell me about the management of your government and of Vice-President Iglesias; I will not remind you of everything that has to do with residences that are precisely within your competence. And, look, ladies and gentlemen, on this subject there have been excuses from the most pilgrims. The issue of collection, and then Europe was going to sanction us. But how was Europe going to sanction us, Mrs Corcuera, if there is a report on 5 May, that if I did not, that clearly says that no state was going to be punished for this matter? And tell me if not how countries in our environment, such as Portugal and France, lowered VAT without any sanctions. I do not know the letter received by the Minister, but I want to say that this report, as I say, is dated 5 May. To EH Bildu, well, we could remember, not only Mrs Murga's statements, we could also remind you of Mr Simon's statements, when he told us that it makes no sense for healthy citizens to wear masks. This from the masks gives us a specific chapter, within the book that in its day will be written about the pandemic. We believe that the most direct way was to urge the Spanish Government directly on this issue, because we do believe that this question directly affects the pocket of the Basque citizens. We believe that the government of the Socialist Party and We can clearly have gone to the blush of events, which has once again shown itself to be incapable of managing an absolutely essential matter, which has been left without arguments by not going beyond where it should have gone in the VAT reduction of all the masks and hydrogels, which is what our initiative calls for. Look, it's a government that, when WHO declares the health emergency on 30 January, the government minimizes the risks. We do not have to forget those statements made by Mr Illa on 28 February when he told us that nothing happened and that everything was under control. Those were joined by Mr Simon, whom I believe, more than one chapter each, would deserve a chapter in the pandemic book. Not only did they deny the pandemic, the epidemic, but they minimized its severity and magnitude. They heard all the warnings, including that of the WHO, of 14 February, addressing all the governments of the European Union, to assess the risk before any demonstration-concentration. I do not want to recall what all the concentrations that this government... and demonstrations that this Government authorized all those days. And, look, if the subject were not so tragic, if the state of alarm had been declared on March 7, a week earlier, we would have saved ourselves a lot of damage and a lot of suffering. In short, lack of forecast. There is a lack of foresight in the acquisition, of making it available to citizens, who we believe have been somewhat unprotected by this Government. Already the People's Party, and I'm finishing, Madam President, claimed on April 6 the price reduction... the reduction of VAT. And, as I say, we consider it appropriate to push it forward in this Parliament; we believe it is a topical initiative. I say to you that the next one that we will raise, also because it affects the pocket of the Basque citizens, because we do not expect the Basque Nationalist Party to present it; likewise, thanks to its influence, it presents it in Madrid. We will set the total VAT exemption for all of these products.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u116	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínin-Izón, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u117	Thank you. Well, this is what usually happens when the initiative loses its original sense or direction. Baina, well, nik pare bat gauza esan nahiko nituzke. Lehenik eta behin, Berrojalbiz anderari: gure zuzenketan –nik uste dut ez duzuela irakurri ondo edo –, zeren bear argi esaten du "study with the municipalities and study with other administrations"; the Basque Parliament does not say it will force the Bilbao City Council to do anything; it does not say that, moreover, it would be too prerogative for the Basque Parliament. So, I would like them to be read, and I believe that the amendments that we are trying to do the best we know and the best we can and, above all, based and consistent with other similar amendments that have been tabled in this regard. And then the only thing I will agree with Mrs Garrido is that this Basque Parliament can give its opinion and urge the Government of Spain, the European Commission and the United Nations, and it does so almost every week or every month. But it is that your amendment, the amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, urges the Government of Spain and is signed by you. I therefore believe that this Parliament has the competence to urge, request, request, suggest, rejoice, etc. towards the institution it considers, and I believe that it is also healthy, beyond the debate on competences, in which we should work on the... on, of course, on the one hand, the presentation of self-government and in which there are, therefore, some consensus on these matters, something else is then how we use the fiscal powers that we have here in Euskadi. By answering Mrs Garrido; that is to say, she has deviated, I think that the focus of her initiative is too much. Nor do I often like the tone and mud of state policy, but I believe that the statements you have made about the management of the Spanish government in the pandemic and the whole social shield and economic shield that has been put into effect, for I think you are quite unravelling, and here in this Parliament, too, because it does not stick so much; in fact, it is like this out of the management of the residences of Pablo Iglesias... I think that, well, that statement and the campaign of fake news and bubbles carried out by your party around the management of the whole government of Spain and, in particular, of my colleague, Vice-President Pablo Iglesias are quite discredited. And the same with the statement you made regarding the supply of materials and VAT... Of course, that is why we must have a certain memory of what has happened. I think there are two planes that have bought the Community of Madrid that have been flying since March, April, or I don't know when the Community of Madrid bought medical supplies, so let's be serious about this. I believe that the Government of Spain and the vast majority of the autonomous communities, at first, did what they could, and then, for months, they have been working to ensure as much as possible the material and, of course, now what would not be justifiable, under no circumstances, would be the lack of material in December, already in 2020, but let us not take advantage of the things of the first minutes that we all suffered, all of us even criticized and all of us were nervous and nervous, but to speak right now of December. I therefore believe that, of course, we will be left with the compromise; it is true that it is a text, our text and that of the parties that support the Government, which I believe was perfectly marketable, but, well, it has not been so, and, indeed, well, because it is also a little consistent with what we think and what we are doing here and in the Spanish Government, we will also abstain from the amendment of the PNV and the PSE, which, well, I would like to reiterate to the ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party that they urge the Spanish Government to deepen its policies and improve them and we would also like to see that VAT cut also in more health products. And, well, we will also continue to work from the Government of Spain, from the Basque Parliament and from the Congress of Deputies, so that this reduction in VAT to all health products can be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u118	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u119	Perhaps I'm a lawyer, Mrs. Berrojalbbiz, but this product, this mask. [[Touched the mask on the face]] He's come to stop, probably not as we use him now, but we'll have to use him for several fields and times. And surely the manners and culture of the people of the East must be acquired. So when you said it was just a moment, well, I doubt it; but, well, I can get to practice. Yet, and from all modesty, I say to you: I know we don't have the experience of management you have. Yeah, I know. And in that, well, you have more experience and more knowledge. At the very moment we had proposed a meeting with you and even in the inner grade, which would have been April or May, and I do not remember the month very well. But that's what the chief health department will tell you, which one it was. And we're waiting for an answer. We're the ones who appreciate it. We have done our estimates, and whenever you like, we meet and oppose them. But if you want to make your estimates, I've made it very clear how we'd set it up today, and you can get your estimates out of it. Look, we get benefits from E-nez, okay? That's a system in the chemist's. According to a decree of 2012, in June 2013, some settlements were made how the prices of medicine should be applied, yes? And there's a little bit with your health card. There's a space for people who don't have a income, 001. Then you've got pensioners, zero2, you know, then you've got 18,000 rent to the people. And there you can calculate... and then you can calculate how much it would cost. Besides, we've made it clear, we've made it clear... A surgical mask, one day, one day, we know it's recommended for four hours, but we hit the minimum: one day. So you can already calculate or appreciate it and compare it with our esteem. And this is already done in the informal application; there is no need to do, there is no need to guess. And we were thinking at the moment that it was a vital product, which was necessary, less than a few collectives... We have gone to the most vulnerable collectives, and they have a right to obtain them for free, because now we hear more and more, and moreover, even in the sanatoriums and so many deserts, they do not allow themselves to enter with masks. Then we think that these collectives, a minimum, must be guaranteed. That's all. And we're here to propose that. Madrid... We could ask Madrid for whatever you want. And here it's done a lot. The last spokesman told you that, too, everybody does that. But we wish to be States, and, as we wish to be state, we endeavour to promote, promote, and promote, as far as possible, those who are concerned. And, by the way, I'll tell you something else: This system of E-rezeta, the decree of 2012, when it was done, was also said to us. That was the compensation. Do you remember the repaying of botics? Well, we were told that this was established by Madrid, that we couldn't do anything from here. We made a proposal here to make up for it to the people. We didn't get a hundred percent and we don't even say it, maybe it wasn't just our idea. You might have had that idea, too, but we were told not to. And then you applied it. Not like we said, but you applied it. And that's where it comes from. It is therefore possible to do with the bladder, or with other products which are necessary to the sight of it, with some healthy products. Well, for example, look what they've done in Scotland, even with other medical products recently, which might be interesting to break that way, well, compresses, Tampaxs... There may be a lot of opportunities in other countries, even in other countries, with the necessary medical products, and this would make the lives of all of them Exodus and above all the most vulnerable of all. So, whenever you like... Well, if you don't see today that this didn't have any other suggestions, we can sit down another time and check it out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u121	Yes, thank you, President. First of all, Mrs Garrido, this is not an excuse for the 1.5 billion euro issue, which could be the result of a reduction in VAT. What you leave out is that this debate takes place within the budgetary framework and that it is therefore compulsory to determine, when an initiative is proposed, what the cost of that initiative is. And so, that's why the government says that this initiative costs 1.5 billion euros and that, therefore, it didn't go into the... let's say, the budget study that was... which had been drawn up for the general budgets of the State. Mrs Garrido, the important thing, I keep saying, the important thing is not VAT. I've proven it with economic data. What does the fall in the price mean in relation to the fall in VAT? And no doubt, no doubt, which is a 35... 25 % lower price is the regulation made by the State. The tax... VAT, which represents a reduction of 17%, means that the price falls by only 10%. So don't cheat, don't cheat... I understand that when you have your party in Madrid and they force you to transpose certain debates into other forums, well, you come here with the margin you give in your group or in your political party. But, of course, it's not true what you're telling. That there's no political will? That there's no political will? But what are you talking about? But if before you put down the VAT discount, there was already a discount on the price of the mask... But what are you talking about? Secondly, this is not, no, it was a... it's an invention of the minister in charge, this is an invention and the excuse of the European Commission. Well, no excuses, no excuses... Look, there was a judgment of the European High Court of Justice, by which in 2013: "The Court of Justice of the European Union rejects reduced-rate taxation of goods such as gloves, masks, disinfectant gels and other similar products". And until it is done, until the Commission is consulted, I understand that it is the responsibility of a Government to maintain the legal certainty of all the acts it carries out. And, therefore, until you receive that confirmation that there will, let us say, be no penalty for that offence which is committed, because an infringement continues to be committed, neither the regulation nor the directive has changed; it has not changed, it has not changed, Mrs Garrido, no matter how much you commit, it has not changed. And, therefore, it is an infringement. So we have to make sure that the acts go with the corresponding legal certainty. If not, if not, we'll be fooling the population. And then, it will be a demagogic proposal in that case. Another issue, the issue of gels, because I forgot to tell you earlier. The subject of gels is that they are not classified as products of combat against the covid. And you'll miss us a lot, but they're not listed as combat products for the covid. The unanimity of all the Member States of the Commission is necessary if VAT is to be reduced. So clear. In short, the Member States of the European Union can set their tax rates, always within limits. "Where there are products which are not specifically assessed by the European Directive, to which reduced VAT is intended, the decision must be taken unanimously by all Member States within the Council, on a proposal from the European Commission, even in the event of such an exceptional situation as that generated by the COVID-19 pandemic." This is the issue of gels, not political wills. We also have little papers, and I'm also going to pass it to you to read it. On the issue of 30 January. Yes, here it was known, everyone knew that the World Health Organization on January 30 had given notice that masks had to be worn. Hey, do you know that I was here on February 10th in the last committee, for a car show... we were here a number of people, parliamentarians and parliamentarians without any masks? Absolutely nothing? February 10, February 10, this year. And that same afternoon, in addition, the autonomic elections were called, the Parliament was dissolved, pardon? Well, nobody, nobody wore masks; we were all so quiet. I think you were also, Mr. Otero, weren't you, in the auto show, the first one... Casanova, I'm sorry... Yes, yes, excuse me, Casanova. I mean, there were a number of people here from the parliamentary groups that we weren't wearing masks, that is, that the WHO, come on, brought it to us in pairs, a little less. A little less! March 8th. I repeat to you again because I believe that the previous time I also talked about health, you came out with the theme of March 8. Hey, what about the second wave? The second wave we're experiencing, is this one also to blame on March 8th? Oh, yeah? Oh, okay, okay. Well, nothing, you stay with March 8th. And I keep urging him: change the means of communication of the head; it will be very good for him, and at least he will step on reality. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Jo, when Mrs. Garrido said she was going to use my last sentence she almost gave me a heart attack, because it was "eskerrik asko" and thanks to Mrs. Ubera. But, well, I keep it, by the way, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs Garrido, being new does not mean that you are not aware of this issue, because some years I have devoted myself to this subject in the private sector, that is, a little respect. But it is curious how you focus on the point of urging the Government of Spain, which is a very small part of my intervention, and you have not answered my question to see if you have any problems in promoting self-government, defending the Economic Concert and concluding the new taxes. It is curious that he did not focus on that part of the intervention. Arrieros we are and on the way we will meet, Mrs. Garrido. Mr. Martínez Zatón – as I have so much red, I look like my partner Jon Aiartza– [[Barres]] ... Mr. Martínez Zatón, a respect for the work of others, to read, for the time being, just-just, but we know. What I have told you is that this proposal for revision and study is not a request and request of the municipalities and is not even raised in Eudel; it is not as well expressed to me, and it apologizes at that point, but it is what I meant, or it may be the lack of knowledge in the functioning of Eudel. And Mrs. rebeka, okay. the perfect opportunity to work with the health world and the proper time for studying things. So all right, and that's the time for our model and cooperation. We, as I said before, will fight – and so it goes in our amendment, in which we urge the Government of Spain – to take, in the face of the health crisis that we are suffering, actions and measures in the field of their competences – each with its powers – in favour of citizens in the fight against covid-19, but always in compliance with the regulations and directives in force, and with due legal certainty in their approaches. But we in Euskadi must make our way and forge our future: establish our public policies, our aid programmes to deal with the current health crisis, strengthen our self-government and have our space in Europe. We to our own, always fighting for a Euskadi looking to Europe. Thank you, and that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Now that we have finished our discussion, I shall place the original text of the proposition of Euscala, Populara-Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 40; votes given, 75; in favour 6; in the contrary, 68; in the case of Absence, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u125	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote together with Podemos-Nozzin and the EH Collectors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 40; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary is 48; the abstations are 0; white ones; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u126	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. And in the end, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Euccanists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the assembly, 40; the votes given, 75; 41; the contrary, the contrary 27; the abstainments 7; white ones, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-10.u127	So it's accepted. Next, I'll read a statement. As President of the Basque Parliament, I make my statement as an expression of the rights of Childe-Eulectarian Acionists Vascos, EH, Socialists Vascolists, together Podedes Escalialists, Esculi-Euscizerz, and Euchary-Cula-Cellanos parlamentary. (I will read the sum, and the whole statement is on the Basque Committee's site.) "By this declaration which we have admitted today, we wish to confirm the commitment of the Eustacious law to the rights of children and teenagers, more legitimate, more effective, and more supportable. This is why we are engaged to take measures, and all this is for our purpose; to consider in all the decisions which this organization receives, as in the case of the crisis, in the recovery of all those who have consequences to children and teenagers, the principles of the Convention of Childs, namely, the right to live, to live, to live, live, and to develop, to participate in the absence of dissecration, and the equality of the genus. "To impersonate members in the subjection and continuation of the security of children's rights. "That actions may always be done in our corporate co-ordinately, with indirect rights to the committees of the legislature. "To monitor the impact of covid-19 on children and adolescents living in Euskadi, especially those most vulnerable groups, as well as the plans envisaged by the competent administrations. "To this end, we must take into account emergency social assistance provided to families with minor children, prioritizing the most vulnerable, single-parent families, among others. "Educational programmes for girls and boys at risk of dropping out of school, disability or a digital divide. "Urban planning and mobility strategies, an approach to children and sustainability. Spaces that promote play and sport, care and respect for the environment, access to green and healthy spaces, without pollution, as well as the development of outdoor and nature activities. Protective spaces, where children can learn to understand, share and manage their emotions and where they find protocols to protect against all forms of violence. "Property and/or housing alternatives worthy of the size and conditions of families, with common spaces to play, move and socialize. "Resources to families to foster positive parenting and facilitate family activities. "The participation of children and adolescents in decisions affecting them and in all areas where they interact. "The adequacy of all services for the detection, care and comprehensive protection against all forms of violence, so that the protection of children can be strengthened. "From the Eus Act, we believe that the foregoing measures will bring us nearer to our fellow-citizens, to their wants, and will give us the opportunity of answering the children to the crisis of Covid-19, in an integrated strategy which will place them in the centre of their convalescence. And at the same time, strengthen our commitment to the attainment of the goals of 2030 agenda to us for ten years. And that's how we sign up today with kids and teenagers and the future of Euskadia and the commitment we've got to leave no one behind. It's just that, since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-three.
