ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I must inform you that the tenth point in the subject list has been withdrawn. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the question of Gorka Abylvarez, of the parliamentary members of the Society of Eubert, of the Governor-General of the Public and Autobernus, of the interest of the people in the condition of Pandemia." Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, congressmans and ladies, good morning to all. You mentioned in the present situation that the plague of COVID-19 has shaken us so strongly that the administration is not only a good function of the administration, but that it is an instrument which interests officers or politicians only, and which works best for all citizens. From our group, from Euzko Abertzaleak, we believe that the Basque public administration must take a step forward, continue to evolve, be proactive and anticipate the demands of the citizens of Euskal Herria; moreover, under principles such as proximity and simplicity in treatment, agility and efficiency in processing, transparency in management, digital renewal and accountability. That is why, knowing that for this Government citizenship is at the centre of its political action, of its public policies and that it also puts at its disposal different channels to be able to meet these demands, we would like to know what has been the evolution of the attention that the Basque Government has directed to the population since we were in a pandemic situation. Thank you, beforehand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. To answer, Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u3	President, Chief, congressmans, good morning. Mr. Álvarez, before answering your question with exact facts, I would like to consider the structure and solidity of our administration before we arrive at pandemia. From one day to another, when this terrible situation which we were not expecting has come upon us, our services and workmen have been promoted. The Coronabirus has caused many doubts and concerns in the community, and consequently there have been many who have appealed to the Administration for information, explanations, or transferments. We can clearly see this if we compare the data of the past months and the date of the same year. The number of euskals, which have been used by the Euskals, or other questions, or tramites, in advance and telematically. We have a number of platforms for this purpose, all of which were used before the pandema, but this use has now grown much. The data is meaningful, Mr. Álvarez. The live service promotion has been significant in the past few months, by telephone attention, instant messaging, and presidedly. If we look to the previous, from the day on which the offices opened again (from the 21st of May) 12,000 people have come up to the offices with their first appointment. As to the care of the phone, we have received nearly 2100,000 calls from the beginning of the settlement until the end of October (more than 230,000 calls at the same time of the month). And it is that to guarantee that quality service that I am talking about we have made a considerable effort by strengthening Zuzenean's staff with 20 more people, so that face-to-face and telephone care will not be resisted. The use of the euskadi.eus mailbox has also increased noticeably (we duplicate the 2019 data): we have received and answered 44,000 queries through this platform. In addition, by instant messaging there have been about 9,000 queries (four times more than the previous year). The pages of the portal network of euskadi.eus have been visited 166 million times between March and October, an increase of 14 million over the same period last year. The contents on COVID-19 at Basquedi.eus have generated more than 10 million visits. And the contents of open data in general have received about 400,000 visits in what we have been doing for the year, doubling by a lot the total of 2019. For its part, the electronic headquarters of the Basque Government has increased from 436,000 users from March to October 2019 to 846,000 for the same period of this year (94% increase). Finally, the option "Nire karpeta", "My folder", has also recorded a significant growth: 1,300,000 more users and an increase of 74% in visits. There is, therefore, no doubt about it; During these difficult months, we've also been over a few steps in the administration and the community's relationships. We've fortified the channels, easier, faster, more efficient and more transparent. We'll keep this bet especially because, in this state of pandemy, we've got more than ever to facilitate the lives of the people. That's our commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Second point on the subject list: "I'm asking you, the members of the Casanova Alonso ARGD to the president, about the measurements that the host has suffered and the closures of the department." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u5	Good morning to all of you and especially to the representatives of the sector host who are with us today. Sometimes, Mr Urkullu, your forgetfulness is more revealing of your real political position than your statements. You sign an employment agreement with the employer and forget that there are unions. You present projects to the European funds and forget that there are three territories in this country, and by the way, more than three companies, and you decree the closure of the hotel shop and you forget that more than 60,000 people stay on the street. When the closure was decreed you announced that all the hospitality assistance programs were in place; the problem is that at that time there was none in force. The restrictions taken to prevent Pandemia have had a special effect on this sector. They've had to shut it up in their first confinement. They've been opening it with great contortions for the past few months and now they're closed again. According to September 30th, before reopening the closure, the hosting revenues have dropped at 40% this year, compared to the year before. The situation was already unbearable, and now it has become critical. That's why we ask you, Mr. President. Will your government, for once, take enough precautions to support the sector that it needs to survive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u6	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u7	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Mr. Casanova, the answer is yes. The question is, if the critical situation of the host is to promote the sector, it's gonna be a good idea to keep it running. On March 24th, we put the first urgent assets on for small and average companies. We agreed to a financial aid program for the 21st March. On May 19th, we accepted the 15 million fund for commercial activity and hosting. We accepted 150 euros support for workers who are in ERTE and make less than 20,000 euros. On November 3nd, last November, before closing, we completed the hosting aids. This Tuesday, in the first Council of Government after closing, we have added 30 million dollars to our friends. For small and autonomous companies, we keep the credit line open for $250 million dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u9	Is that a dubious nahikoak? I say this for the third or fourth time in the last few days: who are the hotel workers going to believe: you or your current accounts? You can't say that this situation was invisible. Este parlamentari le advitio al consejero aquaí, el passo 16 de octubre, Literalmente; Pass me si se decreta mañana el cire de la hosteleía? La respuesta del Gobierno: "Dar lagas, no prever medicas, hablar de nuevos foros interinstineles y, cudo llegu el citer, ninda disponible." And now you're making improvisations, putting crabs behind them, never showing the ability to get ahead and give a suitable solution. You've already announced some measures and some of them that you rejected when EH Collect presented them. Now, in front of social pressure, it's got to be allowed to do something. When they saw the giant wave of mobilization they forgot about that of "We will study if more aid is needed, we can discuss if what is much or is little, this is complex to process, we need not know what interinstitutional structure", and they rushed to improvise necessary aid, yes, but late, partial and insufficient. His Government was moving only to trailer social, media and political pressure. Follow us for the rest of the measures we propose to you, which are the consequences of the request of the sector. It is essential to offer a solid legal solution that allows rents to be reduced. It is essential to provide stable aid for the sector, because its problem is not reduced to this closure or to the previous one, but it remains and will continue provided that there are restrictions limiting its activity. As long as the limits of activity are set, stable and sufficient helpers must be set. They need compensations when they're marked for the enclosures and the lowness of the income. There are thousands of establishments and employments under the influence of the effective application of this government. We ask you to take the initiative and convene the Bureau of Hospitality and Tourism, and to address together with the sector your real needs in an integral way, without further improvisation or contempt for the sector. To articulate at that table a comprehensive rescue plan for the hotel industry and to provide it with sufficient funds and to maintain it as long as the current crisis situation continues. The future of Basque hospitality as we know it is at stake. Hundreds of establishments are already closing and it will be many more in the future if no action is taken. These people, who have been suffering from an economic, physical and psychological nightmare since March, deserve a government to give them an answer, and their government is failing them. They need support, security, protection, stability and certainty. Answer them, and do it now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u10	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. The President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Casanova, I have already explained to you the measures that we have been taking from last 24 March to 3 November, recently passed, and which are absolutely in force. I'll tell you what, Mr. Casanova. All these subsidies, and even those that belong to the host, after working with the sector and co-working. And we've started a team of 20 professionals to ease the management, Mr. Casanova. We know that closing is a painful measure, with economic consequences. We delayed this decision with sensibility as much as we could in the LABI council. But it is essential to avoid social transmission, which, I repeat, is self-interest. Let us not take care of each of us either in the other or in the outside or in the one or in the other sector. We have to cut the relationships and keep the bubble of six people. That's the important thing. We admit that the sector is making a lot of effort to make bars and restaurants safe. He's doing it. I repeat that in this legislature the sector is not responsible for this situation. We have all the respect for the sector for working with them, as we said, we've created four tables. I can't understand the attitude of the Basque People gathering, your two faces, Mr. Casanova. You've asked to close all activities over and over again. Then, when it closes, you get excited. This is a political demagogue and a holidayntism. You proclaimed the closing of all kinds of economic activities in the holy week. For you, company, industry, education, bar and no restaurant. This was his proposal: a complete closure and general confinement. We can't live like the virus doesn't exist. Health authorities recommend that interaction and social relations be kept to a minimum. We're on stage five out of five, from the forecasts of the Bizi Berri plan, released six weeks ago, when we were on stage three. You have accused us of taking more account of the economy than people's lives, a grossly false accusation. We act from the principle of responsibility and proportionality in the measures to be taken at all times. We maintain the balance between the greater good, which is public health, and the lesser evil, of the possible ones, which are restrictive measures. Let's not always look elsewhere. Responsibility begins with the attitude of each person. It is in our hands to avoid the collapse of health care and general confinement, Mr Casanova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in the theme list. "To ask the question, Ekain Rico, a member of the Basque Socialists of the team of the second vice presidents and Lans and Empedugus, in order to challenge the production of employment in favor of the success of social and organizations." Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Vicelehendakari, since her inauguration on 8 September, announced her intention to have all the social and institutional actors to address the challenge of promoting the creation of quality jobs. As you know, the Socialists deeply appreciate the importance of social dialogue. A fundamental bet that has been collected in the government agreement and that is also manifested, through the clear commitment of this government, with the best tool of concertation with which we count, which is the Social Dialogue Bureau, recovered 10 years ago by the government of the lehendakari Patxi López and now consolidated to conclude public policies, to protect workers and to create quality employment. We are very aware of the different views of the organizations around the Social Dialogue Bureau. And while waiting for the table to be completed, you have announced that this government will keep open all channels of dialogue with all trade unions and representation of the various business sectors. But beyond the differences that exist today, our commitment is that there are all those who have to sit. Because the Socialists are committed to the search for agreements and to conciliation as a method of work, and we believe that this must be done by the hands of the social partners. Because from dialogue and negotiation it is from where the problems are solved, even the most sought after, as we have seen recently with the Gipuzkoa metal agreement, and because from dialogue and negotiation we will be able together to address solutions in the current scenario of uncertainty in which the second wave of the pandemic puts us. Mrs Vicelehendakari, in these two months we have seen how you have fulfilled your first commitment by holding different meetings with the social partners, which have coincided with the presentation of the Berpiztu programme, which has as its axis economic revival and employment, and also with your attendance to explain the strategic lines of your department, and, in this regard, we would like to ask you what the evaluation of Vicelehendakari is after this first round of contacts. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u14	Thank you, Mr. Rico. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u15	Thank you, Madame's head of the table. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, President, chief officers, members of the legislature. I really believe this government has invented the prevention of legislation, because it is the priority of social and economic agents and social economy, cultivated with the other institutions: the townships, the Aldudias, and the Spanish Government. We've taken care of everyone's contributions to improve the regenerate program. Now, I want to contact the MPs. We've got a lot of points of agreement, and after we've talked about the situation the president creates in the pandema, I want to talk about all the teams in business and jobs. As Mr Rico said, of course, in these two months I have held more than twenty public meetings with all these social and institutional actors. And in those meetings, in addition to sharing a diagnosis of the seriousness of this crisis, we also wanted to analyse what we have done well, because many things have been done well, from the Government and from the productive sectors of the country. And that explains why in September we had hopeful unemployment data and that October reflected an intense recovery in employment and membership. Let's keep that idea. Before the pandemic broke out, we had placed unemployment below 10%. And before the second wave expanded we had managed not only to sustain the jobs threatened in March, but to start recovering the lost: 7,979 jobs. That is, in two months we had recovered 27% of the employment lost in the previous six months. Things had been focusing properly, and now we are determined to fight the pandemic so that we can continue to grow; to grow with more social justice and better conditions, as I say to you, with innovation, with dialogue and with equality. And on this path we want to deepen the congress that we are going to hold at the end of this month. We have focused on the model of the Basque employment system that we need, especially in the light of the challenges of this twenty-first century. Not only to the challenges of digitisation, ecological transition and demographic transformation, but also to the opportunities presented to us at this crucial moment. We have a well-defined guide: the Berpiztu program. A cross-cutting vision of the Government with the rest of the institutions. We have the Social Dialogue Bureau, the best instrument for concerted public policies in favour of employment, where all agents have their seats and where they can contribute. And we also count on all parliamentary groups to share measures that generate quality employment opportunities with adequate training for workers. Therefore, with the conclusions of the congress that we are going to hold in two weeks, with the strategic lines that you already know and with that framework of reference that is the Berpiztu program, I will meet with all the groups to transfer directly their reflections and contributions that can improve this road map. Because we all have to be humble in the immense challenge posed by this pandemic. It is the Government, even if we have an absolute majority to take all our projects forward. And it must also be an opposition that knows that it cannot be a government, but it can demonstrate its ability to influence the public policies that this government takes forward and that mark the future of this Basque society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the Podemos-IU team made to the president about the new reductions to the crisis of health." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Urkullu, the other day, you gave me a document when we had the meeting before. And in that document, the government thought, the coincidences between our programs were underlined. But things are not so simple. Let us take an example, one of these coincidences: Watches, for instance. The feminist movement has been saying for a long time that the surveillance system is in crisis, and with COVID, the surveillance system has entered the collapse. Before that we made a proposal here, in this Parliament, to create a pomp. A power, in which it would be thoroughly disputed, would be reflected in the formation of a guard- system of euscala. And the sects that support the government voted against it. In connection with this, this is the question: Do you think it is necessary to increase the social shield to protect those who are most injured? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. We have a social secret to protect the people who have most harmed this crisis. It's an issue that's in force that can give you that answer. In all, we've driven 937 million euros, including 489 Medical Department, 138 to Education and 107 to social protection. We've moved more resources to health service, we've got over 3.500 professionals working a year ago. In education, we hired 2,000 more professionals. We've given more help to people who have the greatest need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u21	Mr. Urkullu. As I said before, we are experiencing a profound crisis of care. For example, do you know the situation faced by residential workers, that so, so feminized sector? There is no response to their labor demands. Yesterday, in fact, in Arrasate, a strike was announced and, of course, it is not the first. These situations, however, can be reversed. I told him last week at that meeting, when I handed him the Duintasunez plan we proposed for the construction of a Basque social shield. And in it we specifically propose a Basque pact for the care and sustainability of life that contemplates the creation of a community public care system to foster a model change with a country vision, that once and for all covers the needs of our society, achieving social co-responsibility in care. Through this proposal, the answer we get to this model, in the words of the Counsellor for Equality, Justice and Social Policies, is that our proposal is demagogic and that it is socially and economically unsustainable; socially and economically unsustainable. We're talking about care, we're not talking about a new, expensive, unnecessary toy. Where, then, are the programmatic coincidences, if this model of ours that we propose is not worth? What's yours? The counselor seemed to clarify it with a sentence. He said: "Would it be worth losing the care of families or the organized solidarity of civil society?". That is, a volunteer model that goes out for free to the administration. This is simply painful. I mean, they want us to care for free and they want us to care for families and civil society. If we continue with this model, the care will fall on the usual ones, women; they will care for women, both in families and in civil society. The effort that citizens are asked for must be accompanied by an effort by the Administration to cover the care that cannot be stopped. Putting lives at the centre means considering that reproductive and care and productive work are equally indispensable. It is not to believe that a Basque public care system is demagogic, but an obligation of human rights and social justice towards inequality, which is structural for women.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Gorrotxategi. If I am not mistaken, the question was whether I consider it necessary to extend a social shield to protect the most disadvantaged. I have given you all the information on what the reorientation of the budget is as a result of COVID-19. Nevertheless, Madam, I will tell you that the Ministry of Social Rights in the Spanish Government has published two facts: Basque poverty rate is 8%, and in the state, 18%. And the aid of the Basque Government is the support of 63%, and in the state, only 8%. Do we have to keep getting better? Yes, certainly. But we'll have to follow the beaten way. We have a social and effective budget. Next year's budget, we have a great opportunity to follow that road. Mrs Gorrotxategi, you know that the Basque Government has been anticipating scenarios and response measures, always since collaboration in the case of the response also because of the condition of the coronavirus, within the LABI and also in relations with the Spanish Government. From 15 March to 26 October, 17 conferences of presidents have been held. I have put forward 55 positive proposals, structured into the three main priorities: health, social cohesion and economic recovery and employment. At my meeting with you, we noted the confluence between your proposals and the government program. It is not as simple as you were saying, Mrs Gorrotxategi, but we have analysed your nine proposals in the social field, which also include what you proposed, in a very concrete way, in today's sitting, beyond what was the question posed to the lehendakari. And we have analyzed those purple-coloured proposals, according to what their proposal is. These proposals were part of our programme of priorities, and we are addressing them in collaboration with the entities and institutions involved. Look, we have an approved budget and a social protection system that is proving effective. The current budget provided by you will allow us to allocate an additional 489 million to health, 138 million to education or 107 million to social protection. We have a budget availability on funding lines through Elkargi. We have, Mrs Gorrotxategi, meeting points and the willingness to add proposals at this time so committed and difficult. We have the opportunity to continue a social and effective budget, which allocates three out of four euros to social policies and protects, protects people who need it the most. We reiterate our open and loyal offer to continue this budgetary agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Anglo-Estulal Group of the popular-Ciudadans to the president, because of the pandemy of COVID-19, the new restriction of economic activity has seriously caused by the introduction of the host and company of other sectors." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. [[He showed me a glass.]] Mr. Urkullu, this is a cup of coffee. An empty cup of coffee. Empty, as there are so many restaurants, bars and cafes in our land, they cannot give coffee when – you know – other establishments do, and there is a comparative aggravation between them. A bar or coffee shop – I emphasize: coffee shop – that gives food to take away cannot sell a coffee, and has to be looking for cookies, biscuits or muffins. I understand that action must be taken, no doubt. And that action must be taken when virologists, in addition, are asking you and other autonomous presidents to take such action to fight the coward. I hope that the incline Jonan Fernández is not the expert who asks for these measures. I've talked to colleagues who know you and tell me that you've had a very bad time taking those measures, that you've had to close restaurants, cafes and bars. But the difference is in some forms and in the background, compared to yours. And the difference – I tell you – is that some closed by giving help immediately and you failed from the very beginning. The closure came with lack of anticipation and improvisation on his part. There were restaurants that lost all their perishable food for weddings and events. The closure came without sufficient meetings with the sector to notify them. The closure came with some palliative measures, yes, which were poor and insufficient, as the sector continues to demand. They're asking for $187 million. Andalusia – you know – has offered 660 million for the sector. And Euskadi is one of the richest communities in this country. We spend millions of euros on superfluous bars, we spend millions of euros on ETBs, we spend millions and millions on superfluous issues, and the hoteliers, the hoteliers, on this land, are offered less than half of what they are asking for. This is a downfall to hospitality, which has been suffering not since this month but since March and since April, and which is a sector that has complied with the rules. For all this it cannot surprise you, lehendakari, that the sector is angry, angry, angry, tired and that they mount demonstrations to protest. And they ride them because they haven't taken the hospitality sector seriously. The sector needs measures, they need "zero income, zero taxes". Do you know that you have already passed the sector two or three weeks ago that the sector has to pay the taxes and that, if you do not pay those taxes, then you will not be able to access the aid? The sector also needs that, if the closure is forced – forced by the Basque Government – the Basque Government itself has to pay the autonomous quotas. The sector needs more direct aid, as they are asking, for rent and mortgages. The sector needs a plan. A plan as is being made in Germany with Mrs Merkel's European People's Party, where 75% – and you know it – 75% of what was billed in November of the previous year is being given to the sector. We therefore need, above all, the sector to have guarantees for this month and for the following months. The hosting sector needs help and restrictions. In this sector, business is at stake, as you know, Mr. President, but family lives, and that's the situation of emergency right now. That's why we want to know what you're going to do to solve this situation, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me, Mr Iturgaiz, to begin by telling you that the decisions taken by LABI are always based on the criteria of the health authorities, taking into account the analysis of three factors: incidence rate in 14 days, rate of reproduction and percentage of occupancy of UCI beds. That, moreover, the global strategy against the covid and its consequences is based on three criteria: strategy of care organization in hospitals and in ICU, plan of surveillance, control and tracing of cases and contacts and plan Bizi Berri, focused on the regulation of activity and the adaptation of social habits to the evolution of the pandemic. And the Government's criteria for determining economic aid are: analysis of the consequences of decisions taken, proximity, listening and dialogue with the sector and aid measures, with the maximum consensus with the sectors and public institutions involved. We have taken action from the very beginning. On 24 March, 11 days after the health emergency, the Basque Government launched the first emergency aid for small and medium-sized enterprises. On March 31, we approved the Programme of Financial Support for Self-employed Professionals. On May 19, a fund of 15 million for commerce and hospitality. Mr. Iturgaiz, you know that. In addition, we approve to pay in a complementary way the ERTE of the Spanish Government, proposed by me at the first of the conferences of presidents: 150 euros per month for those who have revenues less than 20,000 euros per year. You know that, Mr Iturgaiz; you should know that. Outlaws and municipalities have taken fiscal measures to support or promote consumption. You should know that, Mr. Iturgaiz. This Tuesday we have expanded the direct assistance to hospitality by 30 million more. We have 250 million available from the credit line to businesses and self-employed, backed by Elkargi, at 0% interest and a year of lack, at the proposal of the Basque Government. You should know that, Mr. Iturgaiz. We have committed an urgent management unit with 20 people dedicated exclusively to speeding up the administrative management of hospitality aid. All the institutions gathered in LABI know that the measure of closure is painful for thousands of families. We're willing to make up for the losses. We have acknowledged the sector's efforts to ensure that bars and restaurants are safe places, and I repeat in this House that the sector is not at all guilty of this situation. The Scientific Committee has understood that these measures need to be taken because the evolution of contagion is increasing, serious and very worrying. Other communities have acted similarly. It is a tough but necessary measure to prevent a collapse in our health system and to ensure public health. This is the central criterion and the priority. I did not want to enter the German model in this case, Mr Iturgaiz. And I do not want to go into the German model; the question remains in the air: would we be willing to take on the German model of payment, of 75% of the aid billed in the month, of the billed? Would we be willing? We know difficulties better than we know them, and therefore I offer you once more to pay attention to the rendezvous, Mr. Iturgai. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u29	Mr Urkullu, what are you accusing them of not paying the taxes on the hoteliers? It's very serious, huh?, what you're saying. I do know that the hoteliers are sinking them with measures...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u30	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Sir, your time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, in front of the German model, Basque model. You see, it is a priority to unite and cooperate in such an extraordinary situation for the public good. We have the same goal: to secure public health and the welfare of all men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, Madia Martíne, a member of the Mistho team, a functionary of Jonan Fernández as the co-ordination of the COVID-19 Committee of Technic." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u33	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, councillors, Mr Lehendakari. In Vox we understand that the functions of the technical coordinator to combat COVID-19 must be based on rigorous and effective control of the basic issues affecting the subject matter in question, not only political, but also technical; even more so when we face a pandemic that is leaving thousands dead and ruining too many Basque families. Therefore, we would like to ask you: what are the technical capacities of the coordinator of the Technical Commission of COVID-19, Jonan Fernández? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u34	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, Jonan Ferández coordinates the Technical Commission. I assure you that you have the necessary capacity to coordinate these tasks and channel the committee's deliberations into the most appropriate decision-making. He has the experience of participating from March 13 to today in all the daily follow-up meetings held for the management of the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u37	Mr Lehendakari, the dilated past of Jonan Fernández is not the best to offer certainty to a society that is suffering in its own flesh a second wave of the COVID-19, which is generating desolation and poverty. But, as Mr Lehendakari said just two days ago, young people have the right to know and to participate and to contribute their vision in the construction of memory. Well, well, it's my intention to transfer some memory to young and old. Jonan Fernández's career begins in Toulouse, was councillor of Herri Batasuna and spokesperson of Lurraldea. I would like to recall that the technical coordinator against COVID-19 was the spokesperson for that platform and did ETA's public work to bend the institutions that wanted to build the Leizaran motorway. On the occasion of the campaign against the motorway of Leizarán ETA killed José Edmundo Casañ Pérez Serrano, director of the company Ferrovial, a company related to the construction of the motorway of Leizarán in Valencia. On Monday, March 4, 1996, Ramón Doral Trabaledo was killed by a bomb that had been placed under his car. Also, two National Police Corps firefighters: Andrés Muñoz Pérez and official Valentín Martín Sánchez. The anti-motorway campaign led by the coordinator Lurraldea and led by the current technical coordinator for the COVID-19 struggle, Jonan Fernández, resulted in a total of 160 attacks, covering the lives of four people and causing injuries to many others, as well as large economic losses valued at more than a billion of the old pesetas. Moreover, with the invaluable help of ETA, Jonan Fernández managed to change the route of this motorway, which finally passed through where he wanted to go, and therefore has one of the most dangerous slopes in Europe. He later founded Elkarri, the sponsoring entity of the great Basque conflict, which was an eternal and infinite confrontation between two equally repudiable extremes: ETA and the Spanish State. By the way, this evolutionary leap was irrigated by public aid in excess of EUR 6 million. They were also allowed, to finance themselves, to enter the lottery world, always betting on the spurt. From there he passed to the sanctuary of Aranzazu, where, overflowing with official aid, he set in motion Baketik, where he dedicated himself to seeking consensus on justice. In April 2017 he was appointed Secretary General of Human Rights and Co-existence, whose main objective was to whitewash ETA's criminal history, mixing the origin of violence and the status of victims and executioners. He currently holds the post of Secretary of Social Transition and Agenda 2030. What can this man say to Koldo Cambra, in charge of the health program of the Public Health Directorate, Enrique Peiró, coordinator of the public health program of Osakidetza, Esteban de Manuel, director of Kronikgune, Joseba Bidaurrazaga, deputy director of Public Health in Bizkaia, or Iñaki Gutiérrez Ibarluzea, of the Basque Health Innovation Foundation? What will Jonan Fernández bring to this technical committee, which is responsible for preparing every 15 days the diagnoses and proposals on the fight against the pandemic? A gentleman who puts an activist in his lanbidea (professional) section. Surely, the political leadership based on manipulation, in what he is indeed an expert. It's a total nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u38	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, the LABI technical committee plays a key role in the response to the pandemic. This Monday I had the opportunity to participate again in one of your working sessions. The commission is made up of the people you mentioned and others. People specialized in public health, prevention, microbiology and epidemiology. In addition to the people you mentioned, the directors of the Kronikgune and Bioef health research centres also participate; the director of Osakidetza, the vice-counselor of health, as well as two officials of the legal regime, participate in the commission. The analysis and the proposed measures are the responsibility of the professional experts. Lehendakaritza is responsible for coordination, monitoring, evaluation and monitoring. I have already explained to you what the role of Jonan Fernández is, which is nothing more than to coordinate that technical committee. The coronavirus occupies, Mrs. Martinez, all our attention. In addition to the biographies that each of us wants you to look for in a biased way, Mrs Martínez, who have a public responsibility, we have had to immerse ourselves in a technical and scientific universe that until nine months ago was unknown to us. This pandemic is a new reality for me, for you, I suppose, too, and I suppose for the majority of those in this Parliament. At the moment, the entire structure of the Basque Government is focused on providing the best and best possible response to the pandemic. This is also Lehendakaritza's priority. The Secretariat for Foreign Action, for example, checks and monitors, through reports, the assessment of the situation at the international level and the measures being taken by other countries. The Secretariat of the Presidency monitors the impact of the pandemic and coordinates the Berpiztu programme for economic recovery and employment. The Science, Technology and Innovation Commissioner is developing the new plan on the 2030 horizon, which is one of her priorities with personalized health. The Secretariat for Social Transition and Agenda 2030 updates the Bizi Berri plan and carries out the coordination tasks between the Technical Commission and the LABI Advisory Council. Our obligation is to analyse the situation and make the most appropriate decisions. We are doing this by professionals, professionals with expertise, technicians and scientists. My commitment is that all the people of the Government will do their best, with the best will to help get out of this delicate and difficult situation. And so they are doing, offering their capacity and offering their experience, working in teams and adding as many contributions as possible. And I assure you that in this fight against coronavirus all energies and capabilities are necessary and useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "The question is, that Carmulus Barrius Barroja, the popular Group of the Ciudads, the members of the United States have been made to the president of the United States, and that the inhabitants of the petty townships have made certain activities and movable habits which are to be made for tramites." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u41	Thank you very much, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Yes, lehendakari, this is a new reality for all, but, above all, for the inhabitants of the smallest municipalities of our land. There are frequent social, economic and community relations between neighbours of small municipalities and other neighbours of the zone of influence to obtain goods or services daily; even, these relations also occur with municipalities of other neighbouring autonomous communities. Difficulties and very complicated situations are occurring due to the application of the mobility restrictions of COVID-19, mainly in Álava. We, lehendakari, raise a concern of the people living in these small villages, in these small municipalities of our country, and therefore, more than a question this could be a request or a suggestion to the person who directs or presides the LABI, the Civil Protection Plan, in relation to the COVID-19, which analyzes the needs and actions for the development of life in the most normal way possible, within this exceptionality, and their mobility is greater and better, those of those inhabitants of the small municipalities. Small municipalities in La Rioja Alavesa, Añana, near Logroño, Haro or Miranda could have access to these localities to carry out their usual efforts, their personal, economic, health and administrative supply needs in a much better way. Now you can't, as you well know. That is why we ask you whether the LABI has considered the possibility of allowing greater and better mobility of the inhabitants of the municipalities with smaller population to other neighbours closer, larger and with greater services. And, I say again, fundamentally, those who belong to other neighbouring autonomous communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u42	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, this possibility you pose is envisaged: people living in municipalities with a smaller population can move to another municipality, even from another autonomous community. Decree 36/2020, in article 2.3, provides for the limitation of the entry and exit of persons from each term of the municipality in which they have their residence. However, it collects the exceptions provided for and allows mobility between neighbouring municipalities of usual transit for the carrying out of socio-economic activities, including sports or individual activities or of physical activity outdoors; this possibility is therefore envisaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u45	Mr Lehendakari, thank you for your reply. There are some possibilities, but not the usual, that is, the usual, what has been the normality, the normal access of people in relation to their needs, I say again, many questions that have to do with the supply, with the food, with the pharmacy, with the cashiers, with certain specific unscheduled sanitary situations; that is, in what is usual in people of Labastida in relation to Haro, people of Moreda in relation to Logroño or people of Zambrana in relation to Miranda. It is that we have been told that impossibility; that is, if you tell me that and there is a different circumstance, it is that something is failing, something is failing or something is not well coordinated in relation to what the accesses in the police function have to be, the control function with other autonomous communities, but that, lehendakari, is failing. We understand that the negotiation, the issues, the criteria that come in the orders or in the decrees of actions, of rules in relation to this issue must be much clearer. It is clear that there is a concern, it is transmitted to us every day by citizens and citizens of all these small municipalities. I hope, please, that there will be a reflection, because there is a lack of information.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u46	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, lack of information, no. Let us see whether my second intervention in connection with your question helps to make a better interpretation for all the citizens who are in that situation, whether they are from Álava or from Bizkaia. Also in Bizkaia we have situations that occur in relation to enclaves of other autonomous communities. Look, the general rule is the limitation of entry and exit in each municipal term or municipal term, and this is the best guarantee to prevent community transmission of the virus. And, to this end, ordinary movements for the purchase of food or other necessary products must be carried out in commercial establishments located in the municipal term of residence or in adjacent municipalities. This general rule provides for exceptions: travel to a commercial centre or establishment which is as close as possible to the municipality of residence for services and supplies which are not provided in the locality of residence or adjacent, always on an exceptional basis. If the locality closest to this service or supply is in another autonomous community, it could also be carried out, always in accordance with the exceptions provided for, and these exceptions are set out in Royal Decree 926/2020, declaring the state of alarm, and also in the decree I signed as lehendakari. Persons living in small localities may move to another municipality offering such services or supplies, even from another autonomous community, provided that this locality is not confined. This displacement is possible if it responds to any of the following: emergency health or veterinary reasons; work, professional, business, institutional or legal obligations; return to the habitual place of residence; care and care for older, younger, dependent, disabled or particularly vulnerable persons; refuelling or causing force majeure or situation of need. And this displacement fits with the exception called a situation of necessity. It is intended and can be done on an exceptional basis and always – I insist – that the location of the other community is not confined. In any case, the aim of the rule is to restrict mobility in order to prevent the Community transmission of the virus; therefore, I appeal to what may be the correct interpretation of the decree I signed as lehendakari, which I explained at this session, and I appeal, in any case, to all of us to act responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "The question is, you know, that together with the members of the Podemos-IU members of the board were made to be president of the first vice president and security department, advertising the game." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u49	Thank you. Mr. Erkora, I asked you a few weeks ago about the game, and I asked you again today because this subject is a theme that worries us a lot lately. The data on the increase in gambling activity in recent years are worrying. According to data from the Basque Observatory of the Game, 63% of Basques had their first contact with the game between 18 and 34 years, and more worrying still, 20%, before 18. The opening up of online channels and the spectacular increase in advertising are two elements that help to understand this phenomenon. Since 2015 the investment in advertising of the players of the game has tripled: from 130 million euros per year in 2015 to 365 million in 2020. And this, we think, has a direct relation to the increase of young players, on the one hand, and also to the rise of face-to-face gambling and the proliferation of gambling houses. According to data from the Government of Spain, the young player segment between 18 and 25 years old in 2016 represented 29% of the total players; in 2019 it represents 40%. We have a serious problem with this subject. The Government of Spain has the powers to regulate online gambling and also advertising, except static, and a real decree of commercial communications of the game has just been adopted where advertising is regulated and limited. Sponsorship activities in t-shirts, team names, etc. are prohibited; the appearance in advertisements of relevant people who may have influence on young people is prohibited, and advertisements in the media are prohibited, except in the range of one to five in the morning, but it is the responsibility of the Basque Government to regulate face-to-face gambling and advertising – let's call it, to sum up – static. I therefore ask you, Mr Erkoreka, what measures the Basque Government is taking to alleviate the increase in gambling in minors and youth in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u50	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, indeed, as you rightly point out, a few days ago the Central Government adopted Royal Decree 958/2020 of 3 November on commercial communications of gambling activities. The Basque Government has collaborated, contributed to the development of this standard through the contributions and allegations it made during the drafting process. He made two types of allegations: some of them were in competition, others relating to content in general, putting forward more restrictive measures, and although some were taken into consideration, the fact is that we have not been given too much attention by the central government either. This does not mean that the rule is superfluous or ill-conceived; otherwise, the rule is necessary and even urgent. It was raised, as sure as you know, since 2015, and it has been different avatars of the central government that have prevented the adoption in time and form of the norm, right? And it is necessary and even urgent, as I said, above all, because it comes to answer the specific problem posed by the online game. As far as the Basque Government is concerned, the Department of Safety and Security is entrusted with the task of promoting the collective social responsibility of companies operating in this sector and also with the task of carrying out awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns for responsible and guaranteed gambling. In fact, all the planning of the game that has taken place in recent years is articulated around this idea, the idea of protecting, above all, vulnerable groups, which are found in minors, adolescents and people with different abilities. This has been so for almost a decade now, but it is so with special intensity since 2016, in which the General Rules of the game were approved here in Euskadi, which devotes nothing less than an entire chapter, the tenth, to the regulation of this matter, advertising in the field of the game; therefore, this is not a new question, this one that points to the actual decree, isn't it? Obviously, the work of the Department of Safety and Security is not limited to carrying out preventive and awareness-raising work, it also operates through the inspection services of the Gambling and Entertainment Directorate through direct actions of the inspection. And I will give you a data that illustrates, I believe, the activity that is taking place in this field: in 2019, which is the last full year of which we have reference, 3,650 inspections were carried out by the Department of Play and Shows and their inspection services, and nine sanctioning files were opened for juvenile gambling and four files were opened for access to the premises of prohibited persons. The work is therefore carried out in the field of prevention, awareness-raising, and also in the operational field, on the ground, through inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u52	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u53	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Well, the data you have given, many of us also know them through the reports of the Basque Observatory of the Game, an observatory that had it in my prepared replica, but which I repeat we greatly value. But it is also true that in the implementation of the 2020 budget we find that the non-responsible gambling prevention programme and the ludopathy prevention programme had a budget of 230,000 euros, and the implementation to date is 599 euros. So, I think the effort has to be bigger there. We think we need to go further, and we will re-submit by our parliamentary group in the coming days the proposed law to reform the Euskadi Game Act. And we hope that on the part of the Basque Government there will be a willingness to move forward in this field and in this area, and our main proposals – and we think it would be interesting for the Basque Government to do so – would be to establish, as is also being done in other autonomous communities, the minimum distance from 500-metre betting houses to educational and youth centres, among others, access control not only in bingo and casinos but also in betting machines – which can also do so because they have an online connection for the user to be identified in the system – the total prohibition of advertising in public centres, cultural centres, cinemas, sports stadiums, transport facilities, where the rule now makes special reference to minors, but we believe that it is also necessary to prohibit and expand, and also to match the maximum regulation that we can make in Basque from advertising to the maximums of the real state decree. We hope from our group that the will should be in favour of the Government to limit the activity and publicity of the game, and at least to limit the serious problem we really have, from the public powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u54	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, you talk to me about will. Don't hesitate: I'm sure it's clear. It'll be transparent. It won't be a doubt. I'll be the one before that commitment. You're telling me you're planning again to present the legal proposal you introduced during the last law. I would ask you first to wait for the change of the Rule which I had foretold. This plan will be shared. I intend to speak to all the parliamentary groups, to see what it is to be in the law, and what is better to be received from a legal point of view, to be received in a rule, to look at the suppleness of the spring, and to look at the lightness required by this rule or by the reality. Previsions which occur in a law are often too narrow, and the law is obliged to change. And the reality before us is mobile, variable, and we can answer this point in a more efficient manner by planning and regulating. I would therefore ask you to wait till we place the rule on the table, for it will be shared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u56	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, a member of the House of Representative Presidents and Security, about the security measures of the Eukadin and the co-ordination of their colleagues." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen. In Euskadi, as you know, they provide their services to various State security forces and bodies, including the Autonomous Police, the Ertzaintza, and local police. Already at the appearance of the other day, of the first Vice-President and Security Adviser, before the relevant committee, that of Governance, this parliamentarian already insisted on the need to increase the mechanisms of cooperation and collaboration with the various security forces and bodies that exercise their powers also in Basquedi, particularly the National Police and the Civil Guard. On the other hand, in recent weeks we have already seen how the declaration of the state of alarm, the adoption of the corresponding autonomous decrees to implement these measures in Euskadi, add a plus to the need for collaboration with the various security forces and bodies that provide their services also in the neighbouring communities. For all that I have said, Mr Vice-President-first and Security Adviser, I ask you the following question: what coordination measures does your department intend to develop with all the security forces and bodies that provide their services in the Basque Community, especially with regard to the National Police and the Civil Guard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u58	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Erkoreka jauna.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Gordillo, I suppose you will be aware that your question, as it is put in writing, is at least impossible to answer in the form of an oral question in full, is it not? at least with a minimum of rigour. I will try, however, to make an approach as synthetic as possible. In Euskadi, police coordination, which I want to insist on, I already did in my first appearance, is one of the great postulates of the European area of freedom, justice and security, develops in different terms and in different frameworks, depending on whether it occurs within the Basque Police, i.e. between the Ertzaintza and the 80 local police forces formed at the municipal level, or takes place with the state security forces and bodies. Go ahead with my commitment and my unequivocal will to maintain and, if necessary, intensify all the police coordination mechanisms that have been working effectively in recent times. To see, in these two areas, logically, as I say, the frameworks and terms of police cooperation and coordination are produced in different terms, right? In the first area, in the internal sphere of what is called the Police of the Basque Country, coordination takes place within the conditions laid down by the laws adopted by this Parliament, and is articulated through different instruments: local and regional police coordination commissions, through the framework agreements of police cooperation, which have already signed 58 municipal police bodies, through the joint use of communication networks such as Tetra, weekly operational coordination meetings in each demarcation of the Ertzaintza, etc., etc. The second area of cooperation, by statutory mandate, must take place within the framework of the Security Board, which, already at its meeting on 17 June 2017, created – to operate at a more effective level – different levels and different types of technical commissions that would make such coordination effective. There is a Technical Commission for Operational Coordination and there are three technical subcommittees to operate tactically in three areas: criminal investigation and judicial police, in the field of information and in the field of citizen protection. The year 2020, taking into account the unique features of the pandemic and the state of alarm, has also created a special forum, a much more agile forum to respond to the everyday and dynamic generated by the pandemic, and to the social emergencies it required. Several more informal, bilateral meetings have been held, convened jointly by the Government Delegation and the Deputy Security Adviser, so that up to nine meetings of this informal, effective and rapid forum took place between March and June. Now, with the new alarm, he met on 5 November last to discuss, among other issues, issues related to enclaves, ports, and airports. It is therefore working, and my will is to maintain this coordination mechanism at all levels.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u60	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Erkoreka, for the explanations. Man, if you want, later I ask you a question and we can already argue with a little more..., you say you need more time, but, well, the same is that the question was wrong, in your opinion. But, anyway, I don't know, it's what you usually say when you, maybe, don't really like the question. I say this because before, in the intervention of my colleague Carmelo Barrio, he has put on the table the problem that is emerging, that is normal, that is of everyday life. When the right to freedom of movement is affected, and the people who perhaps live in a neighbouring community, work in Euskadi, in the afternoon they have to go to a family member or they have to do business in some other neighbouring town, for this implies the need to have what is now called certificates, except for labour conduct, in order to be able to circulate, etc., etc. And this type of measure requires a series of steps and, above all, requires a series of administrative coordination measures that are very necessary. Man, your party has traditionally been relatively reluctant to some collaboration with the National Police and the Civil Guard, at least in front of the gallery. Then, the truth is that reality has always passed over, but there is some town hall in some city, where you and I live, for example, where, man, there is some reluctance to integrate the National Police and the Civil Guard, for example, into the Security Board. What I am simply saying to you, Mr Erkoreka – and I repeat that I thank you for your explanation and I welcome what you are saying – is that it is more necessary than ever that there be collaboration, not only between administrations in general but with the security forces in particular. Because, for example, the document that has been approved by your department, those criteria of application of the Ertzaintza and local police on health alarm, which is a little the manual of use and the answer to the frequent questions that citizens may have, I also wonder if that has been coordinated with other police and other competences in the other communities also bordering, because the truth is that in this situation the administrations in general are sending a very negative message to the citizens that this seems like a jungle many times. That is why I think it is very necessary to send a reassuring message, but above all to send a message in the interest of increasing that legal certainty and increasing those coordination measures for the well-being of the citizens, because in this they will not forgive any of us, neither you nor us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u62	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mr. Erkorek, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u63	[[Blank writing]] Police coordination with some or other bodies. I can assure you that I, as the security officer of this Government, am firmly committed to carrying out all the mechanisms and to maintaining – as I have told you – all the coordination mechanisms that have been proven effective in ensuring public security and in providing citizens with the most effective and effective service possible in the area of security. The issue of coordination, I have already told you, is a starting point in the principle of the European area of security, justice and freedom, and I am absolutely convinced that the police forces – each from the competences that they have legally assigned – are called to integrate and act in a coordinated way in different terms, as I have said, according to the Police of the Basque Country itself or to relations with the state's security forces and bodies, because that is what it puts in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u64	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Inherit point in theme list: "Interrelation, made by Erasitz de Egililaz, members of the Rammos EH Union, of the second vice-prefect, and of the chief physician of the United States, in order to overcome the duties of the younger." Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u65	Congressman, good day. They say that Pandemies and their consequences are concerned about public affairs, and that it is time to speak of pandemy and its possible consequences every day. But I want to discuss today with a disease which was beginning to turn chronic even before her patron: I wish to treat of the work and the preparation of life which we young people have in systematic fashion, of the preparation which the young men of Aban, Biscay, and Gipu are suffering in our daily life. Yes, chief physician, because it's something that we're living every day. Belaunaldi bat soilik ez, herri bear bat mortgagekatzeko arriskuan aurkitzen gara oraintxe bertan. Belaunaldi galdu beat man da gurea, aukerarik gabe generated dena. Baina aukerak ez dira besterik gabe galtzen, hemen, normalan aukerak lapurtu egiten diskigutelako. Because we are about to mortgage not only a generation, but also the future of our people. Ours seems to be the lost generation, which has run out of opportunities, but we know perfectly well that opportunities are not lost without more, that opportunities are usually stolen from us. You have made us accustom and adapt ourselves to bad situations, to imagine a future without hope, almost forbid the present. But do not deceive us young men: the Prefect is not like a meteorological phenomenon, it does not appear and vanishes, and this is not a chance. We're still under the consequences of the most beautiful years. Capital or life? Those who support this government have chosen capital over and over again, and it is impossible to understand that the AHT is not to be stopped, or that the funds of Europe should be pursued by our researchers; Instead of investing in investigators, the Petronor will take over 400 million euros, or the Iberdrolla 270 million. It's about privacy, isn't it? The Prefect takes the body in his youth. Our daily uncertainty has become more than ever in the past few months. But the instability we live in isn't caused by panic, and you'll have to admit, for once, that we're in the face of a commercial problem. We know it will not be easy, and we never doubted, but the crisis and its consequences depend on who will pay for it. "Y feelos que, de alalacias la precerad, que se enimende que sera van de la mano, como si no hubies niternativa." Pero, consejera, saben believen tambien que hay aternativas y esis altivivas passa por poner la vida de las personas jóvenes en eltro del empleo. It is not enough for the support of the Government; we young men require a strong choice to make a decent employment. You must understand, in some measure, that the decisions which are formed in your departments have an enormous amount of perfection over our lives. And therefore we shall repeat, that we demand worthy employment for all the people, and that, unless this attempt do not make a strong choice for it, we shall continue to demand it, and make use of all space. To-day, more than ever, because we need strong answers, it is to give you certainty in front of this chaos. Porque las jóvenes necesamos certidumbres ya sin medias inks, además. We know that the day will explain tomorrow, but we need to know if it will be work for young people or for future people. And in this way we want to know, because we need to know, what are the intentions of this government to overcome this state, and what you have answered for the young men. If we concentrate on data, simply to say, data is pathetic, it's scary. The unemployment of the young people is 4% of 68 days, from ten young people in four unemployment, that is to say, in my gang, 15, they're six out of work. For you, maybe, it's just a little bit more data, but for me, it's a chronicle of a reality that's being perpetuated. It's the daily experiences that make us nervous every day. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not just data, it's experiences and lives, and it's the lives, too, of my friends. And I'm going to tell you, because it seems that between these four walls some and some do not want to talk about the real, about what people live in their own flesh. I'm talking about those young men you have condemned to preach, I'm talking about some stories around me. For example, the first, who have succeeded in forming a master, and who have seen themselves obliged to another, and yet has not been hired. The second is that after a lot of practical hours of exchange, they get a contract of practice, but they know that when that's over, they'll be replaced by another young man. And this is a practice counter-contradiction based on exploitation. And this can't be financed with public money, because we have illegal rights, too, young people. Third, how to forget those who work under wretched conditions and no contract, or rather were working. And the same thing, giving privates, or writing schools, without contract, and now even without ERTA, and now not even a penny. Or all those people who, without papers or rights, have remained on the street, without anything, without hope. And no one sees them, and it seems that, here, what you don't see doesn't exist. These people have nothing, no ERTE, no work, no home, no food. Policies that do not put people's lives at the centre are exclusive policies, and they do not serve us. And the fourth, this time we've lived hard, imagine what it's like to be a nurse and a young man right now. There are a lot of young nurses around me and I can say that they're having a terrible daily fight, no doubt. Under miserable conditions against a virus, without any stability, with almost every month and an enormous collapse of contract. Reality is overwhelming, isn't it? Well, imagine living it, what it has to be. And for that reason, I assure you, at some other time, we want to ask again what we have asked, because we need to know whether you will continue to finance the President with money, or whether, at any rate, you will succeed in making a worthy employment system. On our way to that, we have a chance on Monday to cut off that 5% cut by the worthy salary of our investigators, and we extend our hand to the agreements and get an agreement, because we know that if we don't take steps in this way, we'll go back to researchers in some way. And to finish, this pandemy has shown us a lot of things in some way. And he has shown us that it is necessary to invest in education, to invest in public transports, in health, in condition of dignity to the condition of young men. And therefore I would like to bring here one of the most significant signs I have seen in this pandemy, but I don't think it important to show you alone, as well as the rest of the people of the country, because I believe that the accounts which the citizens place in our town streets are to be brought about by the people who paint on our walls, must be heard among these four walls, must be told and considered in the future. [[Show a paper]] And the sign says: "Much polycía, poca inverseio." Y sabemos cómo sigue la canción: "un error, un error, otro granddísimo error, un inmenso error." And the people are doing us a relationship that's giving us another mistake in this government. Good intentions and intentions do not feed, and there are no martyrs, the chief physician; they need answers and alternatives, and we need answers and alternatives. Because instead of deciding for the citizen, it can also be decided with the people, and, in some ways, it must be decided for us. And because we want to dig deep in it, so do we: always in words and even in action for the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. It's my turn. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u67	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. You're right. Yeah, it's just that the young people are asking me to take steps from the funniest thing they've ever worked for. That's why the first axis of the government program is job. First engagement is quality, and in economic recovery young people are the main object. I am sure, therefore, that we shall readily agree in this legislation, because I see that it is essential to you that you should have a decent employment as a privilege to offer new opportunities, and to those who have the greatest difficulty in finding work; Over 45, women and young people. And if you do, you're satisfied with my priorities. Because I remind you of what our guide is: to ensure the health of all people, to reactivate the economy and employment, and to leave no one behind. And leaving no one behind is no one: neither the young people, for whom you are asking me today, nor any other collective with special difficulties. And I told you on the day of my appearance, and I want to repeat it here today: this government has an alternative to youth unemployment, to the precariousness that affects them and to the specific problems that young people face in order to have an independent and dignified life. But I added: it is a mistake to confront the training needs of young people with the needs of those over 45. The Department of Labour and Employment thinks of everyone. And one important thing: young people can have a great training, but they also need to profile that training well in order to adapt it to the needs of companies today. But let me also make an approximate diagnosis of where we are and where we want to get to, today's photograph, which offers us the latest consolidated data we have, which are those referring to the month of October. What I think you already know in this Parliament is that my department is going to move in terms of realism. Neither triumphalism nor catastrophe either. Only realism, because sometimes a photograph can distort reality. Last October he offered us some data that, in comparison to the same month of other years, we could call them good. They would be, in general, with the largest drop in unemployment in two decades. But it would be particularly so among young people, particularly those under 24 years of age, among whom unemployment has fallen by 55% over the past year. But with that principle of realism that I was telling you, despite all this, I say to you: we have a serious problem, as you pointed out. We have 26,000 young people looking for jobs and not finding them. As we have more than 66,000 over 45 years of age in the same situation. The former, in many cases, have not even had a first chance to get a job. And the second, for the most part, has been too long in unemployment and they don't find a job to remain active with. Because I want to add another data to complete the picture: the long-term unemployment has increased by 27% in the last year, and it is already 51% of the unemployed, more than 71,000 people, who are still waiting for a job. But we also know that the people most affected by the labour market have been those who are in a most vulnerable situation, those who are constantly entering and leaving jobs. For this reason, in September the short-term unemployment increased significantly, the previous month, and in October it has fallen considerably. And that's where we find, to a large extent, young people. I wanted to give you this full description of the labour market so that we can understand a situation that is extraordinarily complex, a situation in which this department, I told you, is not going to leave anyone behind. Neither are the young people, who are the specific group for which you are asking today. And our Government is also concerned, because they project us into the future, the employment we want in the society we want to be, in progress and cohesive. That's why our intentions are clear. Our first axis of action, our priority is employment. Our first commitment was to adopt a framework programme for economic and employment recovery, and we approved it within two weeks of starting to walk. It is the Berpiztu strategy, a strategy that we have shared and enriched with the contributions received by the social and economic agents, because the first thing I did – you will also remember – as soon as I arrived at the department was to call them all without distinction, and everyone has transferred to me proposals on which the department is already working. But I was just talking to him about the first of the government's actions. And I continue with the second of the commitments: to adopt an employment plan aligned with this framework programme. And I continue to go down to reality: initiative 4 of the entire program, youth employment shock plan. For what? To facilitate an initial work experience for 20,000 young people. This plan will focus on dual training for youth employment, the transition from education to work, training grants and professional experience with commitment to recruitment, specific programmes for youth inclusion and employment, entrepreneurship development, self-employment, local and regional employment plans, public job offers and programmes to reduce job insecurity, especially in the youth community. It is not a declaration of intent because it is specifically valued, 162 million euros of investment for this legislature. And I'm still making progress on the government program. Commitment 92, Youth Emancipation Strategy. It is an interdepartmental strategy led by the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, but we, as the Department of Labour and Employment, have specific action to ensure this emancipation process. And I will also remind you of one question: ten years ago the Basque Government brought to this rostrum an innovative, strategic and comprehensive law for young people. And then, this that you put to me was on this agenda, because access to and quality of employment is essential for young people to have access to an independent life. And this Parliament then did not consider such regulation necessary, but today it is back on our agenda and I hope that when it comes to this House we will all have the time to deal with it and adopt it. And I follow the measures on the precariousness of youth. A month ago your group me... And I follow the measures on the precariousness of youth. A month ago, your group asked me a similar question to yours, but in general speaking about employment and quality in employment. I gave them a decalogue on all the instruments that make quality employment possible, which is perfectly applicable to young people. Just eight days ago, this Parliament passed a non-law proposal on this issue. You know, therefore, that at the beginning of next year, after the completion of the procedure and the approval of the budgets, we will approve the Basque employment strategy. We are already working on that strategy and, as you will have heard from me in the previous question, we want to have all the groups, including yours; we want to receive your contributions and your ideas. Because this strategy aims to be a country guide for all institutions, for all actors involved in job creation and also for young people. But not even that will be the only way, since we not only have to address training, guidance and mediation for young people. I am fully aware that young people are particularly affected by working conditions and low wages. Questions which, as you know, go beyond the intervention of this Basque Government. That is why I have spoken to you today about how I count on your involvement so that we can agree on the employment policies that are in our hands, in the hands of the Basque Government, but I also appeal to you to get involved in those where you can influence. I am thinking, for example, of the new status of workers that all workers need. A statute for the twenty-first century, which combines the needs of companies with the protection of workers against the challenges we face with the digital, ecological and socio-health transition. I am also thinking of the importance of collective bargaining, a negotiation devalued after the last labour reform, but which, if there is will on the part of the parties, allows for sparking conflicts and involving all social actors in this task. And here their formation, not only the government, also has a lot of work to do. We can create opportunities for youth employment, but we will only get it to be of quality if we can involve all social, institutional and political actors. This is a task for the Government, but also for the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u69	We know that it is very difficult to contradict what I have said, and that you will be on the side of our reading, especially because it is reality. It's just how we're going to get through this situation, we still don't get too clear about it. It's very simple for us, we're talking about taking our chances, we're saying that young people can't wait any longer. And this generation, which has been condemned and forced to wait, is ours, because we do not know what to wait, because we see nothing we can expect, because nothing is changed, and we know not exactly what this government has to offer. You say that there is an alternative against young people's unemployment, or you say that it exists, but we want to know what it is and what changes tomorrow, because, unfortunately, we know when we get out of here, when this plune is over and out of the street, nothing will change, the reality of the people will not change. I can't gather with the 15 of my gang, but I can meet with six of them because we're responsible, and because we're so careful, and we're so careful that about four of them, and then they'll go back to their parents' houses, and they'll go on with us on Monday, and maybe they'll have to go on studying, and the other two will wait until they're done in a fine work contract without knowing what they'll be doing, and we'll go home without knowing what'll be expected of us and what'll be tomorrow. So what is said from here, well, whether it begins to fill up and whether at least we see some progress in our lives. Because you speak of sizes and such things, but we hardly know what these measures are made up of. We have heard too much of the measure taken, and have heard of it often. And you put up an alternative, but we want to know what this plan is to be based on and what this plan is. You mentioned data and data, but we don't see any changes. And, look, when I came in here, they were talking to me about a lot of shock plans, youth employment shock plans, and I was like, "But, what exactly is that going to be?" because I did not understand very well what they were based on. And now I realize, after reading Berpiztu too, what a youth employment shock plan is. And that's exactly it, a plan. A plan that says we have to make a plan. For, basically, as my plans for 2020, which have not been met, because the situation did not allow it, you say, for example, in Berpiztu, on page nine, where the commitments are explained, that we must create 25,000 work experiences, the first work experiences for youth employment, and then, on page 57, that figure increases to 30,000. And we say, "But what happened to those 5,000?". I mean, the numbers, what happens, they grow from one leaf to another? It's just that I'm saying more, it's that jobs are not being created, it's that they're being destroyed day by day. And, I don't know, I understand that we all have failures, and we all are human, but it's you who decide people's lives, it's this government, and I think we need to focus a little bit. Because we don't see any difference, and since we don't see any difference, we don't have any hope either. And over and over again you've said social operatings, social operatings, social operatings, even social operatings, are young, there are young agents that are made up of young people, and never mention and never consider. And we hope, for once, to contact some of the young people and to discuss all these plans and all these alternatives among all of us, but really, in view of our biotic experiences. For us, we can't stop on quantum indicators, we can't place higher or lower numbers just on the basis of the discussion. We must be quantum indicators, and, well, you said it yourself, chief physician. And, for example, there are many professions as if there were an alternative. Well, the conditions of work, whether planned or anticipated in the profession, are insufficient; they are pretors enough; and, well, it seems to us that there must be a step forward in the work offered for young men, and that they ought to have all those things which are really necessary for us. And therefore what we see here, and even to-day we have seen, is the eternal motto of the eternal refrain: many words and few actions. I'm going to say that it doesn't eat from the instigations anymore, because that's important to me. And don't forget that we young people really need fewer sermons and more solutions. We'll be here if you want an alternative to us, and we'll have our hand stretched out. We hope, for once, to think of all the things that we discuss in this bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u71	Thank you. I understand it, it's times of uncertainty for everyone: for citizenship, for governments, for everyone (for young people, for the elderly...). We are surrounded by uncertainty and we need to know how to navigate these waters full of uncertainty. It's the time we've had. He hasn't touched us for another time, he's touched us for this one. And on this one, we have to be able to work. And I understand the discomfort that that can generate in youth, a lot of discomfort because you don't see a clear horizon in your life or a clear horizon to find a job and emancipate power. But, fundamentally, I think we have two important ingredients to navigate in these times of uncertainty, which allow us to keep the rudder firm: one is stability. Political stability is fundamental to creating a climate of calm and tranquillity where employment opportunities can be created, which is – I believe – the goal of all of us sitting in this House. And another important ingredient is to have all the institutions aligned with a common goal, with common goals. And in that regard, I can say that in the meetings I have held with the institutions, in addition to the social partners, I have found that we share the objectives and that there is a willingness to work together. I think that is a guarantee enough to be able to succeed on this issue which you are particularly concerned about, but in general, on the subject of employment. And I want to tell you that I have a mandate from this Parliament, which was approved last week, and which was approved by the whole House, except for your group and the Mixed (Vox). And that's what's going to be my department's guide. A guide to the creation of quality employment as a priority for the Government, with the will to remain so for all economic and social actors. And you said, "And young people, where are they?". Man, I understand that young people like you militate in political parties, participate in political platforms and through them bring to governments, institutions, the demands they are feeling. But, in particular, when the Equality Adviser puts in place the specific youth plan, the youth employment plan, in which we participate other departments, will, of course, also take part in the Euskadi Youth Council. All the agents are important, and we do not want any agents to let go of the compromise, which is to seek a just way out of this crisis and not leave anyone behind. That's why we involve them, and we want to keep them all involved in the Berpiztu program. And we're also going to do it with what I was saying, which is the 2030 Employment Strategy. And in that country strategy, we want to promote the creation of decent employment, with decent wages and labour rights as a cross-cutting axis of all public policies in all Basque institutions. And all this is essential to improve the quality of youth employment. But we will also fulfil the express commitment to youth, which is the shock plan, which offers you so little guarantee but which is going to be a powerful plan to give young people employment opportunities. And there's one added thing I've announced before, and it's that I'm going to meet with all the groups. And I believe that there we have an opportunity, all the groups in the House, to make contributions to the employment strategy we are developing, as well as to the subsequent plans. What we do in politics on these four walls, as you said in your intervention... I believe that all of us who live here, who sit in this House, live the reality of life: we have family, we have friends, we have people known to be unemployed, over 45 years old, heads of families, single women with children in charge of them... I have young children; I know very well the difficulties young people have in finding a job. And what I want is for us to work together to implement the best public policies in favour of youth employment. And here your coalition has a lot to contribute, here and in the Congress of Deputies. We will find ourselves, if we are on the road to building better conditions of employment, that will improve the lives of all. And where we won't be, of course, it's tearing down any regime, as its fellow banker said yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The 12th point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, Elisabet González Rodríguz, together with the congresses of the Podemos-IU team for economic development, patience, and the chief department of the Environment, about spending food on big teams." Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u73	The head of the table, members of the legislature, head of Tapia, good day. Food waste is one of the bloodiest things we have on the table, and in our garbage containers. It has been dealt with in this Parliament over the years, but it seems that we have not made any special progress and today hundreds and hundreds of kilos of food in good condition are still being thrown away. Even in this Parliament a number of proposals have been approved; an era to draft the Basque law in 2016, the Basque law to avoid food waste, and in 2017 to evaluate the measures taken by the Government to reduce such waste. In the moments we are living, after the images of the first wave of the pandemic, of people queueing in the social dining rooms or queueing to pick up a bag with food, we are already in the second wave. We see that, every time, the situation gets worse. We see that there are many boys and girls who have not covered their right to adequate food in quality and quantity, when we are constantly called upon to take personal responsibility. But society demands political responsibility. It calls upon them, as the Government they are, to exercise that responsibility. And we find it tremendously unfair and irresponsible to continue to throw out prepared and paid food with public money and not to take concrete and effective measures to prevent it. The data provided by Elika said that there is a large percentage, a third of what is wasted, which comes from hospitality, catering and catering. When we told his Government that what was going on, that we didn't understand what was going on, they told us that they had no competence. We have a 2016 response in which they said they do not have competence in most stages of the food chain (in production, in final consumption at home and in restoration, in food management, handling and storage). We do not understand this, because most catering companies work in public collective catering are bids made from the public, from the Basque Government. Is it consistent, in addition to being fair, that from the Government they demand others, for example, campaigns against food waste, but they do not apply to themselves the obligation to reduce it? And it is that the amount of food that ends up in the garbage, especially in this sector, is hardly excusable. That is why we ask you, Counsellor, what concrete and practical measures are being implemented today so that collective restoration can reduce food waste and food can reach vulnerable groups and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. I'm happy. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u75	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all of you. Mrs. González, before we begin our answer and examine our policy and strategy, I must say that this chief physician does not really belong to the public or to the private department, which is known as "restacitiva," and still less to the eating-rooms of the schools. But we keep such a close relationship with all of them, because, as you say, the amount of food and what is to be thrown must be handled in some way and it must be done well. And we talk about food and we talk about efficient management of it, about the resources we have, and we have to talk about food that has to cover a number of sanitary-hygienic requirements that we have to take special care of. Since the beginning of 2018, from Elika we have begun to work on the Basque strategy against food waste with a double objective: to halve the food waste per inhabitant in retail and domestic consumption and, on the other hand, to reduce the loss of food throughout the production and distribution chain, according to the SDGs and, well, with the Circular Economy Strategy. A series of actions were established as a result of the presentation of the Euskadi platform with 60 agents against food waste, and where we have different agents, both public and private, in the food chain and, in addition, social organizations. Six lines of action are addressed, as you certainly know, and as a result, even though we do not have a very accurate diagnosis – although we are doing it, but it has not been completed – we do observe that most of the waste is produced in households, more than 50%, and in the restoration, not in the collective part, as you said, but in the restoration, it reaches 12%. We therefore need to carry out awareness-raising campaigns, but beyond that we have an orientation guide that allows the donation of food surpluses from the collective restoration, in general, to establishments authorized by the competent authorities in the conditions of hygiene and compliance with the competent legislation (food law and health law). We must encourage the donation, but surely, of these food surpluses, working, in addition, with the donor agencies. It is a guide that is agreed and worked with Public Health, with the Basque Government and different municipalities of large municipalities, in particular, with the capitals initially, and that is already being made known to the different agents involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u77	The truth is that you are right, that this question could also be addressed to Mrs Sagardui, to Javier Hurtado, of Commerce and Tourism, to Beatriz Artolazabal... Actually, it's a question for all departments. I believe that this is an issue on which we have to work interdepartmentally, because society does not understand that food is still being thrown away by the skills of one department or another today. It is true that in Euskadi we throw an average of 160 kilos a year. That, in environmental terms, in terms of its department, is 304 million tonnes of CO2, 6% of EU greenhouse gas emissions from Euskadi. Then something will have to do with it. We have to change the order. That health order – I know it's not your department, but the other one – that order needs to be changed because you can't have hungry boys and girls and you can't reuse the food you throw away.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Your time is up. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u79	Well, González andrea, aipatzeko Bakarrik lan horretan ari garela, eta, horregatik, pandemia honen lehen olatu honetan Social Services, Public Health and Hazi Fundazioa, of the department, we have worked on an initiative called Jakioro, a solidarity dish of farmhouse, trying to use all the surpluses that existed at that time, and 250,000 menus have been made available to the most needy people, based mostly on perishable foods and that allows us to test everything that appears in that guide. And throughout this second wave, in addition, what is being observed is that this guide is proving effective and that in educational centers in Euskadi and other food is being used, and waste is minimal right now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Intervement, of the Myria Kortja in Ibañez EH collecters to the head of the Treasury and Ogas Department, to face here and the investments to be done now." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Subaz, good morning. It's time for us to live like a country where we didn't live emotional disorders by a crisis the size of the coronavirus has caused. And this impatience has many effects in all the districts of society. As Daniel Inneraryty says in his last book, where the uncertainty has touched all the bounds of our life, it is important to send strong answers from the institutions. They are looking at us, and it is time, as far as possible, to give answers. That's the task of public politics. From this point of view it seemed important to us, beyond the public declarations, to examine the reflection of the measurements she had taken in advance of the pandemy, which give her the size of the presuputary effort to resist the situation in which you are living, and of the strength of the reply she is sending in a certain degree. We are conscious that COVID-19 has changed or ought to change its priority. Anyone would think that in such a crisis as we are suffering the public investment and expense would increase visibly in areas that are essential to society, don't they? In health, education, and people's care and security, mainly. But that's not what we see looking at the executions of the funk, at least. It has changed, for instance, the relative weight of the budgets in the health and educational budgets in the EA budget. According to the preceding execution, with absolute numbers, the Medical Department spent 2,792 million until September 30th. Last year, however, he spent 2931 million in the same time, and 142 million less on obligations made. Membership is spending more money on the health department, but it's only to find out what's going to happen when we get to the predetermined to-dos, because the covida has caused some new expenditures in the Osade. The new beds, the PCR, when the contraction is due, but it's the same if we go to the upgrade of the member's budget that was already weakened, it's the same thing. The state of education is not much better; it is probable that in this respect there will be some new expenses to be consumed by the covida, but it is evident that this money is being removed from other places. For instance, a part of the covida bill will be paid by investigators, as the chief physician has confessed to write, because they have not applied to the pay rate expected in the budget. Though we may imagine the contrary, the pandemine has not produced any extraordinary presupure effort in this area. Last year, the Board of Education spent over the 30th September, 74% of budgets, and 60 million more this year, but the budget was the same percentage. And it's like a rating to face the coronabirus when President Urkullu announced his special Cevid program. As for the Covid program, Mr. Subzu, the aid of the autonomists, the cooperation, the aid of the rentals. Three million were announced, of which might spread between 500 million, the self-paid amount is 150 million, but between September 30th it's 75 that's done. There are still 172,7 million fates without light, and part of the self-collected expense, we know that it's not going to work because it's done. And in order to give an example, as far as the company of the considerations of treatment is concerned, this program is over, it has cost very little, and that can't be spent. It doesn't sound like fun that has put all the resources she's got in her possession in front of this crisis that's almost unprecedented. Some facts are false, you told us it's a fake news, you and Mr. Subaz. And it could be fake, but they're yours. [[He showed me some papers.]] This is the data. It's your data. We have worked with the budget implementation data on the public financial information page of the Basque Government. It is difficult to understand that it is not recognized in your own data, Mr Azpiazu. To this day, if you enter the page, any citizen can see them. As I say, the data is there, and if it's fake, it's yours. It is true that there may be more data, and it is true that such data can also be interpreted with other criteria, of course. In fact, you yourself, in that thread of tweets you made to respond to our assessment, used three different criteria: you spoke of consolidated expenditure in the case of health and Osakidetza, of the planned expenditure in December in the case of Education, and of the expenditure authorized in the case of the Covid programme, to which you added the budgetary effort made in other departments, which we are not going to question, but which do not refer to the programme. And depending on that you offer other data, Mr Azpiazu. The Basque Country is doing an analysis of the state of the preliminaries with the information that I'm talking about when I'm talking about when I have a political rating. And you, Mr. Subauzu, do the same: to answer our facts, you also perform political valuations on these notes, although you explain them to us as a kind of severity in the absence of others. You make a rating of the data you've got, so that your photo may get more decent, but I'll tell you again, we do our analysis with the official data we're doing in our control, the execution data of the past, with the objective and public data of fun. In any case, the tweets he writes to us have also given us some doubts, such as, for example, how it is possible that extra health spending to deal with the covid from Monday to Friday would have been reduced by 50%. Because Urkullu announced 340 million, which were extra millions in the afternoon, in the mouth of Councilwoman Sagardui, and yet, in her tweet, 195 million appear. We also wonder whether this Covid Fund of the Government of Spain is going to reinforce the expenditure on health or education, because the planned expenditure at the end of the year of education, according to his tweet, does not seem to receive it. And since it doesn't give us the forecast data for health spending, it makes us think that the budget can be squared with other investments. And then there's the issue of the Covid Fund. In the Covid Fund 300 million were announced, 500 were promised, 150 have been invested, but, come on, there are enough needs and there is still money. You told us two days ago that the investment could be around a billion dollars, plus a billion more that you put together. But you don't have the data, you don't have all the data, but it could be a billion, right? Well, we'll see them when the data comes, but it's true that things change a lot inside a week. I don't know, we'll check them out. In any case, we examine your data, examine our data, and the conclusion is the same for us: that you are not making the necessary investment of the situation, at least not the size of what President Urkullu gives the sense of it. The President here mentions a great number of millions, but the execution of all those millions which are mentioned is much less. In the meantime, there was a certain amount of el Deia del gasto de complemento de los ERTE. "Se previeron 40,000 realificiaries," as if in his mouth there were solo van a ser 6.000. Don't you dare, porque, además, say 6,000 peoples todavía no more, make ready! You, at the time of the greatest crisis, in an unprecedented crisis, have opted for budgetary balance. We are told that they are going to put in all the necessary resources, that we will be in debt, but we see that the adjustment of items is chosen to meet the expenses arising from the covid. And all the planning, the point of raising the owen, the flux of the bonos, etc., is merely to balance the destruction that was left to the downfall of the income. Your choice is to be a joke, and we're paying off the pelts in the basics. The solutions seem to come from so many millions today mentioned, regenerate program and the budgets of the next year. The next year's brave priorities will be suspicious, won't they? That's what you said. There's something different every year, but this year, spaghetti and courage, that's what we'll see when they come. In any case, the charges will not come until February, Mr. President Subaz. So, what are we gonna do in the meantime? Meanwhile, we've had some tough months. And now and then there's a lot of need in our country, not just to answer the needs that are here and now, but to see how we're going to project.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u83	And I'd like to ask you about it...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u84	Time is up. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u85	Mrs. President of the Parliament, Chief, Congressman of the Parliament, Mrs. Kotatja. Just 15 days ago, right here in this place, I was almost answering an interpelation of Mr. Soto about what you're talking about today. Then the question was, what kind of instruments would be used to face the crisis that we are suffering for the government from public policies. And today the question is, what's the purpose of the funk in this critical situation when the investments are concerned. We are, as may be seen, face to face with the same thing, or almost with it. And then, as I said then, I have no difficulty in renewing this subject again, and giving it all the information necessary, with great taste.... I would also like to inform you that you have read the justification for your inquiry and the statement you made here today in the presentation of it. We can even have slight coincidences in the diagnosis of the emergency situation of the economic measures to be taken and the sectors to be protected. Unfortunately, however, we have a different reading from the analysis of official data on budget implementation and on the use of all resources available to this Executive to deal with this unprecedented crisis. I don't think it's a question of getting mixed up in numbers today either. In my view, not only have the necessary resources been used, but we are also sure that we have done so in a responsible, proportionate and transparent manner, without the pandemic having twisted any of the foundations of the 2020 budget, which at the time of its adoption was already eminently social (eight out of ten euros), so that the government's priorities did not have to be changed in excess. I agree with you that the situation has required increased investment and current expenditure in sectors such as health care, education, care and protection of people and, above all, in the protection of the most affected sectors. Well, precisely in that, what the government has done – and what you now face – is to increase spending and investment in those policies. In the face of your claim that you have not made available these policies all the means that the Government has provided, I categorically deny the greatest and I affirm that only those who have not seriously followed the evolution of the economic measures put in place by this Administration in the last seven months can ensure that the resources available to the Basque Government have not been used to deal with this situation. And not only has the Government, but also the rest of the administrations of the Basque institutional arc, such as the deputies and the municipalities; which, in the use of their powers and possibilities, have shown themselves to have initiatives of their own to assist the government and other bodies in order, with greater or lesser intensity, to secure the shoulder. In the municipalities I include those managed by their political group, logically. Without spending a lot of energy on making a thorough reminder of the actions, both of an economic nature and of a normative or concerted nature, deployed by the Government or its various departments from last March until now, I do want to quote, even if in a enunciative way, those that I believe they take away for themselves according to their impact. So, first of all, I would like to highlight both the forum itself and the content of those agreements of the Joint Economic Concert Commission which, over several moments during these months, have led, precisely, to the increase of our economic capacities mainly in the field of public debt, but not only for the Basque administrations, with which to deal with the extraordinary expenses that have to be faced. I say this because it is not a matter of aesthetic or cosmetic or unfulfilled agreements, but full of political content, difficult to negotiate and which have paved the way for a year without cuts in spending and with new investment and current spending initiatives to deal with the extraordinary situation we are experiencing. That is what we have, in fact, been doing since March with policy and budgetary initiatives, while meeting the needs, but with the right rationality. In the field of health, for example, we have dedicated extraordinary resources to the supply and production of medicines, to the acquisition of health supplies, to the strengthening of health personnel, both in hospitals and in home care or in preventive care and telephone counselling. Agreements have been concluded to provide services through private health centres, including many actions, demonstrating the responsiveness of the Basque health system. In the field of education, Mrs Kortajarena, the levying of the haurreskolak quotas on families has been suspended, as well as the levying of the food and transport quotas. However, the dining grants for underprivileged students have been maintained and invested in computer equipment. As an example, during the confinement the Department of Education has yielded about 6,000 laptops, 500 tablets and 1,500 SIM cards. In view of the beginning of the course we have invested in preventive equipment and supplies for the centers in works of conditioning, with extra expenses in cleaning and disinfection. Measures have also been taken for individuals and families, increasing the financial support for social emergency aid by EUR 16 million. In the area of housing, for example, the payment of rent and community costs in the public housing stock has been exempted, and significant resources have been devoted to the rental of free housing to deal with situations of economic and social vulnerability as a result of the crisis. Economic measures have also been taken for businesses and self-employed persons, such as the implementation of the Bideratu COVID-19 programme, aid to the agricultural, food and fisheries sectors to maintain the competitiveness of fishing activity or the agrotourism sector. R+D+i projects related to the fight against coronavirus, as well as companies for the financing of health products, have been subsidized. From the Department of Finance itself we have launched a financing line through Elkargi, with 1 billion euros. And an immediate €25 million programme was also activated through the Basque Institute of Finance itself. In the field of tourism, commerce and hospitality, in addition to the aid approved in May for an amount of 15 million, which was subsequently extended to 15 others, an urgent plan for direct assistance to the hotel industry was approved this week with an additional EUR 30 million. We have reacted promptly to the demands of a sector such as hospitality, which has been greatly affected by the new health measures, measures which – I want to make clear – seek to prevent the spread of the virus and to preserve the health of people, without in any case the intention of blaming or criminalising the sector, as Lehendakari himself pointed out this morning. Y podoría seguir endurndo otro minumro de medicas adopadas en respusta a la actual crisis sanitaria y a parón de la activida economica que trado consigo. For this purpose, we have used all the resources we need and can get, and we will use them, including our ability to drown them. And, yes, I can tell you that next week we'll go back to greater debt. As you can see, it won't be because you don't put the resources on the table. For the past few months, I think I've made it clear. So, if you're looking for an argument that charges us not to invest in economic sectors that damages pandems, and not to spend them, Mrs. Kortja's, I don't agree with your statement. I disagree completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u86	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u87	Thank you, ma'am. And thank you, Mr. Subaz. I'm really glad you've seen coincidences or seen them tonight, and I'm really glad that's the essential thing in a situation like this. I did find it curious that you don't want to get mixed up in the data today. Looks like we'd better do it on Twitter. But the reason for today's initiative was to analyze the budgetary effort to measure with it also, well, Jaurlaritza honek ematen two weretzunaren beingtasuna, ze Hertzainak-en abestiak esaten zuen bezala, "Ez dira betiko garai onenak". Eta, of course, was the ezohikoa of the ego they beat aurrean gaude. I have not here doubted that it is very obvious that the covida has caused us other expenses, or that some other wants have arisen. And I didn't say whether all these initiatives or actions you mentioned have been made or have not been done. Of course they would. I don't question them. The question is whether we are not only replying to an unusual state of things with unusual answers or measures. That's the discussion today. And it's not the idea of making a fight about today, it's about getting you in and opening a discussion about it. That's it. Mr Azpiazu, you spoke of the promptness with which you have responded to the situation of the hoteliers. Jo! Promptness... I don't know, ask them. For me, this is the government of "If there is no more remedy, then I act. But in the meantime I close the hotel shop and then already, if that, if I get filled the streets, if the anger gets to some rather obvious points, if to that anger of the hoteliers is added the anger and discomfort of a large part of the population... Well, I'm already putting in a package of aids." That, moreover, curiously, can be articulated in a very easy way, against what we are told about others. Then you tell them that mobilizations are of no use in this country, and with such reactive governments there is no other way left. But it's true that you've mentioned a lot of action, a lot of initiative, but reality is that people are angry and people are scared. Behind those millions which are not running but predictable, Mr. Subalzu, there are great concerns, and there are many dramas. And I don't know how far that social shield was mentioned this morning in our country, seeing how people are doing. The health professionals, the guests, the recruiters, the men who have not yet received the supplementary supplementary of the ERTE, have no access to the cooperation. The people who work in anger and anger and care, turn their attention to the present situation, and are angry with the people, because they bring their attention to them once more. And they're angry that the public expense's priorities are not being changed. They see that in an unusual condition they make and do extraordinary requests, but that they receive nothing against them. Now and here our people are in great need, and it must be proper to answer them from public policy. The best investment that can be made at this moment, Mr. Subalzu, our health, our citizen's protection, our care, education, and the aid of extended economic sectors that have been most impacted by pandemies. But not only for our present need, but also because we have to start projecting what we're doing out of here. And in such cases, the survival of such extraordinary circumstances is not a choice. And there is no such thing as a choice for a government that does not wish to leave any one behind. Mr. Subauzu, today's presupuest balance will be social balances for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u88	Thank you, Ms. Cordu. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u89	I understand, Mrs Kortajarena, that the controversy generated last week on social media has been able to cause you some discomfort, but this is not the first time that you and I have shared this space of communication. But I do ask for rigor in the data. Indeed, the data you used is those that, as I said, we have sent to this House, but not all of them. And, moreover, we must analyse things in homogeneous terms so that, in fact, we can draw good conclusions. Otherwise, with the confusing data is easy. Extracted from context it is easy to generate interested and unlucky confusion at times when we live with incomplete or unfocused data. Let us not confuse people, use data rigorously and thus get closer to reality, which is what we must transmit to citizens from politics. And I end with a rather brief summary of what this Government has budgeted as expenses for the covid in the pandemic. The COVID-19 programme was initially provided with EUR 300 million, to which another EUR 500 million would have to be added in Elkargi's concessionary financing line. Today, with the current data, I can tell you that this programme is budgeted at more than EUR 600 million, to which are to be added other expenses that are being covered from the departments themselves, apart from, strictly, what is called the Covid Programme. And in total we are dedicated to solving the problems of the covid around 940 million euros. For now. And when we have, of course, the closed data, we will certainly pass it on to you. In other words, there are still no use, we would say, 250 million aid from Elkargi, which is available there for, among others, hoteliers to go to this funding line. In this way, following the logic of March, the Government has nearly EUR 2 billion to alleviate the effects of the pandemic, which is certainly marking us all (the pandemic). When we close the accounts, we will know more precisely what resources we have set aside to alleviate the covid's effect. And do not doubt, as I said, that we will put it in your knowledge. Mrs Kortajarena, we are debating the numbers and policies necessary to deal adequately with the health and economic situation and the consequences arising from it. Let's do this seriously. The pandemic and the economic crisis are not going to disappear overnight, unfortunately, that is to say, unfortunately, I insist on time to talk about these issues. We need everyone's ideas and effort to make things better. I am proposing that we talk about the budget and put projects and resources on the table. We'll do it. This will enable us to analyse the efforts that the Government is going to make, through the next year's budget, on the subjects of the covid as well. For next year too, Mrs Kortajarena. This year we are doing it, but I say that in the budget for next year, too. You put the scream in the sky saying we're going to be a month without Budgets. Let us see, the Budgets will enter this House in mid-December. It will depend on the speed of your processing, but in extension absolutely nothing happens for a month, and you know it. There's nothing wrong with that. There is no need to be frightened by the lack of budgets for a month. And if you want it, once you bring the 15, well, then if you try to approve them for the 31, perfect. I know that the House also has its rules of procedure and procedures, Madam President, but I would like to insist that the sooner they do so, the better it will, of course, be for everyone. I would really like your attitude and commitment towards the citizens of Euskadi, Mrs Kortajarena, at this difficult time as we are, to be like those you have shown with Spanish citizens or Navarra by approving your budgets for Mr Sánchez and Mrs Chivite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u90	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. fourteen points in theme list: "The question is, that Muriel Lasea, the popular group of the Basque Laso-Ciudadanians, a member of the planeting planetion, Housing and Transport department, is in the new Bolueta project in the New Expulsion of Bilbo and Visesa Euskadic Home and Earth on the questions reported by the owners of the social housing who promotes public social societies." Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u91	Good morning. Thank you. The Bolueta project is a project that promotes social housing, promoted by the administrations, and all these houses have some kind of consideration of public system, both VPO and social housing. 100% of the neighbours have called for the remedying of problems and shortcomings and shortcomings for more than two years now. We ask the Housing Adviser to answer the following question: what measures will the Housing Department take to solve the serious problems that the neighbours of the Bolueta towers, promoted by the Visesa public promoter, suffer in their homes?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Answer me, Mr. Arriola. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Larrea, the complaints of some neighbors of the Visesa towers in Bolueta for the excessive heating of the floors cannot be blamed on construction defects or serious deficiencies, as you point out in your written question; they are a cluster of circumstances, such as the southwest orientation of the houses, the abnormally high temperatures of the summer, the intense heat generated by the use and the characteristics of insulation and hermeticity of the building – which, on the other hand, guarantee zero or almost zero energy consumption – those that give rise to this situation. I can tell you that Visesa has responded, from the very beginning, to these complaints, investigated the causes and is looking for possible solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u94	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u95	Neighbors of Bolueta's homes, who have not been given anything, feel swindled. They have invested up to 180,000 euros in housing, have even had to borrow and are now paying off their mortgages. They are living a true hell, and they suffer – never better said – temperatures above 25 degrees during the months of April to September. They cannot rest in their homes with which they have so much dreamed and in which they have placed their hopes for the future. These homes that they have acquired, apart from having a serious problem of air conditioning and ventilation, have small failures, such as cracks, door failures. Not even these have been solved by the Visesa public company of the Basque Government. Man, two years they've had to approach and remedy the small flaws, the small flaws. And with regard to air conditioning, they give them a course to teach them that they only have to ventilate their homes at night, leaving the staves open, allowing the light to enter through their windows, aggravating the impossibility of resting in the summer months. But let's really explain what seems bloody to us. The Bolueta towers have the Passivhaus prize, they are even the largest building in having this award or this award, this designation. And here's the problem: you don't want to lose that denomination, even though you know that neighbors are going through hardship. You are not working for the citizens, but for the greater glory of your government. In winter the thing goes well, but it is in spring when they have measurements of such high temperatures. And, of course, because of an orientation, because of the accumulation of heat that people are exposed to inside the houses, whatever it is, in the end these people are not comfortable in their homes because they suffer from extremely high temperatures. An average of 28 degrees, not falling from 25 degrees throughout the day, for so many months, in the end makes it impossible to rest. And I'm not the one to give a solution to that building, because I don't have architectural studies, but I'll tell you that, in the end, what you want is to maintain a passivhaus denomination, which gives the promoter or the person who pushed those homes; however, the placement of blinds or air conditioning so that these people in summer..., I know that that is not environmentally sustainable, but it would improve their living circumstances. I will also tell you that 1,100 housing units are still in the pipeline. Are these new tenants of these homes going to have the same problems? Of course, you have to give a deadline to solve these kinds of problems, because we are also talking about the day-to-day lives of some people. For a while they were going to tell me what time I have to vent my house! Because you have offered a course to all those neighbors to explain how you have to vent your house at night. Man, well, if I'm hot, I open the window at any time. But they can't do it in those homes, they can't do it because of the kind of homes they are, because they are passivehaus homes. And you have a report, the Department of Planning, Housing and Transportation asked for a report to find out if that type of housing or that type of air conditioning was suitable for...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Your time is up. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u97	Mrs Larrea, I do not want to minimize the problem at all, but to give it its strict dimension. 92% of the reported incidences in the two towers, the usual ones due to termination effects, have already been resolved by Visesa. It should be noted that on almost all floors – on mine too, I don't know on yours – it is hotter in the warmer months. A feeling that has increased in recent years as a result of climate change, which is bringing extreme temperatures, such as the 38.9 degrees recorded in Bilbao last July. To alleviate the heating, the homes have the option to ventilate or, as you said, sometimes put air conditioning. But it is true that these alternatives are more problematic in the most modern buildings, such as Bolueta, due to requirements of zero or almost zero energy consumption. In fact, we are aware that this case is also taking place in other housing promotions in Bizkaia, both public and private. What happens is that these situations have not been translated into complaints in the media. But it is a reality to which we will have to respond from the technical building regulations, because we will have to adapt to the warming of the atmosphere. What has been done to address Bolueta's complaints? Well, you said some things. Between March and September Visesa monitored the energy performance of six homes. The temperature, humidity and indoor air quality have been continuously monitored and simulations have been made ad hoc. In parallel, over the summer 11 sessions have been held with the assistance of 138 people to inform them of the patterns of use and ventilation of the houses in order to improve the thermal comfort, precisely because they are passivehaus homes, so that people really know what they have to do to get that thermal comfort. A dedicated advisory and monitoring service has also been provided for 10 other voluntary housing units and a care channel open to all residents. And although the study has not concluded, there are already some preliminary data: that the building complies with the regulations regarding thermal comfort and the passivhaus standard regarding the design and execution of the work, that the heating consumption is practically zero, that the air quality is optimal and that although the internal temperature is similar to that of other buildings, the heat generated by the occupation and the use of appliances has an important impact. This fact, coupled with the sunburn, as I was saying, of some floors because of its orientation, is the most obvious cause of the temperatures reached. And in order to respond to this situation, as I said in my first speech, Visesa is examining possible technical alternatives that will be made available to the neighbours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u98	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interfessional, the Adania Martíne of Misto, members of the Mistho Group, made for the head of the Medical Department, about the measures taken to stop the progress of the coronabirus." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u99	Good morning. Representatives in the House, Health Adviser to the Basque Government, Mrs Sagardui. I will stop for a minute to take a small photo of our day to day: mandatory masks until we do sport; distance between people of metro and half; we greet ourselves touching our elbows; limited visits to seniors' residences, in hospitals; meetings cannot be more than six people, even in our homes; bars and restaurants closed to lime and chanting; curfew between ten o'clock in the evening and six o'clock in the morning; you cannot buy alcohol at a supermarket past eight o'clock in the afternoon; perimeter closure of municipalities and of the Autonomous Community; we travel with safe conduct; we consume hydroalcoholic gel as if it were water. That's how we are now, but recently we were in a different way. In fact, not long ago, masks were not mandatory, gloves were recommended, we could travel between municipalities and leave our Autonomous Community. The meetings could be of more people, we could leave the house at eleven o'clock in the night. I am aware that we are immersed in a changing pandemic that forces us to adapt measures and make decisions every short time. We have seen how those adopted in an autonomous community were later copied into ours more restrictively, if possible. And according to their own statements, each and every one of the measures was backed by scientific criteria, they were the result of reports prepared by experts, those who advise this government. But we have not seen a single report, no one has explained anything beyond that generic need to limit movements and minimize social contact. On the street we wonder why the COVID-19 is so contagious in bars and restaurants, even on terraces, and it is not by subway, by trains and buses, at the school gate, where dozens of parents and students are also concentrated. We observe a bit perplexed that in Madrid the figures of contagion are improving with bars and open terraces, while in Catalonia they go to worse with closed shutters and empty terraces. I do not doubt that the members of the Monitoring and Control Committee are working at a standstill, that the members of the Technical Committee of COVID-19 and LABI are also doing so, but what are they discussing? What are you debating? Do you manage matching reports or do you have to choose between different options? Because I know there are many discrepancies between experts, epidemiologists, virologists, economists, jurists... This is logical, it is normal, experts issue technical reports and the politician makes decisions, whether correct or not. Wisdom, of course, is of the technicians; responsibility for decisions, of the politicians. But Mr. Sánchez, Pedro Sánchez, set a dangerous precedent: to lie to the citizenry and to attribute drastic and very restrictive decisions to experts who did not exist. Therefore, it is very important that you, the lehendakari, make public those reports that support your decisions, so that citizens know and understand and that those 60,000 people who have just condemned to ruin know why their businesses are dying with the lights off and the blinds down, so that couples separated by two municipalities accept that they cannot see. Moreover, their resistance to making them public calls into question their own existence and makes us suspect that decisions are exclusively policy-making from beginning to end. Many people are involved in the process whose technical knowledge I will not question, but it is a fact that the vast majority of them hold positions of political designation (advisors, vice-advisors, directors, deputy directors, delegates...), positions that involve a remarkable dependence on who has appointed them. This is so even if they try to trick photography and this conditions everything, also the results. At this time, the political opportunity or impact of measures in electoral terms should be variable outside the equation. I want to imagine that experts from different fields present reports, whether coincident or not. I would like to imagine that these reports are discussed, that they are valued pros, cons and consequences, that proposals are put forward for agreement and that decisions are considered, valued and weighed. But what are the criteria that are taken into account? Are they politicians? Are they sanitary? A 40-60? A 75-25? And I ask you because you do not tell us or the citizens, parents, entrepreneurs, self-employed, workers, unemployed, officials, journalists who want to know, that we want to know, that we need certainty. Perhaps by making such reports public, exposing to an intelligent citizen the scientific criteria that supposedly guide their actions and endorse their decisions, they would end up with the widespread impression on the streets that they lack the slightest capacity to prevent, that they are improvising permanently, condemning to ruin thousands and thousands of families. I confess to you that I would like to know what technical report, if any, confirmed that the call for elections on 12 July was safe. I would love to know about the report that you advised against hiring and training enough trackers in Euskadi in the summer, and that you decided to increase the number of them as the spread of the virus accelerated. Thus, today they welcome the fact that we have 600 trackers in Euskadi, today that the tracking of cases is almost impossible because the transmission of the virus is community. What would have been of that incidence of cases in Euskadi if it had counted on those 600 trackers in July? And I remind you that you, in your failed Bizi Berri II plan, recognize the tracking of positives and contacts as one of the most effective tools to stop a chain of contagions that today intend to stop by limiting our freedoms and ruining our hospitality and the services that depend on it. Mrs Sagardui, I thank you always for your willingness to report in committee. I am also grateful that you are here to answer this question, no doubt a magnificent opportunity for us in this House to explain why and "why", yes, also why they do all this, but with something more detail, with something more than a generic bend the curve or control the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u100	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u101	Mr. President of the Parliament, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days. "What are the scientific criteria that guide your Government's action to curb COVID-19 infections in the Basque Country, also to prevent the fatal consequences that the current pandemic is having, adding to the current health crisis a deep economic and social crisis?". This is the literality of the question raised. It is surprising that in the current context we are asked what scientific criteria they claim to take measures to curb the virus's progress, but it is more surprising that in justification there is doubt about the existence of expert advice or the very existence of such experts; in his own intervention he has ratified it. I also understand that he is not referring to the measures taken to strengthen health services to deal adequately with the thousands and thousands of patients who have attended our outpatient clinics, clinics, emergencies, hospitals or ICUs, who are suffering from the pandemic. I understand that it refers to measures to contain the spread of the virus by reducing or limiting social interactions in the field of work, education, social or leisure. The answer to the question has different approaches. The rawest, the human, scientific and statistical experience that thousands of people are dying in the world affected by a coronavirus, known as SARS-CoV-2, known as COVID-19. The experience of thousands of people who have gone through the disease and count the suffering they have experienced. We have evidence of 10 million people affected around the world. There are already countless laboratories around the world fighting the clock to make a vaccine. We also have, if the statistics are not enough, all the research and scientific literature generated in the world for a whole year on the nature of the virus, on the different effects it has on human health and on the ways in which it spreads. It is only by approaching any report by the World Health Organization, WHO, which is not so suspicious of dedicating itself to covering the limitations of freedom of movement and activities of people in Euskadi, in order to find scientific evidence of what is happening. WHO recognizes the following routes as possible routes of contagion: Large drops that are emitted when speaking, singing, coughing, sneezing and breathing, and that can impact the eyes, nasal pits or the mouth of someone else less than a meter away. Aerosols, smaller particles that are emitted together with the droplets and which, due to their small size, can remain in suspension in the air. They may be infected by inhalation and deposition in different parts of the respiratory system. They can be breathed in close proximity or by sharing air in enclosed spaces. Direct or primary contact: physical contact of an infected person with another person. Indirect contact: usually, an object or surface that has been touched by an infected person or in which droplets or aerosols generated by an infected person have been deposited and then touches another person. It is obvious in which social environments there are more frequent situations that favour these channels of transmission, even more so if distances, protection measures are not respected and small and closed circles of relationship are not maintained. There are other much less common ways of contagion that I'm not going into. More evidence. We also have the direct experience of Basque public health professionals, of those people who have been fighting the pandemic for a year, saving lives, relieving sick people, carrying out tests for the detection of the virus, tracing infections, vaccination against the flu to prevent the occurrence of both diseases. Ask them if there is scientific evidence to justify the individual protection measures, the reduction of mobility, of social activity to prevent the spread of the virus. In this globalized world, such scientific, political and social consensus has rarely been achieved on the need to combat the pandemic using all the instruments at our fingertips. Investment in care, investment in prevention, assuming the consequences that this has on our life models, on our work activity and on the progress of the economy. Only a few reckless people in the world have put the economy before the lives of their citizens. Some of them have suffered it in their flesh and have rectified it. Other countries thought they were safe, confined to the collective social responsibility of their citizens, but they have also received the pandemic and are also implementing measures similar to ours. I have no experience in the world that has proved effective in the fight against the virus that is not seriously affecting coexistence, employment and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u103	Mrs. Sagardui. Of course there are thousands of reports! Of course there are thousands of reports, also from WHO! But I don't ask for WHO reports, which are public. I ask for Euskadi's reports, on which you rely to make the decisions. Let's not talk about the others now. Mrs Sagardui, today is news the hospital of Basurto and Donosti: we continue to increase the outbreaks of infection even in the clean areas; you know that you have left in El Correo. What I and thousands of Basques and Spaniards want to know and we are anxious to know is what Euskadi's plan is; the good, the real one, the one that's going to get us out of this jam or at least it's going to give us some hope. Will they open the bars again? Will we cross municipal boundaries again? Are we going back to Asturias or Cantabria? And most of us are convinced that, unless we are surprised, we will return to our journeys: the virus will again travel with us and you will again limit our movements and our rights, because so far that has been your only plan, as has been that of your partner in Madrid, Mr Pedro Sánchez, the Pilates of the 21st century, washing your hands now that management is complicated and leaving the solution of the problem in the hands of autonomous presidents eager to rule on their territory. And since we talked about plans, we valued the Bizi Berri II, which at the beginning of October said that our situation was moderately good, but that there was no need to relax. Then, in Euskadi, the trackers were around 300, but it could have been many more to have been proposed to him and to have resorted to the expert services that the army put at his disposal. Well, the Bizi Berri II plan planned the need to increase the implementation of PCR, and so it has been done. Approved. I was thinking of strengthening the tracking of cases and contacts, and I'm afraid they've gone a little slow. I would dare to ensure that they lacked enough numbers when the number of cases was traceable, and he caught the bull from you and, by extension, from all of us. So the suspension in this matter is unnegotiable. And they proposed – I read textually – "modulate and implement all Community response measures regulating activities that, according to the epidemiological situation, better contribute to the containment of the contagion or to combat the attitudes and activities that promote its spread". And here, the truth is, I don't know how to score, because the inconcretion of the text leaves them enough room for manoeuvre. So we're going to leave it in the hands of the citizenry, which in polls of all kinds suspend him. No palliatives, moreover, although it is true that on your television – which should be everyone's – only those who praise your management or ask for even tougher and more restrictive measures will come out. The Bizi Berri II plan has been a failure, so maybe you should think of a Bizi Berri III, but surely it would be as inefficient as your predecessors, because what Spain needs is a national plan, a global strategy to end the proliferation of miniplanes and nanoplanes, to the point that Galicia decided its perimeter closure when it was already impossible for the Galicians to enter Asturias or Castile and León, but Mr Feijoo had to profile. We need a country strategy and no more self-government. I know it would not be profitable for the interests of the PNV and its government partner, but it would be profitable for those who see their present and their future in danger, for those who live in the most absolute uncertainty. And here there is no other responsibility than who makes the decisions, in this case, the LABI, and especially who leads it, Mr Urkullu. He said that citizenship needs a national plan and strategy. And he also needs certainties, certainties. You need to understand and know, to be sure that the mask is an effective protection, that closing bars and restaurants is the best possible option, that our sons and daughters are safe at school and that not letting them practice sports is a good measure of prevention, although then these same boys and girls will be together on the weekend, that plastic gloves serve nothing and that to be safe you have to walk around the mountain with mask. But the reality is no one knows anything, and you give the image of knowing as little as we do. Perhaps from there comes the opacity with which they are managing decision-making. More than a need for citizenship, they should consider transparency an obligation, because we all know that those who are not transparent have something to hide. In short, we need transparency, certainty and a national plan. A plan in Spain, not one in the Basque Country and another 16. Allow me one last reference to your failed plan. He says: "The social dissemination of the Bizi Berri plan is one of the measures that can be considered relevant, because the social pedagogy of rigor and co-responsibility has a strategic character". It is an absolute irresponsibility that its strategy is the concealment of reports, debates and motivations for decisions that ruin thousands and thousands of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u104	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u105	President andrea. I recommend that you read the surveys well, because yesterday, in this very room, we remember the assessment made by the Basque citizenship, both of the management of the pandemic by the Basque Government and of the care received by the Basque Health Service, Osakidetza. Very high, very high. Or do you stay at that minimum percent that you said it wasn't? But I recommend that you read it again. Moreover, if I remember correctly, I believe that your inquiry entered this House on 26 October. Since then, many things have happened. Many measures have been taken in all the autonomous communities with the aim of reducing the spread of the virus: Andalusia, Murcia, Madrid. I guess they ring a bell. I will not enter into the ideological debate that you do want to open. It is not the time, but there is something that we are all clear about, and that is the vision that the party of the representative of the Joint Group has on the territorial vertebration of the State and on the assumption of competence by the autonomous communities, in this case, in the area of health. He always ends up in the same place with his debate! Always! The question is very simple: from its centralistic and uniforming point of view, do you believe that there is scientific evidence that justifies the measures of activity limitation to stop the spread of the virus in Andalusia, Murcia or Madrid? Governments that you support. Do you think that evidence serves the same purpose to justify the measures we took in Euskadi? Pass the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interpology, the members of the Popular-Cyans team of Laura Garrido Knörkal, a member of the United States, made to the head of the Medical Department, to face the coronabirus on the health strategy." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. The chief of the department. At the level of the Autonomous Community, the Basque Government, and following the relevant meetings of the LABI, with the Basque Civil Protection Plan, has taken a number of restrictive measures, some of them very restrictive, to contain the spread of the virus. The first package of measures was announced on 26 October, and, as we all know, limited the meetings to six people, the curfew remained at 11 p.m. There was a margin to advance or delay an hour; he stayed at 11 p.m. And we were also announced the perimeter closure of Euskadi, not only of Euskadi, but also the impossibility of moving between the provinces, and therefore that every citizen would not leave their municipality, with some exceptions. We, at the time – and I have said this here, in this rostrum, on several occasions – were surprised by this announcement, not by the opportunity of it, but because weeks earlier we had been told that the perimeter limits and limitations made no sense, and this criterion varied in a week. But we have also been accustomed, throughout all these months, to varying criteria, and the previous councillor..., I will not ask you about the exhibitions, the statements of the previous councillor, but I want to make it clear also, so that you can see the changes in criteria and the confusion that have been generated by those changes in criteria in the citizenship itself, on very basic issues such as the use of masks themselves: they were not so important, then they were important, and now they are so mandatory that even to intervene, which I will obviously not question, or much less, but I want to make clear the changes in criteria, since, even to intervene in this forum, we also did it without a mask a few weeks ago and now we have to do it with a mask. The second package of measures, these you did not announce, was announced by the lehendakari. We have already said that the first package of measures of 26 October would have been desirable if Lehendakari himself had announced it. It seems that this is the case this second time, and on November 6, last week, on Thursday, the most restrictive measure of all is announced, which is the closure of the hotel, with a great impact. And we also believe that this announcement was not made – with all due respect, Madam Counsellor – properly. It took place on a Thursday, when, obviously, no reaction was given to the hoteliers themselves, to the suppliers themselves, who already had the gender at their disposal and when the hospitality sector had already bought that gender, already stored to serve the issues they had contracted for that weekend. Without a doubt, this measure, we also believe, was not done properly, because it was not accompanied by a specific plan to help the hospitality sector, one of the ones directly punished by this measure, with the impact that this has on its own economy and the dynamism of our cities, and on the economic sector as well of the whole of Euskadi. The strategy of the Department of Health, to date, which has been designed to deal with the pandemic, has, on the one hand, been the application of diagnostic tests in a massive way, especially PCR, even reaching, as we all know, massive population screenings widespread in entire municipalities, or in some specific neighborhood, as also happened in Vitoria, Sansomendi. On the other hand, part of this strategy is based on the study of contacts, tracking from the positives that have been identified, in order to interrupt the transmission chain. This tracking, it has to be said, is not easy, because it involves a great effort on the part of the professionals who do it. And it's not easy to get to the entire network of contacts. And more as is happening now, it is not done with the immediacy and speed that would seem to require a follow-up of these characteristics. And at the same time, well, it has put on the table that assistance resources are also being withdrawn in areas that might be necessary. What we want to highlight with this inquiry, Madam Counsellor, is that this strategy, the strategy put in place by the Department of Health that you are leading – of course, you have just arrived and it is a strategy put in place for months, with variations also known to all – has been based, in recent months or specifically on the management of the second wave of the pandemic, as you said, on that massive testing, especially PCR, to detect the infections, and then on the tracking itself in order to stop the transmission chain of the virus, once a contagion has been detected. But we have to tell you that the data that we have analyzed and that are on the table, provided by your department, do not call us much to optimism, are worrying data. From November 4 the number of infections has increased, reaching the day 6 to 1,557. On October 31st, we crossed the 1,500 barrier, with 1,502. After a decrease on 8, 9 and 10 November below 1,400, the last days, 11 and 12 November, i.e. yesterday and before yesterday, the figure was 1,401 and 1,409, respectively. To this data is added the worrying fact of the outbreaks that are appearing in our hospitals. The virus, it must be said clearly that it has returned to the Basque hospitals, with very, very harmful consequences and with consequences, as I said, that worry us, because in addition to these outbreaks, it seems that they are not controlled, because the number of contagions, both in the professionals of these health centres and in the patients, is increasing. Thus, we have outbreaks in specific hospitals. In that of Gorliz, with 45 infected professionals; we have heard of a death of one patient, 30 infected patients. In Donostia we talk about 135 infected health care providers; in addition, outbreaks have been detected in units that require special attention to the sick, such as the Palliative Care Unit and the Hematology Unit. The numbers in this hospital are increasing, because it seems that the outbreak, the focus, is not controlled. And in Basurto also an outbreak in the Hemodialysis Unit, with eleven workers plus two affected patients. This outbreak, this focus, was detected yesterday and it seems that the number of infected, both in health care and in patients, can also be increased. It seems that these outbreaks have appeared in clean areas of coronavirus in hospitals, which obviously raises obvious questions. It's the access control to the hospitals of the people who go from outside, counselor. That is a question that is there, and obviously the control of hospital visits is not being done properly. On the other hand, it is also evident with these contagions and with these new focus in hospitals the adequacy of the protection teams to our professionals. Are the professionals of Osakidetza being well protected? Apparently not. One of the groups most affected by these infections is the nursing collective and nursing assistants, and the SATSE nursing union itself told us the other day that they are systematically claiming masks FFP2 and that they were not being provided, and in this sense, that protection was not adequate and total to this staff. Therefore, we see that the history of contagion in hospitals is repeated and that it affects again in our hospitals with more and more tired, exhausted professionals, and, obviously, with consequences also not only on the health of the professionals themselves, but it clearly affects the care that can be given to the patients, since it affects the health professionals. We are also concerned about the situation of hospitals, with growing incomes, with an increasing number of ICU incomes; from last week to this, specifically, it went from 38% of the total number of occupied ICU beds to 50%, and to that we also join the contagions in residences, which are increasing that these outbreaks remain unchecked. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, in a scenario of adopting restrictive measures plus the carrying out of diagnostic tests, plus a study of contacts and tracing, silent measures driven by your department that seem to be not giving the expected results, we wonder if you are considering making changes to the strategy designed and being applied by the Basque Government to deal with this pandemic. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u108	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u109	Mr. President of the Parliament, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning again. "It seems that the strategy initially envisaged in the Basque Autonomous Community for pandemic control has not produced the expected results," you say, Mrs Garrido. Well, I understand that yes, it has produced results; even the results that could be expected. There's something we can't know, but we can assume, and it's what would have happened if we hadn't taken any action. We just have to remember what happened during the months of February and March, what happens when there are no protocols, material means or legal instruments to contain the mobility and activity that facilitate the contagion. We are accustomed to this game of eternal roulette in which, if it is not done, wrong; if it is done, late or unplanned; if it is done in time, excessive. The experience of the first wave of the pandemic and the process of descalation have taught all the autonomous communities and countries of our environment a few things, including the difficulty of predicting the changing evolution of the virus, the effectiveness of some of the measures taken and the need to combine the implementation of measures to control the spread with the need to maintain social, cultural, labour, teaching and economic activity; with the normalized lives of people, in short. Hence the importance of this experience in all the work carried out within the Department of Health and Osakidetza to meet health care needs and in the whole Basque Government to design the Bizi Berri document. In the area of the department, we have already repeatedly explained here the efforts that have been made to equip us with more health personnel, to carry out thousands and thousands of diagnostic tests every day, to create a network of tracking of infected people, to develop protocols that allow us to have more hospital beds and ICU beds as the tension in the network of our health system increases; planning, protocol and provision of resources. Within the whole of the Basque Government, they are familiar with the Bizi Berri Plan. The plan focuses on ordering the community response to cohabit with this virus until the pandemic is resolved, and with other viruses or pathogens in the future, if appropriate. It is aligned with international best practices in the European framework for action, and will be updated with the best evidence available at all times. It is focused on articulating the necessary adaptation of social activities, community response, commitments and co-responsibility that, in the form of social habits and behaviours, requires COVID-19 on the part of citizens as a whole. It is a living document, which at every moment has to be modulated to adapt to reality. A changing reality, like the very behavior of the virus. The strategy designed from Bizi Berri to deal with the spread of COVID-19, we understand that it is working, but we need to give time for the measures to have their effect. The assessment we made a week ago for the LABI meeting on 5 November was that since 27 October, four days after the previous lehendakari decree, there was a gradual decrease in the incidence, which was interpreted as the beginning of a change in the trend, which was rapidly rising on previous dates. It is not only worth giving the number of positives; let us also talk about the number of diagnostic tests. The cumulative incidence rate, the IRT rate ratio, pointed in the same direction: the measures taken, together with the maintenance of the tracking, had managed to change the trend, but without achieving a sufficiently strong effect, and of course without realizing that we were approaching the peak of this second pandemic wave. As far as the impact on the care sector was concerned, the number of income was far from that observed in the first wave, but it was causing increasing care pressure. In fact, we were on stage 2 of the five possible in terms of the layout of UCI beds. There had been a change in the upward trend, but it was far from reaching the summit of this second upward wave, let alone the beginning of a 14-day decline in cumulative incidence rates. I would appreciate it if you did not generally talk about outbreaks in our hospitals: the emergence of positive cases and the emergence of outbreaks is not the same. Our hospitals have the necessary measures to prevent the spread of the virus, but there are contagions as in other areas, of course. Our professionals have all the PPE they require according to the risk assessment of your job. These individual protection teams are not established by this counsellor, but are established by occupational health and risk prevention services. It is they who establish what these teams have to be, and what I can assure you is that these teams are made available to all Osakidetza professionals. I return to LABI's reflection, which concluded that it was important not to delay, not to wait for events, and that additional measures were advisable to increase social distancing, decrease mobility and groups of people, and continue to identify and isolate infected persons and their contacts. The deliberations of LABI, as always, tried to contemplate all the points of view, and at the heart of the debate, the measure that the greatest economic and employment effect could have: the closure of the hospitality activity. In the balance, the need to preserve people's health was further weighed. Activity had to be avoided in those non-essential environments where informal social interrelationship and, therefore, the risk of contact and contagion was greater. At this Wednesday's appearance in committee I already explained that this vision regarding the application of restrictions is being shared in the Interterritorial Health Council, each community according to its circumstances. Moreover, Euskadi is not the only community that puts forward more legal instruments in case more restrictive measures are needed. As it also informs you yesterday, in general, the population is complying with the measures in place to control the covid. And without wanting to be too optimistic, it seems that we are either approaching the top of the incidence progression or at the beginning of the plateau before the fall that we all expect as a result of the measures. We have a strategy, all communities and also countries in our environment have it. And they all apply it as circumstances evolve, as we do in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u111	Thank you, Madam President. And, well, thank you, counselor, for your explanations and your response to this inquiry, which we consider appropriate. On the one hand, in relation to the results, that the expected results are being produced, I, forgive me, but I do not know if they are the expected results talking about 1,409 infections yesterday, that last week the 1,500, of the number of patients on the plant (496), 132 people in ICUs – 50% of the total ICUs, when last week was 38% – were exceeded. I believe that these data, I do not know if they are the ones expected for the counselor or are results that can be positive; of course, we do see them with caution, with caution, because, obviously, we will have to see the evolution of the coming days. We have not told you that no action has to be taken, but it is obvious that a debate on the measures could be raised here. Because in the Community of Madrid, the sacralized Community of Madrid a month ago, the rate of contagion has now been clearly reversed, with the hospitality open until twelve o'clock at night. I do not know if in Madrid people will be more ordered when they go to bars, to the hotel shop, and to keep in touch in these areas, but what is clear is that with the hotel shop open until midnight the figures have been reversed for a long time and, of course, no action has been taken now, as they have been taken in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And, beyond the discussion of the appropriateness of the measures, what we have denounced is that these measures have not been accompanied by sufficient information, sufficient forecasting and corresponding aid, especially when a sector has been harmed in a specific way. We are talking here about the effectiveness of measures, and I am referring to two measures in the health field, which are the carrying out of PCR diagnostic tests and all that has to do with the network of trackers. Chapter aside, okay, let's talk about focus, if you want, let's not talk about outbreaks, but it's clear that in hospitals right now we have a problem, that our health care providers... Man, you'll tell me if the number of 135 infected health care workers is a problem or not. It is the figure that is being given today in the media, and, as far as I know, the Department of Health has not denied it. Yesterday I had the opportunity to see the Teleberri at noon and in the afternoon, and he occupied a very prominent place on the Teleberri, which is Basque public television – of course, he will have no suspicion of being in favour of the opposition, in this case – stopped in the spotlights of these hospitals. And he was clearly talking about focus, the focus of Gorliz, Basurto and Donostia Hospital. And he focused a lot of time on Teleberri. Therefore, I do not think it is an issue to be minimized, Madam Counsellor, when you too, at last Wednesday's appearance, paid him a lot of attention. Therefore, I think we should also ask ourselves – and I think we should do the reflection and imagine that you in the department will be doing it and will be doing the corresponding analysis – what is happening in our hospitals, because the history of our hospitals is repeating itself. And you weren't at that time, but I have to remind you that the first focus, and the first focus where the contagion began, and, in particular, in Vitoria, was the focus of the hospital in Txagorritxu. And then other outbreaks also appeared in other hospitals. For not telling you the dramatic situation that has been experienced and that if you continue to live in our residences. Therefore, when you tell me that we have learned, I do not know whether we have learned much, but I do not know whether we have implemented all the necessary measures to alleviate many of the shortcomings and many of the problems that were detected and that were occurring at that time and that are still problems now. Because if you tell me that personal protective equipment is enough, then the complaints from professionals who tell us that they are not giving themselves the proper masks, the FFP2? And why, then, do professionals get infected in our hospitals? If the protection is the right one, there wouldn't have to be infection in hospitals. One last question: well, we ask for transparency, clarity, leadership, clear criteria and foresight. Of course, you will remember that here we were the first to close the schools, and that measure was first taken in Vitoria and Álava with several schools, and then extended to the whole of Euskadi. And now, in a scenario where very drastic measures had to be taken, schools have not been chosen to close. Indeed, it has not been chosen because it has been seen that schools are doing things right and that they are doing things in an orderly manner. I simply set it as an example to show that there has been a lack of forecasting and that there has been a lack of clear criteria when dealing with this pandemic crisis by the Department of Health.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u112	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u113	President andrea. I repeat, Mrs Garrido: if it is not done, wrong; if it is done, late and without planning; and if it is done in time, excessive. Yeah. Look, Mrs. Garrido, I think we've learned, and you've also learned, and you've learned to read the data as we've done the rest of the citizenship as well and as we've done; then, don't use them, don't use them to try to sow uncertainty where there isn't. When you talk about the number of positives, contextualize it; and when you talk about what we say the measures have had effect, contextualize it too; and when you talk about that in hospitals there are infected professionals, also, tell everything and explain it properly. Don't throw the headline, which is what you like, the headline. Here, the most difficult thing, the most important thing at the moment is to reconcile the necessary activation (social, cultural, labour and economic activity) with the containment measures that we are implementing throughout Europe with intensity, throughout Europe with intensity. For a few months, it is true, during the summer, it seemed that we could live with the virus. But this second wave has already reached almost everyone. We knew and knew the measures to stop the virus. We know they're effective, but we don't always do them. What we have done is to adapt the intensity of these measures to the levels of contagion that we experience every day and that give us the measure of the evolution of the disease and of the tension that we will suffer after a few days in our health services. And that you also know how to interpret. We do not see them right now, but, as you know, the intensity of mobility and activity restraint measures can be further increased. Let us hope that this will not be achieved, but there are already those who apply it in Europe and put it in the Spanish State. We don't want to get to it. What does not take us away so that before yesterday, again, in the Interterritorial Council of the Health System, we ask that the necessary legal instruments be empowered to decree higher levels of confinement. We do not want it or expect it, but, if necessary, we would like to have the instrument to act swiftly. And not just this Autonomous Community. Finally, we contemplate how an important expectation is being generated in society, linked to information about the proximity of the vaccine against the covid. It is an expectation result of a certain fact: there are several vaccines in a very advanced clinical study process. There is a forecast even pointing to the month of January as the month of the arrival of the first. It looks like it's around the corner, but it's going to take a lot more time for the whole population to be generalised. In the meantime, remember that every person entering the ICU will be a collective failure. So it is necessary to continue to insist on maintaining preventive measures, avoiding relaxation and complying with them. The strategy is one and it is bearing fruit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interpology, by Isabel González Rodríguz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU team, made of equality, justice, and society to the chief physician, to protect, to protect violence, and to prevent it." Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u115	Good morning, ma'am, members of the Parliament, chief physician of the Artola generouss. A few days ago the lehendakari announced measures to restrict mobility and thus control the spread of the virus. Stay at home, restriction of mobility at ten o'clock, it is recommended not to stay with people you don't live with... Everything's fine, but if you can't stay home, what's going on? If your house isn't safe, what happens? If you live with your assailant, what happens? Do we know what's going on, Mrs. Artola generous? Well, danger increases. It's easy: that the assailants control it more, that it may become an oppressive state, and that violence against women increases. This isn't news. This, by the first wave, we know. This is complicated when they can't ask for help or phone calls, when they can't access basic social services in person. And you know what happens? Well, it continues to increase risk, control and impunity. When they are designing measures that do not have in mind an important part of the population, well, I suppose it will be because the same in their committees of experts, such as LABI, there is little feminist perspective, perhaps too many gentlemen. If we say, "Stay at home," let's go with him, "Stay at home safe." Learn from campaigns from other countries, from Latin America, for example, that have implemented it, but don't just make messages. For women in situations of violence, above all, take action. If the data indicate that during the three months of confinement the reports of violence against women were dropped, it was not because the attacks were down, but because women had no way of reporting by the established channels. That, and that many times women don't feel safe reporting. Maybe we have some responsibilities in all this. The defendants have collapsed, but the petitions to intervene and to consult were raised. And that's what certain organizations were produced by phone consult services, chats, and virtual space. That is, structural violence is still there, because it is structural, but the situation has changed – we are in a pandemic –; we need effective measures to detect it, with the channels and the ways in which it reaches us. Violence becomes more invisible. We have been told by social workers, psychologists, staff who care for women who live with sexist violence. It is the women themselves, not seeing clearly where, nor how, nor when to get out of their situation, who generate their own containment strategies. The hours of forced house confinement become hours of survival and self-protection. Which, as a administration, ought to make us rethink whether we are regulating what we do, as a government, as a department of justice, equality, and social society. From the March-May confinement there are several official reports from Emakunde or the Gipuzkoa Diputation that provide data, analyze what has been detected and also launch coherent hypotheses on this subject. These reports highlight, but above all, professionals in this sector warn that there have been major failures that need to be addressed. The training of the staff, the obsolete existing channels, since it was not implemented, for example, the channel of WhatsApp, the itineraries for the complaint, the housing offer itself, the functioning of the CAI, the inequality of territories or municipalities when implementing resources... And we're in the second wave, and we have no measures. And this is negligence. That, or that they don't care about sexist violence. But what's going on? How come the government hasn't been able to implement something so simple with a WhatsApp channel? And what happened to the 15 measures in which we reached a budgetary agreement in the past legislature, all aimed at preventing and detecting male-based violence? Why are not the recommendations that they have made from their own bodies considered? Because what we're seeing aggravated is not new. Because women have not only experienced situations of macho violence during confinement; we are confined, teleworking and, in addition, assuming responsibility for care. We could identify, as Emakunde already does, even prevent – which is what must be demanded of a government and, specifically, its department – more special aid for groups of women we know have a high risk of suffering some kind of violence. For example, women with disabilities or women suffering from mental illness or those who are the subject of this year's Emakunde campaign by 25 November: older women. Similarly, migrant women, refugees, asylum-seekers and returnees, victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation. Another violence that has been unleashed is LGBTIphobic violence. In this state, unfortunately, the xenophobia, the stigma, and discrimination increase. The difficulty in getting services, for instance, of health services, may be increased by an irregular state. Is that taking care of it? We have all been aware that, when desired, it has been possible, and there are some positive examples of interdepartmental coordination during the past confinement. But the detection and prevention of sexist violence was not strengthened as they should be. And that is what we have been asking from my parliamentary group. Now we should not be using prescriptions that we saw were not enough to reach the victims and that should not, moreover, contribute to their invisibility. We have experience and reports that support the need to analyse the conduct of macho violence produced in a novel context and that care services for victims of violence are not adapted, depending on the territory, the institutions and, above all, on the training of people working in this area. And to resist the masteric violence, to strengthen the budget if it was important before, it's even more important now. We'd like to remind you publicly that together with the government Podemos had designed and accepted the system for the support and attention of the victims of illegal violence, and for the improvement of the protocols. We're waiting to see if they're done or how they're doing it. And when it comes to responding to situations of violence, we have to take into account the difficulties before the health emergency, and I think that in their department they are aware of the difficulties that professional staff in the different institutions are having in detecting situations of violence: the demand for training, the lack of resources from the smaller municipalities or that the automaticity of the complaint and the complications in the judicial process are harmful to women, or even that inter-institutional coordination is not always agile and access doors are limited. So we would like you to tell us what measures you are implementing to ensure that all these invisible situations of violence and all the shortcomings that have been identified by people working in the field of prevention are addressed by this new situation of mobility restriction and possible confinement. Mrs. Artolazabal, tell us how you are helping or supporting those women who endure the macho violence in the context we live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u117	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all good days. I will gladly transfer to you what measures have been put in place by the Basque Government, in collaboration with the various institutions and associations, in the face of this complicated situation that has had to live and endure women victims of gender-based violence. What I would like to do is start my speech by saying that the Basque system of care for victims of Machist violence responded adequately to the unprecedented situation experienced during the months of confinement of the first wave. And this, moreover, we did in collaboration and with the advice of Emakunde, because Emakunde, I want to remind you that it is part of the Basque Government. Faced with the difficulty of that situation never before experienced in Euskadi and the rest of the world, we confirm the importance of having these structures and services consolidated. And we do not make any messages, Mrs González, but we have put in place measures – and concrete measures – to address these realities with specific budgets. This institutional or inter-institutional reaction allowed all services to be kept open, intensifying coordination work in the Basque Country for over 20 years. An interinstitutional coordination agreement which has been key in the response and which, together with a strong and settled structure, has enabled us to respond to this unknown situation. Collaborative work by different departments of the Basque Government, deputies, municipalities involved in the response to violence against women. And this inter-institutional and multi-level working habit has been key in the response in this unprecedented context. With this same dynamic that we employ throughout the pandemic in the first wave we will continue to work to give answers in this second wave, but I would certainly like to tell you the areas in which we have been working. Contact with institutions responding to violence against women present at the Follow-up Committee to the Second Inter-Agency Agreement. Also from the Department of Equality and Emakunde we continue to lead the Follow-up Commission and work continues to be coordinated. We have strengthened the dissemination of Satiti, our specialized 24-hour information and care service to women victims of violence, which, as you know, 900 840 111, is a telephone service attended by specialized professionals. Satiti already serves in more than 51 languages and also people with hearing or speech disabilities through a specific channel, which is about to implement an important qualitative improvement at the hand of the association Euskal Gorrak. Satiti was already dealing not only with women victims of gender-based violence by partner or ex-partner, but also with situations of physical, psychological, sexual violence or neglect of care by a man in the family or the environment who is not a partner or ex-partner. Aggression, abuse, harassment, forced prostitution, trafficking in women and girls, female genital mutilation, forced marriages, etc. As you can see, Satiti complies with the Istanbul Convention, and our service is immediate, anonymous, confidential, free and leaves no trace on the invoices. It caters to all women victims and also to their relatives or people close to them and professionals who demand counselling information, and during the first wave of the pandemic the care provided increased by 10%. Satiti is not cared for by teleoperators, as happens on the state phone, 016. I would like to remind you that until last October 016 was a service that was only for gender-based violence in the strict sense of the term, and according to sources of the Ministry of Equality, from last October 016 would become a service of "psychological attention and emotional accompaniment". Fortunately, we, that path we had travelled many years ago. At the state level, during the confinement barely a WhatsApp was enabled, and this, I want to tell you that I do not know if it will seem the best tool, it is one more tool, but we have been putting in place many other tools to serve these women. In Euskadi we were already providing personalized psychological support through the multidisciplinary team that serves this phone, which is made up of psychologists, educators and social workers, and I would like to take advantage of this forum to thank you for your work and professionalism. But I would also like to highlight the complementary psychological care service of the outside institutions, which carried out commendable work with thousands of support interventions during the first wave of the pandemic. Foral services continued to respond to all active cases and began intervention in hundreds of new cases during this period. In this second wave, a massive dissemination of information on the 900 840 111 and 112 emergency telephones, as well as on their app, has been resumed. We have also published material in different languages, and through our collaboration with the coordinator Edeka materials have been adapted in order to be able to reach these women with disabilities effectively and effectively who may be suffering male-to-machist violence during the pandemic. On 25 November, we launched a campaign against violence that is more hidden and targeted specifically at older women, and this campaign has been carried out on the basis of the budgetary agreement reached with their political formation. We believe that this campaign is going to be a breakthrough in case detection and will help bring older women closer to existing resources. The spread of the app, as I told you, of 112 has been strengthened and the possibility of, once downloaded, reporting the emergency without a phone call, pressing a button that allows geolocation. Risk cases have been identified since Ertzaintza and counter-monitoring has intensified. In the Beti On teleassistance service, during the state of alarm, proactive calls to women identified as susceptible to violence have increased. The case coordinators have then contacted them to assess each situation in this complex context. Applications for single payment aid have continued to be processed during all these complicated months. The processing of these aids, of these applications, was simplified by telematically enabling the possibility of doing so more quickly through a specific email. The technical team of our department has up to date all the aid procedures, and from the budget item extended in these Budgets of the year 2020, which reached the amount of 1,300,000 euros, has already been executed more than 80%. We have also strengthened the dissemination of the phone Zeuk Esan, 116 111, which is the Child and Adolescent Care and Assistance Service, to address possible cases of violence against girls. And we also maintain contact with associations of women victims and survivors of violence to know their specific needs. From the programmes of the Inor atzean utzi gabe fund we also pay special attention to the most vulnerable women. And aspects related to the pandemic have been included in online training for professionals involved in cases of violence against women. So, Mrs González, you will see that the system is responding to an unprecedented situation, never before experienced, and this too, as I said, we have done with the professionals and associations. However, in our quest for continuous improvement, we continue to work to preserve and strengthen it with a view to responding to the challenges that are emerging. In this difficult situation, to pay attention to women who are victims of violence, we have confirmed the importance of fixed structures and of strong services. We have seen that a slight co-ordination is essential at pandemia time. In conclusion, I venture to assure myself that our reaction has been exemplary in the State of Spain. As I said, in this difficult situation we have confirmed the importance of having strong structures and services to care for women victims of violence. We have found that fluid coordination is key in pandemic times. And to conclude this intervention I dare say that we have been an example in the Spanish State, and that is that you will share with me, Mrs González, that, in the State, the resources used to prevent and deal with macho violence are significantly lower than those of Euskadi in this pandemic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u119	Thank you, Chief Artola generouss department. There is one issue on which we want to draw your attention and which we believe is vital to consolidate the mainstreaming of gender equity into all policies emanating from the Government and this House. I was talking about you guys doing measurements, not messages. We are seeing that you communicate and design responses to this pandemic by ignoring that macho violence remains equally active and that it also changes when social dynamics change. They obviate, for example, that the pressure on how to get to the end of the month, the overload of care and emotional stress also impact on sexist violence and that they are factors that make it increase. Nor do we see any clear message to citizens about the community and preventive role, in this sense, that of accompaniment, that of associations, that of women, our neighbours, our friends, those who can sustain us. We're listening and they're repeating all these days that we stay at home, that the person who has social relations these days outside the cohabitational environment is an irresponsible... And, well, even understanding that they are messages that are necessary to cut off transmission chains of the virus, is that people who suffer male violence and who hear this speech will also not be sure, they will feel even more insecure. Because it's not as important to stay at home not to get infected with the virus as to stay at home safe. Because the covid is just as pandemic as the macho violence and even as structural. And that the whole society, that women know for sure what they are entitled to and what support they can count on is very important. And although they're implementing what you're saying, many channels, many phones, many campaigns, really, what the first confinement reports say is that a lot of women didn't get that. Besides, well, we think it's essential to work on structural failures, right?, which showed us the first wave. For example, the issue of IACs, lack of coordination or access doors, right? (the judicial door, the Ertzaintza door, the municipal police door, the social services, the women's organizations of the municipality), all of which must be doors when called and which must be coordinated. Or, for example, Mrs Artolazabal, the strategy of the homeless, which set out a guideline on the reception resources for non-mixed homeless women, because there are women on the street who suffer a great deal of violence, and there were women who were given them to mixed spaces. For example, another matter that remained of the previous confinement is the delay that Lanbide accumulated to attend previous appointments, and Ararteko also made, on more than one occasion, an appeal on this matter. Overstretched basic social services, that is a problem that is identified, and if it increases the precariousness and the collectives and profiles that resort to social services, the ears of the people who care for these people should not be overloaded or saturated; they are demanding more training in this regard. He spoke of Satiti, well, and commented on the ministry. I believe that the ministry was the first to drive an institutional service of WhatsApp. The WhatsApp is not the same..., we are talking about any telematics channel and, above all, whatsApp, that gives the woman a point of privacy that means she's having a bad time. It is necessary to explore all possible digital channels of communication. And finally, where we're not going to get the administrations, women are going to rely mainly on other women, on their trust network, on their neighbors, on associations. And these associations, right now, are seeing limited access to funds, limited calls, grants that aren't resolved... You mentioned in your appearance in the Committee on Social Policy the 30% increase in equality policies, and that 30 million will be invested in spending on the eradication of machist violence. And we've seen together and in town halls how you're not supporting that. Well, from here, Mrs. Artolazabal, we ask that policies for the eradication of machista violence regain the weight they should have on the political agenda, that they are not displaced with the excuse of the covid and that the emergency...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Please, when time ends, it ends. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u121	Mrs Gonzalez, there is little time for us to discuss this issue that we are all concerned about here in this House. And I really believe that we all agree on this. What happens is that we have to be, well, realistic when it comes to saying things and also putting into value everything that is being done. They have never lost their role in equality policies in this Government, they have never done so. They have been referenced on many issues. Besides, that's what many agents have recognized, and I don't think it's fair for me to say that we get back what we've never lost. I believe – I have told you at the beginning of the intervention, in the initial intervention – that all the measures that have been implemented from the different institutions and also from the different departments..., it is not only a WhatsApp, they are concrete measures, concrete aids; not only telephones, they have been called, they have been training professionals. And all this has been done by associations working in the field of exclusion, and by women who are victims of gender-based violence, Mrs González. We're not so weird that we don't count on the people who know about this. And it is also that our own technicians also have the knowledge and training to be able to advise us. We don't live in a bubble, we're not Martians. I mean, we know what we're talking about, and we're also doing it in collaboration and coordination with other institutions that are offering this series of services. And I repeat that the attention to victims of macho violence has been and is being adequate. What else can we do? Sure! And that's what we're working on, both in the first wave and in the second. I share with you that nothing is enough to deal with this violence, and I would now like to paraphrase the idea of the founder of Amnesty International, who said that, well, his success would be if his organization disappeared. Yes, but we are not yet in that situation, and after a long time Amnesty International continues to exist because we have very serious problems. And we are not deluded, we have a complicated problem, we have a problem that is vital, a priority for this Government and that we must increasingly address these women who are suffering from a very complicated situation from the point of view of gender-based violence, which is a situation that, of course, we cannot afford and the greater inequality that exists in a society. Our commitment in this Parliament was clear in my first appearance to present the strategic lines of our department for the coming years. And in this legislature, as I said, we are going to increase that 30%, and we are going to see it in the next Budgets. Today, the Álava Foral Diputación announced the launch of new resources for women victims of gender-based violence. That is what it is about, to continue to move forward and to continue to improve the initiatives we are putting in place. We continue to stress that we believe that equal education is the lever to eradicate macho violence. We have been working from the belief that if we do not educate on equality, we will not be able to end this situation of inequality that is contagious. And, besides, when I was talking about the fact that we don't take women into account or that in the Homeless Strategy the situation of these groups had not been taken into account, that's not true. When we put in place the different resources to confine the people on the street, we also took into account the situation of vulnerability of the women's group, because they have a double violation of their situation. And that, we have taken into account in putting those resources into operation. Because, as you know, we didn't just do it ourselves, but we did it in collaboration with the third sector entities working in this area. I believe that we have an important challenge ahead of us, that we are going to bring to this House a bill that will provide for the strengthening of economic, human and technical resources to develop equality policies, that we are going to work in a complementary way on this citizen's social pact against violence, and we trust that the Governing Council will be able to approve this law in the near future. In conclusion, I would like to say that, as you said in your justification of the inquiry, in the context of a socio-economic, health crisis, I believe that we have put all the measures and programmes in place, we have strengthened services and resources for women victims of violence, we have a protection system that is proving to be effective, we are doing so in collaboration with associations, political groups like yours, and with your amendments we have put in place initiatives to help women who suffer from gender-based violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 18th point in the subject list: The question is, "To ask the question of Mine, of the parliamentary laws of the Council of Ibañez to the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Society of Police, of the second assault of COVID-19 as well as of domestic persons." Kortajarena andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u123	Thank you. Good morning chief, sir. There are many ways to face the Covida than realists for people who live in the streets. How do you fill the curfew if you don't have a home? When the situation is serious, and a strategy of people without homes has been established, it would require a priority for you to take care of these people, but there has been no mention of them in the measures announced. To this may be added the statements of the Mayor of Bilbo, or the police corporations made in the Hell of Donostania, where he left about 60 people in the past week in the streets, and the local councils made together with the Gabeko strategy. In this situation, chief of the Artola generous department, what measures did your department predict to treat people who had no homes in the right way?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u125	Indeed, as you point out in the justification, Mrs Kortajarena, proper care for the homeless must be a priority right now, and for this Government it is. And for that we have been promoting different initiatives to improve your situation, whose fundamental expression we have in the Basque Strategy for Homeless People that you well know. For us, this evaluation of the strategy we have undertaken has left us a picture showing that the measures envisaged are being developed positively. I have already transferred information on this matter to Mrs Gonzalez in the past full of control. But we are in a situation certainly transformed by the pandemic. The situation at the time of the strategy has had to be updated in relation to what we have had to do before the pandemic. That is why, since the beginning of the health, economic and social crisis, we have been working hand in hand with institutions and entities in the third social sector. We have already activated the Social Exclusion Commission of the Civil Dialogue Bureau, where, as you know, we worked with the agents. We have already activated that committee in this new wave, in order to work closely with the various actors and to shape the needs arising from the uncertain situation. We know the realities that are occurring in Bilbao and Donosti, and the common goal is to identify those consequences to see how we are able to adapt. We have the Inor Atzean Utzi Gabe fund, and we will continue to work so that in this second wave we can respond to those needs in an extraordinary situation like the current one.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u127	Yes, thank you. The priority is for you, but exactly what is the plan for this second attack? What's the plan? Because we're already involved in the second assault of panic. It's a very serious situation. These severe measures are already taken, and they must be fulfilled. And you're telling us that you're going to look into the measurements that you're going to take. But what's the plan? What people are in the streets every day. He can't wait for you, Chief Artolarior. And if this were really a priority, I think that in the New Year's Plan, where it was already received, there should already have been an examination made for this second impulse, and that the services which ought to be anticipated should be made. Orina egun gutxi zuk, gaiaren inguruan galdetuta, aipatzen zenuen lehen urratsa éta exactaten zenigun aurreko oldarraldian frontoietan eta polydeportiboetan atenditutako partona gehienak lehen urratsaren programran baitan sartuak daudela, bathe zuk ondo dakizu hori ez de la errala. 578 square bete dira. Gu asko pozten gara plaza horiek martxan jarri izanez, bathe you should know – surely already know, because it has the functions of leading the strategy of homeless people – that the reality is much more crude than all that. What's left of it, Mrs. Artolazabal, the Homeless Strategy? Where are the guiding principles of this strategy? How do statements like Mr. Aburto's, or what happened in Donostia's Hell, in the middle of the pandemic, that leaves 60 people on the street? How does that fit in with the Homeless Strategy? I think you can't look the other way in this situation and stay in that paralysis of the analysis. People are out there. There are a lot of people out there. And the measures in force are an added punishment for all these people. It's the first line of defense against the coronabirus that has become the first line of defence. And that's what you've got to think about, but now! In this case time is a determining factor, there is no time, winter is red on the street, Mrs. Artolalli, and in this extraordinary state it will be even more red. You made some commitments. You introduced us in the compromiso interdependal para atheists a las peoples sin hogar. Well, keep your commitment, keep your commitment. No one without homes in this situation and no one else.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u129	Mrs Kortajarena, we have fulfilled our commitments, and, as you rightly say, housing is the first step to get people out of the street. And so, when the pandemic hit us, we made it clear that we had to do something about it. Already in March we set up a working committee, as you well know, with the third sector, and we set up two programmes: one, Aterpeak, and the other, Lehen Urratsa. Aterpeak has been used to support the initiatives of entities that, together with the municipalities, provided shelters for homeless people during home confinement. And Lehen Urratsa has been the next step that we have designed with the institutions to offer accommodation alternatives with social accompaniment, in order to reactivate or initiate insertion processes for people who left the licensed shelters, because we had already identified those people and wanted to continue working with them in order to be able to continue in this process of integration into society. We are having an opportunity to deepen the knowledge of each person. We're innovating in the answers. We are resuming, launching itineraries for their insertion processes, which along the pandemic some fell. And I would like to stress to you that we have organized specific devices for women – before I told Mrs Gonzalez as well – because they have that double vulnerability that you well know. We will continue to work with the rest of the institutions. We are going to shift the impact and needs that have been identified and that we already know. And thanks to all this inter-agency collaboration and with the third sector, more than 1,000 people have been cared for since Lehen Urratsa. Our intention is to extend the measures adopted before COVID-19 beyond 31 December this year and to adapt them to changing needs, always in dialogue with other institutions and with the third social sector. We remain very attentive to the evolution of the pandemic, and I do believe that we are working, that you and I have the same concerns in this area, and I look forward to your cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the lawmakers of the Forest House and the National Society, made to the head of equality, justice, and society, as to the care of the institutions in the field." Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u131	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. You made a speech which surprised us much in the second part of the performance you conducted in the legislature, suggesting that the groups here do a great deal of service when we speak of the public system. You compared this to the disappearance of families, and you said that you are concerned with the persistence of your family. And we want to ask you a question, pulling it: Why does the chief physician think that a public care system is economically and socially irresistible?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u133	Mrs Etxebarrieta, in my recent appearance I pointed out that our priority would be to work to strengthen the Basque system of social services as a system of public and mixed responsibility, with the prevalence of direct public management and through the social initiative. In assessing social services policies, it has been found that more than 30% of investments or resources are allocated to the area of dependency, and therefore all the realities must be taken into account in order to meet all the broad needs that we will have in the area of social services. And, therefore, it is very important to carry out this economic analysis of sustainability. I also stressed, in the context in which we are in, that the progressive ageing of the population would mean that we should promote a balance in institutional and family care in favour of the former, the latter, and strengthen community care to a greater extent than residential care, reversing the pyramid; this is what I literally told them. And we seek to ensure that people who so desire can continue to reside in their home; this is something that we all share as well. And that men and women who wish to take care of their families can do so. I insist, informal care with support from formal services; and that, Mrs Etxebarrieta, is not advocacy of care in the family core. We will approve the care strategy in the family environment, we will work to promote formal care in the life path of the elderly, and this requires strengthening support for caregivers, strengthening institutional care and the involvement of men as well, but we must also take into account the economic investment that we have to face. We will encourage a new balance of personal care, family, collective, and institutional care which will insert the genus view, and we shall discuss it with all interests, beginning with the sentries. Our aim will therefore be to put care at the centre of policies, so that we can move forward in an increasingly co-responsible social organization and make this transition from conciliation to co-responsibility effective. And she believes and works for a socially and economically sustainable model, in which institutional and informal care needs to be balanced.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u135	Thank you, chief of the Artola generouss, for answering. I believe that every time we have spoken of this subject in this legislature, we have been sufficiently enlightened by the rest of the groups, and also by the institution of external feminists, or equality, are constantly speaking of the enlargement of personal care, collective, and public care. But here, once again, I have wished to express two important ideas: the first is, that the care of the women is still at the expense of their labour, and at the expense of their free will. Therefore, when you constantly refer to your families, we cannot forget what the present situation is, what the context is. As Amaia Pérez Orozco says, "It is imperative to denounce that homes are referred to the titanic task of solving life in a system that attacks them. It is necessary to make everything that is already political, but that we live to a large extent as personal. Stop seeing them as the ground of freedom that are not, among other things, for that freedom to really be possible." Bizitza sustangatzeko baldintzak jartzeko weretzukizunak, beraz, kolektiboa eta demokratikoki banatua izan behar du. Horretarako, despribatizatu egin behar da, etxetik atera, éta publikoan jarri. Desfeminizatu egin behar yes, genero-identitateak deseraikiz eta lanaren banaketa sexualarekin amaitzeko. Eta bigarren idea: Legebiltzarrean gaude eta zuek Gobernua zarete. Eta, beraz, institution bezala dazkagun eta bereziki zuek dazkazuen arduraz hitz Egypt ezinbastekoa yes. Esaten nuenez, Gizarte Zerbitzuen Legeak argi eta garbi said: "The Basque system of social services will be a true pillar of the welfare state, constituting itself as a system of public responsibility and universal coverage, aimed at the whole population". Public and universal responsibility. If we guarantee this right, you came to let us know that maybe no one would want to take care of it, in those questions that you threw at us. But this is not necessarily the case if we think of this right as a guarantee that no individual subject is forced, at the expense of his or her own quality of life, to take care of a care for which there is no social responsibility. The right not to care is the guarantee that no one, because of his particular position in the world (for example, to be read as a woman and, therefore, an innate caregiver, or to be a migrant and not to have another job option), is imposed on him the individual resolution of a reality of interdependence, denying him his own autonomy. Porello, volvemos a insistir: we must work for the social confession of the care-makers, the establishments, the institutions, and the public care of the people. As Alvarez says, the wind must change its trust. We don't have to be suspicious and afraid to try different ways of doing it, even though these ones have been partially mistaken.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u137	I do consider, like you, Mrs Etxebarrieta, that it is necessary to work in the area of co-responsibility in care. I have been saying this since last parliamentary term, and this Government is already pushing for numerous measures to be able to move forward. These changes are long, and for this we need them to be internalized by society, in order to be able to do so. To that end, the institutions must encourage these changes. And we also need to promote the professional and personal development of people, and that it is also compatible with that care. That's what I think we all agree on here. But I also believe that care is a feature of our society, of our institutions, and families and communities value and we are determined to preserve and dignify it. That is the political project we are defending. We seek a new balance between institutional and family care in favor of the former, to strengthen and recognize and promote both. I do believe that it is fundamental, and we will address care from the principles of freedom, justice and solidarity. I believe that Euskadi – and that is true – invests in dependency more than twice the state average per inhabitant and year, and I believe that this effort must continue. I want to give you a positive view of family care, and I think we need to dignify that care, but for that we need to be able to balance institutional and informal care.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Josu Estarrona Elizdo, the parliamentary of the Cultural and the chief physician of the Politiques, "about the calling of a necessary good of culture." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Good afternoon, head of culture. Among the various things which have been taught and taught by this multidimensional crisis of Pandemia, it is the time for culture to leap into certain engagements and actions, which express the importance of society; and this must be done in different degrees. We believe, in this sense, that from a vast agreement, as it has been made in the several countries of Europe, the name of culture, as a vital and fundamental property, may be of great importance at the present time; and indeed from the express word, but especially from the engagement which it presupposes, and the development which it demands after. Culturity is a consistent jurisdiction, so that we can accept expressions which we think proper to us, to develop our laws, and make plans which we wish to make with our financial resources. As in the Parliament of Gaul, BNG and PSG will present it at the end of this month, the Generality, on the 22nd of September, appointed a necessary culture, and on that very day, in the Senate of the Spanish Kingdom, with the consent of all the political communities in Madrid, with the delegation of all the political groups we have here represented, was required also to the Spanish Government. On next Thursday we shall have occasion to do so in this Chamber by a proposal which we have made to discuss; and therefore it is a clear and direct question, at the head of the Cultural series: Does the head of culture agree to appoint culture as a living property?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u140	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u141	Bat swimmer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u142	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u143	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Well, I'm glad that, because I hesitated, I'd have had this answer or not. And I'm also glad that the teams who support this government have not corrected themselves in that sense and direction. So I think we'll have a chance to get a deal, and I think it'll be important. But even when this is once called, as I have said, it will require moderation and development, in which we speak of the funds of Europe. And I think we'll have a chance to agree, because we're making a development and a demand for you to run the culture industry and the culture puzzle. Do you know what European Union says? That at least 2% of all projectes present must be a cultural industry and an airliner. And you don't get to the minimum on that first list you've introduced yourself to, 2%, so I think we still have a deal to deal with, and I think we'll find ourselves there too. But we shall also have occasion to demand for the departure of new measures of consent, and the application to the execution of the standards, conditions, and duties which are in force, and the execution of the sector, to make them come to a greater number of people. Because it depends on your data, and it's official data that they've been released this week... [[Shows a graph.]] On Monday you signed it through a command to the sector, to the art and culture professionals, you spent 431,000 euros of the two-year-olds and half-cented ones. And from the 2 million members of the microETE team you've turned 412,000 euros down 20 percent. So you're not making this up, so you're gonna have to work it out. So let's give culture its value. We need culture. We need Culturists and creators, so let's take care of them too. And for this purpose, as has been said, we shall have a chance of establishing a solid foundation for this end next week, while the other is aware that culture has a fundamental character.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u144	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u145	Mr. Estarrona, I think your question is easy and easy to answer. I believe that culture and habits of culture are vital or fundamental goods, whether they give or not. The other areas that are related to our department believe the same thing, each to his own field, and so they ask us. During these last few days, at the same time, we received a number of messages in the department, asking for the normalization of the eucatic, school sports, tennis, sporting, etc., and so on, about the basic activities, and that we're designated as such. And I agree that all the areas where our departments run are, like many other departments, basic activities. And culture, too, of course! From the beginning of Pandemia, and in the past few weeks, as you have said, we have read so much news about appointing the fundamental goods of culture. You mentioned the Senate, soliciting the Spanish Government, an order which has not yet been executed. You mentioned another proposal of the law proposed in the United States of Congress, asking the Spanish Government to do so. You even made mention of the Catalan Government. And in Andalucia, I believe that the president of the place asked the same thing 15 days ago to the Spanish Government. We've seen them all, and they're fine. And I agree with these denominations and expressions. The two parties that make fun of you put together in every case that happened to those proposals. In some places, however, expressions are carried away by the wind. The General of Catalonia has cut down all culture activities: Films, museums, files, concerts, etc. The Junta of Andalucia had made that request to the Spanish Government, and two weeks later, the state of culture had been interrupted by six o'clock in the afternoon. If you want, Mr. Estarrona, let's name culture as a basic activity, but if the condition of health demands a further reduction of the activity of the citizens, admit that we will confine them to ourselves, as they must have done in other places: in the measures which ought to be taken for the appointment, and for the health together. In any case, our principal purpose is to continue to maintain the cultureal activities. For the moment, according to our last decree, this activity is guaranteed, and if possible, we will maintain it. Many citizens have a chance to observe the actions which the elders of their own countries arrange. But if we have to take the harder measures, we'll take them, and try to keep the bookshops and libraries open, not for consultation, but for loans. In any case, we will continue to take measures for culture and new measures from the spring home. And our commitment is clear: to promote culture in a safe manner, to respect the conditions of health, and constantly to review its support. In my opinion, that's what culture needs and all the organizations need to be enabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u146	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "Interretion, Muriel Larre Laso Passcal, Populous Group of Ciudadans, Member of Tourism, Commerce, and Contsumon, summarized effects of the entire state of business in the Euskeleskal Office." Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u147	Thank you, President. Mr Hurtado, we have been called upon to bring this question to you today, to the plenary session of Parliament, for being a Trade, Tourism and Consumer Adviser, following the announcement of the closure of all the hotels in the Basque Country as an extreme measure, adopted by the Government to which you belong. Mr Lehendakari has spent a whole month giving time and playing along with the Basque citizens on possible measures to fight the covid, and at the last moment decides to close the hotel shop, generating a stigma on the sanitary-hygienic measures in this sector. You have not wanted, over the course of this month, any kind of dialogue with the employer in this sector. Why have other alternative closure measures not been studied? Why has the dialogue, the dialogue with the employer of the sector not been used? Why haven't you all worked together with the hoteliers, from empathy, to find a solution that wasn't closure? For example, four-person tables, closing at six in the afternoon..., to influence the habits of the population without leading to the death of one of the most important sectors of the Basque Country: hospitality. You didn't want to work hand in hand. The hoteliers have given ample evidence of their desire to innovate, their desire to reinvent themselves, to give up their skin so that they can lift the blind of their business every morning and earn a living. Politicians must be up to it and we must not fail. Just a few weeks ago you spoke of an interdepartmental table, at which there were deputies, the Department of Economics and Labour, the Department of Self-Government, the municipalities of San Sebastián, Vitoria, Bilbao... including the Government of Spain. And, you said five work tables would come out, specifically. Well, look, one of the tables might have been meeting with the hoteliers to agree on the type of measures avoiding closure. The same week as the table was set up, the Government closed down the hotel shop. They were late, Mr Hurtado: that table should have served to coordinate a rescue plan that accompanied the measure of the total closure of the hotel. But no, what they've been taking out has been 30 million to give, at most, 4,000 euros to each hotelier. Well, they're crumbs. And I will give you an example of another administration, of other governments: that of France and that of Germany – and it has been repeated today, several times –: while they decreed the closure of all non-essential activity have articulated an economic rescue based on the billing of the same period of the previous year, that is, of the year 2019. Is the Basque Government capable of demonstrating the same solvency towards its people? And I would like to mention a few words that Mr Lehendakari has said, spreading a slight shadow over the Basque hoteliers. It has given me the feeling that I meant that there was some problem with the billing of the hoteliers: either they didn't bill everything or that they didn't have to be given that 75% announced by Germany of the previous year's billing. I don't know, either one of the two interpretations seems tremendous to me. It's a halo, a shadow over a sector. Political decisions cannot be responsible for the collapse of a sector: hospitality. And Mr. lehendakari's answer to Carlos Iturgaiz's question, then, gave me truth... or that you want to be scars with the sector and you have the means but you do not want to face the serious crisis that you are promoting with your political decisions, or, worse, that there is no money. Be honest with our citizens, who deserve it. What are they going to do in the case of the need to close the trade sector? Which I assume on your scale of values will be the next one on the burn. You're not going to send rescue to the sector, are you? And I'll say the stela of good management fades away. The model of self-government declines: so many skills and are not able to care for the people who sustain them and who pay taxes regularly. Other autonomous communities have not been so drastic, and they seem to be achieving positive results. Not to mention the package of measures they have implemented, some to accompany the restrictive measures. Well, they've shown bad management right now. The hoteliers do not deserve the decisions of those who govern them. They don't deserve political decisions to ruin them. And don't tell me about ICO loans or any of that, the hoteliers need an emergency respirator. The 30 million euros announced on Tuesday are "the chocolate of the parrot". You guys settle for shutting up in the middle of the sector. Imagine what a hotelier can do that pays 20,000 euros in social insurance and only gets 4,000. It's just that they're not covering, tackling the root problem, the whole problem; just a few. Besides, I'm going to tell you that they just passed municipal taxes. They have left the accounts to zero, because they have invested to adjust their establishments and have paid their taxes. They have rescued the workers who have been able from the ERTE, because the economic situation and the situation tense by the measures received by the covid have not allowed them to rescue all the workers from the ERTE. Let's see, we're talking about 65,000 families with no income. It's just that neither the RGI is going to be able to pay them a salary this month so that they can eat or pay their homes those workers. They're working with patches. At the moment the hospitality needs to be served in the ICUs, I repeat, and both its ruin and its reflot are in their hands. Do you want to be the culprits of the impoverishment of these families? It's just that it's said fast, huh? They have not measured the consequences of their decisions. I repeat: is the Basque Country a solvent community to live up to this situation? Hard and mature. Don't be scarred with the hoteliers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. To answer, Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Parliamentarians, parliamentarians, good morning. Well, indeed, the worsening of the pandemic in its second wave in the world, in Europe and in Spain is forcing measures to preserve people's health. Because of the type of expansion of the VOCID-19, experts agree that the best way to curb this expansion is through limitations to social interaction. And my position, he knows that it is firm from the beginning: health is the first thing. Different measures have been taken in our environment. While efforts are being made to avoid residential confinements such as that which occurred in Spain in March, one of the most widespread measures is the closure of hospitality in neighbouring communities, in other communities and in most European countries. And here I want to make one point: the closure of the hotel shop, in all the places where this measure has been taken, is not decreed on an improvised or random basis, is taken on the basis of sanitary criteria. We have waited as long as we were able to keep the hospitality open, when many autonomous communities and countries, as I have said, had already closed, because we are aware of the importance of this sector. And we have to make it clear that if the health authorities turn to the closure of these establishments it is because they are places of socialisation, of interpersonal relationship, very conducive for people to relax and the prevention and enforcement of health measures are not carried out in the most correct way. It is not a question of stigmatizing the sector, which is always showing a collaborative and responsible attitude and always applying with rigour the measures imposed on it by the health authorities. Having said that, it is up to the public authorities to tackle the problem which, of course, causes this measure and to try to alleviate its economic and employment consequences. In this respect, the first thing we need to do is to characterize the sector precisely. Basque hospitality is a sector of great importance in the country's economy and gives employment to a large number of people, but it has a unique situation that cannot be compared with other national or international realities, and therefore needs specific measures. In Euskadi, the hospitality sector consists of 99.5% micro and small businesses and self-employed, 12,219 establishments, of which 8,297 have between one and three workers; 3,224, with a workforce of four to ten; and only 698 have more than ten employees. From the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs we have been working from the beginning, balancing different scenarios according to the possible measures taken. Last Friday, 6 November, the new measures agreed by LABI, which came into force on Saturday, were published. On Saturday the closure of the hotelry is decreed, and on Tuesday we have already presented the order of the new programme of assistance to the Basque hotelry, equipped with 30 million, which accumulates to all the measures that are already under way. And we approved it at the first Governing Council held following the publication of the measures adopted by LABI, three days after the new restrictions came into force. We did not just make an announcement of the support measures, we approved them in an order with all the guarantees. And guarantees that will be reflected with the publication of the order in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country next week. The new support for Basque hospitality joins others that have been launched since the pandemic took place, framed by a resistance plan. The €30 million of this new call is in addition to the €25 million in special aid, the €8 million in regular aid and the €5.7 million in consumer bonds, i.e. €70 million, 45 of which are specifically targeted at the hotel sector. In addition, I must say that we have not taken any action without first speaking and having direct communication with professional associations in the sector, both for bonds and for the covid order and for aid. In short, the new support to Basque hospitality has 30 million new euros and seeks to support the hospitality sector in a context of difficulty arising from the crisis of the COVID-19. They are directed at autonomous, micro and small enterprises. Its primary objective is to help maintain activity, helping to alleviate economic losses and thereby to sustain employment. As a socialist and as a counselor, I assure you that this department's commitment to employment is firm. Therefore, in order to ensure such employment, establishments receiving aid are required to maintain the activity for at least four months, once the opening restrictions are lifted and the activity is resumed. They are direct aid to companies and compatible with the rest of the aid from other administrations and the application of ERTs. Establishments hosting them will receive 3,000 euros if they have 3 or fewer people working, 3,500 euros if they have between 4 and 10, and 4,000 euros if they have more than 10 people. I am fully aware that the effectiveness of any such measure is that it reaches all those who need it and that the award and payment procedure is swift and rigorous. For this purpose, in the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs we will have an extra technical team of 20 people who will be dedicated exclusively to the urgent management of these aids. This is one of the support programs that we want to give to the sector from my department, but we are coordinated with other departments of the Basque Government (with Governance and with Economy and Finance), and with them Elkargi's commitment has been addressed so that the funding lines of less than 10,000 euros requested can be managed as quickly as possible to businesses and autonomous people. Elkargi still has a fund of 250 million, to which these micro and small enterprises can be welcomed with very favorable conditions, at 0% interest, without paying anything in the first year and to help them sustain their businesses in the midst of a crisis. I am aware that overcoming the situation and that the Basque hospitality sector has once again the dynamic and strength that characterizes them is a matter of uniting efforts among all the institutions. I welcome statements by other institutional, out-of-town or municipal officials to adopt support measures, in the first case, or the exemption of certain fees to the sector by the city council. The support which the Spanish Government can provide with the extension of ERTs, the extension of the supplement to lower incomes or the flexibility of criteria for self-employed hoteliers who can access social security benefits is also important. For our part, in addition to taking action in the light of changing circumstances, we will continue with the line of work undertaken a week ago at the inter-departmental and inter-institutional table, addressing in an extensive way the problems that raise all the problems of the sector. Coordination among all institutions, follow-up action among all institutions, evaluation of the actions taken and ongoing review to improve them. Counting on the sector as we have been doing is essential for no one to stay out and adapt the measures to their needs. That has been the work I have established and with which I intend to continue. And I conclude: from the department we will continue to work with the hand extended to the sector, being its ally, also from other institutions, and coordinating new measures. This programme of assistance to Basque hospitality is a new step that seeks to support more than 12,000 companies, formed, as I said before, by less than 3 workers for the most part. Family business, in many cases, to whom we want to reach directly and effectively, to help them maintain these businesses and jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u150	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u151	Look, counselor, we're on time. We are putting everything with our means into this matter. Are you putting all the means into this? Because he is very satisfied with the measures that have been taken, but it is that this morning there were all the hoteliers..., well, a large part of the hoteliers protesting, because they are not satisfied, because those measures that you have proposed do not satisfy them. And the hoteliers are the first ones who are aware that the situation is serious, the world economic situation is serious... However, with this closure we are already bringing them to ruin. They won't be able to open the blinds! With that 30 million help you announced on Tuesday, we're not gonna get you to lift the blind, because you're... We're not gonna make it, they're not gonna make it! And, moreover, because they already come from a deep indebtedness of the previous confinement, I want to say that it is a sector that already came with difficulties. Now we're giving them the final stock. And, look, we, what we're proposing is a rescue plan, but a rescue plan in which they have to coordinate with all the institutions. And for that is very well the interinstitutional and interdepartmental table that you have spoken about. We would propose a package of measures at that table. And I'm going to detail them, just in case they come in and, besides, these aids would make the hoteliers satisfied, because they start from them, from studies that you have done and that would be good for them. In other words, we are talking about direct aid amounting to EUR 200 million; at 0 revenues, 0 taxes, i.e. tax exemptions; IBI waivers, water charges, sewers... And all this is coordinated with the deputies and with the boards and with the municipalities; requests for mediation of action before the Government of the nation and with the banking entities or the owners of the premises, for exemptions from autonomous quotas; moratoria on mortgages, rent-removals or, simply, fiscal measures that benefit or do not worsen the situation of those who rent and have no other source of income and have to stop collecting such money. Extensions to ERTE until April. We need transparency, clarity, speed, acting all institutions at one and not each on their own, that is, all hoteliers have to have the same opportunities in the Basque Country. We have told you this morning, and it seems to me that we will have to bring it to debate with the corresponding motion. There is too much at stake and you cannot afford to play "the girl" – if you play the mus, you know what it is – witnessing instead of facing the problem of hospitality in all its dramatic dimension. And I'll tell you, what's more, the important thing is to listen to people on the street, to the hoteliers, and realize that with the support measures that you have proposed is not enough; for them they are crumbs, and, really, they are giving them the final stock. The Basque hoteliers need to be truly supported, to be shown that the sector is being supported and to be shown that in a time of crisis they can be helped not to sink. And that's what the rescue plan we're proposing is about. And take note, because we didn't get it out of our pocket. It is a well-argued rescue plan that proposes the sector of the employers of the hoteliers and that they need it as water of May. Really, let's not let them fall. They don't need any more Elkargi loans to get more debt, they don't need them. What they need is real support. Keep them in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. I'm happy. Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Larrea, let's split it up. I think I have explained to you in detail the work we are doing and all the help we are putting on the table, which has been set up and which we just brought in last Tuesday. I used to talk about the interlocution too. Interlocution is permanent. And it is that not only I say it, says the sector itself, if you attend to the communications they make, and to the communications they make public, so they are saying it: the contact is continuous. And we're talking to them permanently, both me and my entire team. With which, I think you'll have to stick to the truth. Second: quick response. Man, we're at a time when, if anything characterizes a global pandemic, it's uncertainty. And we – I insist again –, on Thursday the decision is made in the afternoon, on Friday it is published in the BOPV, on Saturday the restriction is made and on Tuesday we carry the order. Man, if you think an order is made in four days... No, no, Of course we work with all the scenarios in a permanent and coordinated way within the government! And when you make the decision, we take it. Man, you make comparisons with other governments. Let us also talk about other governments and other autonomous communities. By the way, some have called me to ask and to be interested in the norm, how we had done it and what the functions were, some governed by their own party. Of course, there are two ways of saying things here: it is to announce the aid to the bowl and dish, and then to delay and delay and to arrive some order or not to arrive, and then to publish. I, in the mornings, when I arrive in the office almost every day I ask the first question: "Have any new orders come out of the autonomous communities?". We monitor all the support they provide in autonomous communities and other countries. And of many we have heard announcements, but they have taken no order or action to an official newsletter. And we, I have just told you, took three days to bring the order to the Governing Council, and it will be published next week. That's our way of working. And then, about the figures, well, you bring in 200 million. Why not 205 or 223? You say that the data are in the report; you have not justified or brought anything. He talks about mus; so, I think he "goes of lighthouse": where are those studies and where are they...? I believe that public officials must act with this rigour. Man, they could also have done what the EH Bildu group does, which is simply copy the measure passed by the sector, take it to the photocopier and distribute it. Well, look, we, what we do is we analyze. I have had these requests from the sector for a long time and we have worked on them, and I have said this publicly, well, we believe that these figures do not correspond to reality: first, in the calculation of the billing is not only the hospitality sector, it is putting other parts and other sectors; then, in the operating expenses use those of 2017 with a formula that I do not share and that could be another, and that we have discussed and talked quietly and we work; and then, not all the measures that are being taken by other administrations, from the Government of Spain, with a series of measures; from this very Basque Government, deputies, municipalities... Apart from that, the calculation and annual growth that makes that figure, moving 2017 so far, does not correspond to real inflation. Well, then, those are the measures we're going to analyze and work with them. And you bring a plan, yes, just with a figure, but with nothing to back it up. And what are we doing? Work rigorously and act day by day, because circumstances are changing. That there will have to be new or different measures? Well, it's that according to the circumstances, but obviously, no government can save the sector's situation with all its losses, because there are many sectors. And I tell you, I've told the sector and I say it publicly: I'm its ally and I think I've been demonstrating it since I arrived, but I'm also a jurist and socialist, I mean with jurist that we are in a collegiate body of the entire government, that we make decisions, that we have to take care of all sectors, and in a crisis of a global pandemic I understand that the priorities are health and education. Are we going to continue working with the sector? Of course, and I urge you, when you present, to present with real reports and numbers, and we will continue to work with all of you and, of course, with the sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-13.u154	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and twenty-three in the afternoon.
