ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the subject list, I remember that 32 lords and ladies have inherited the vote. One theme: "The monographic argument, in the frame of European funds, is determined by the strategic direction of the EAE, and by the preliminaries." This is the round of the group that made the proposal. Mr. Otero representing the EH team is yours to defend this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u1	Good morning, and welcome to this monographic discussion of the Basque Country around the European funds. It seems to me, in so far as we are callers, that our first work is to explain the reasons for calling, or at least the principal reasons. Before we begin, however, we wish to express our solidarity and protection in the name of the whole parliamentary assembly of the Basque People, in the name of Sonia of the United States, Rafa, Miren, our general secretary, and here in the Parliament to our fellow-citizens. In this year of the 50th anniversary of the Burgos trial, the stench of the state's sewer remains. But let them be clear: They won't stop us. They won't stop us. If Europe, in the division of funds, really applies to what has been said, that the States which violate human rights will not be laid down, the dispute would soon cease here. Returning to the Monographic, I cannot begin without a quotation about chance. We've asked for monographic discussion on the importance of the European funds. We've all confessed, you've all said the importance of the matter. Where's Mr. Urkullu today? Doesn't it really matter to him that he's here to listen to what we've asked for a monographicographic to say? Is it more important for Banco de Santander to be in a canteen? Really? Is that the respect we owe us? Is that how you do a popular education? We think there are three main reasons for making a monographic discussion about the funds in Europe. The first is the same as the importance of the matter. At my first interview, on the 2nd of October, the European Union, in view of the gravity of the economic and social situation, took on an extraordinary and extraordinary decision: A billion dollars worth of $70,000 in common, not only agreeing to the budget of six years of euros, but to form a fund of $750 billion in common. They say the train will pass once. The path taken with these funds will condition the development model for the next decade. So the theme is strategic. The second, that there is need of more light; it seems to us that there has been but few. Although the European Union required a vast political debate about the subject, it was not in ours. Even if it was agreed in May to take these measures, and in July, it wasn't here to open the discussion; it was shut up around the subject, even if there were many invitations. During these months, it has been evident that the Government does not want to speak in a clear manner of this subject, and the little that it has done has been due to our enterprises, or to the pressure which it has felt. And thirdly, we're in crucial days. Before the end of the year, a detailed list of what I'd like to send to Madrid will be accepted. So these two weeks are crucial. This process, of course, does not come to an end here, but in so far as the series of 29 will condition the whole process, it seems important to us to discuss several points of this matter, if possible, and to establish certain conditions. Therefore, we understand that there are plenty of reasons to have convened the monograph: the intrinsic importance of the funds, as they are going to significantly condition the ability to undertake transformative investments and reforms in the next decade; the need to bring some light to a process that is being opaque, and I would say turbulent; and the importance of this moment, since just two weeks remain for the closure of the list of final projects to be sent to Madrid. In one sentence: this monograph should serve, metaphorically but also politically, to open a can that the government, basically the PNV, has tried to keep closed to call and chant. It's important to us, however short it may be, to discuss these funds. The year of the end hasn't been tender. The sanitary emergency that we have not yet passed has plunged our lives into a chaos, caused death and suffering, and plunged us into an unprecedented social and economic crisis. He's gone deep and surfaced and accelerated by the multiple attacks that followed. Our life to-day, our two principal words which define our life to-day, are inaptitude and uncertainty. The crisis of COVID has led to the emergence of a cluster of problems of silence that have been developing for a long time. We are dragging a predatory economic model of the environment that is already colliding with the biophysical limits of the planet; a degradation of social cohesion, a crisis of care that deepens the gender gap, an affluent productive structure and a unilateral break in the social contract by the elites. A civilizational disorder, in short, that shows us in the mirror the disjunctive of transforming or collapsing. Only a sincere reflection and a joint effort can put us in a position to deal with an unreplaceable social metamorphosis with guarantees, because this country cannot afford to collapse. The answer to the crisis that started in 2008 is that it's connected to today's situation. So, instead of asking for responsibilities from those who had turned the economy into a casino, and telling them that they had speculated above their possibilities, we were told to the rest that we had lived above our own. And those responsible were rescued and the account was charged to the rest, via austereicide, which immediately resulted in a weakening of living and working conditions, protection and social cohesion and a draining of the power of public policies that explain, to a large extent, the lack of resilience, the lack of capacity to suffer a blow when the pandemic has arrived. Even though the liberal schema showed his lack of future in 2008 and the next few years, in 2020, in the pandemia context, he has shown a total failure. The marketlog and the law enthusiasts are now making desperate calls for states, administration, and economy to help. This is the context. And in this context it has come to write the ciaboga of Europe, the primary strofa of a paradigmma change. The public thing comes back: the Administration that plans, that orders, that regulates, that directs. Again save the situation, or at least try, with a huge stimulus package to try to deactivate the certain risk of paralysis, the certain risk of deep depression. A sort of roosveltian new deal, from the post-war Marshall plan, now called Next Generation. But there is a fundamental difference that should not be forgotten. Today, unlike the 1930s or 1950s of the last century, we are in a world on the edge, with material resources dwindling and in which the decades of excesses of our economic and social metabolism turn us into a boomeran in various forms of emergency, such as climate, which threatens Damocles' sword to life as a whole. Hence, the digital transformation announced, hence the strengthening of the announced social policy, the indefatigable energy transition, the job generation sought, everything, in short, is subject to the objectives of climate neutrality and the guiding principle of "no more damage to the planet". Keynesian policy, if you want, yes, but inevitably appropriate to ecological limits, which forces us to select with special care the next steps. There are risks on the way. I'll quote two chiefly. The first is about the receivers and the profits. We must overcome the socialization of the profit/Gate's socialization scheme. We are in the presence of a vast public enterprise, and the benefit of this enterprise ought to be the whole society of Europe, and, in our case, the population of Euscal. And that must be drawn in the design of the funds, and in the options of the projects. We cannot fall into old schemes, where defeats were consumed with the money of all, and the profits of success ended in private hands. And we have too many examples. We'll have to run some risks through the European funds. So if we want to start disruptive projects for organic transitions as well as technological adaptations, and the wide range of life reproduction, we have to set conditions for the public and private welfare. Because if we don't go back to the weakening process of public barrier in this transformation, we can get on the way to social indulence. And this, besides its foundations, opens up as it were the question which creates value and wealth. And, consequently, the discussion of the distribution of wealth and of the prosecutions is also opened, and Europe will open them, because the latter are obliged to begin with the new prosecutors to restore these other funds. The second question or danger lies in the condition of the arrival of money. Europe has said that ecological and digital transformations are funded to ensure social resilence by strengthening the economy on the way and creating employment. But though not yet defined, the phantoms of conditions are already beginning to shake: money, for the loans of the semester in Europe. And, looking at the Spanish State, there are particularly three elements under the magnifying glass: a business trade, a pension system, and homogeneization of the internal trade. And they're all three dangerous. And all three can be used as blackmail. And the conditions on which we are placed in Spain will determine us. In this way new funds have resurrected the old problem: Of sovereignty. Europe has divided between the States, and it is not the same whether it be a state or almost a state. Intercollection has nothing to do with it, and it is also a step back, as we already know in the management of the European funds, where we can manage it directly in Europe. Madrid will try to adapt the quail of our projects to the needs of the state. And our projects will go through the classification they made. And needs aren't the same. But Madrid made it clear: they decide, and we manage the part they decide. This, too, requires a popular institution: to decide here and defend our project, because there is a lot of gambling, because there's danger and we're going to have to be effective in Madrid. It was the beginning of the national education. Unfortunately, we didn't see a single step from you in this respect. And I want to remind you of a few words spoken by Mrs. Berrojalbilz on the committee. Literally: "Dede el PNV specralmos que los estda superen tentición degestionar estos phndos decentraliada y en soliitio." And we agree. But two questions come into my head: What's the most effective way that this doesn't happen? And what you're asking Madrid is "nogestionar decentliciada y en solitio," how do you apply in the scope of responsibility, i.e. here? Isn't it fun, isn't it, you know, when you're doing this, you're doing this, you're doing this, you're running it, you're running it, you're running it, you're doing it, you know? We think so. For all that has been said, this is not a question of division of money, or of only a question of division of money, much less the exercise of distribution of prizes among the Prefects. We understand this as an exercise to start drawing the future. Or we should use it for that. The questions should be as follows: How do we imagine the Basque Country in 2030? What is the Basque Country that we want to leave to generations to come? And what is the contribution that European funds can make to attain it? And if we can't do everything, what preference do we get? And what do we agree here to defend ourselves? And this work transcends the horizon of a colonial government. With that point of view, we've been working on this subject for a long time. After the first deliberations in May, we emphasized the importance of the subject in Istanbul, in which we discussed the popular history, we made several offers. And I won't stay here, there's the documents that I sent in July and November. In the legislatures, the Chinese and Navarre, and here the work done here is known. Besides asking for information, we've placed proposals on the table, and have worked the matter in all the institutional grades, especially in the town class, where we've got a lot of government. We've met with a lot of social and economic agents outside the institution. And we believe that we are able to make strong proposals about the subject, whether about methodology or about government, or about projects and programs which ought to take precedence. But we must confess that we have met in front of us the front wall, with EAJ and this hickey, the government that speaks of the neighbourhood, the government that speaks of the social government, but with the government that has rigid practice and obscure practice. This process could have been done taking into account that, indeed, and that we have not denied, it was the responsibility of the Government to hand over a list of projects that could be funded on certain dates; that the road could have been done in many ways, for example, by creating a framework in which we all had the opportunity to think, design, define, collect different contributions, and decide, classify and prioritize what we were most interested in. This is a collaborative governance framework. Instead, you have decided basically to talk to yourselves, because you think about power and you think about the country in basically party and close terms. And that very narrow conception of power and governance, combined with the long-generated costs in the form of habitual beneficiaries and impossible balances between stakeholders, has led them to make an opaque, chaotic and ineffective process. A race of codazos that has eventually created an atmosphere of mistrust between territorial, economic, social and political actors. Their collaborative governance, their auzolan, has been limited, first, to trying to adapt the funds to their previous plans, starting the house on the roof. With a list, with two, that have conditioned the whole process, instead of doing it the other way around, initiate a process of reflection on what was requested. Then, or at the same time, ask for advice from a consultant who, by the way, warned them that they were doing it quite badly. To create, in extremis, an intra-government organ, less than a month ago, to make a handful of meetings and, we suppose, although we have not been told, to attend the parade at the door we do not know if of Lakua, of Lehendakaritza, of Sabin Etxea... And with this they plan to finish the matter. And from there, you aspire to comply with reading the Euskadi Next plan in the newspaper and to be informed from time to time about what you are doing. But to report is not to govern collaboratively, or borrowing the expression of Fernando Alburquerque, Orkestra's associate researcher: "to report is not to participate". And when things like that happen, it comes back to talking like that or lying or half-truths. We are told that there will be a light frame for our contribution, but then there is no mechanism for us to contribute. At least it's not clear to us. You say it's gonna be a transparent process, but then you say you're gonna keep the list so you don't make any noise. The president says you're talking to Eudel, but then Mr. Subauzu must admit that he didn't know anything about the Board of the Eudel Committee. It's said you're getting the plans, but then we're told you're only together with three of the capitals. We're told you're doing a popular tour, but in half a year you haven't called us to talk about this. We, with our 2500,000 voices and our 1000 selected ones, are not at all a part of the popular rite, and it has all been so. Collaborative governance is to design an effective, comprehensive, diverse framework to, first, make a prospective exercise of what we want to do at this crucial moment, then decide how to maximize, how to reverse in society the benefit of this collective entrepreneurship exercise through the selection and prioritization of what we want to implement. Finally, within the same framework, to create a system of continuous improvement and monitoring of the results to be achieved, because perhaps not everything that is launched with these funds will be successful and will have to be rectified and followed up. In this regard, and to give just one example, one of the first measures Portugal has taken to manage these funds was the creation of an anti-fraud office for European funds. Even Spain, within the framework of the governance of the funds, will set up a monitoring body. Us, what? Didn't we remember a history of supposedly disruptive, publicly funded projects that consisted of a "take the money and run"? Don't we have in mind, for example, Hiriko's memory, for putting one? We've been studying the various processes we've made with these funds, and it's hard to find this a different process. It's really hard to admit that after sending Madrid's selection of projects that can determine the future of this town, we'll find out. You don't seem to know what's at stake. What is at stake is too much to be clear and blunt. A genuine material and cultural transformation is needed that requires strong public leadership. The man in the moon, thus the European Union has defined the civilizational mission of achieving carbon neutrality before 2050, a title that refers to Kennedy's moonshoot in the 61st century. A metaphor that reminds us that what matters is to put all the capacities of a country under a higher objective. A mission that the market economy, based on policies that have operated in recent decades, is unable to complete. And it's not just what, it matters how. It is not just about making the ecological transition to carbon neutrality, which is already a Herculean task, but also about making it socially cohesive and cohesive, under a concept that will mark this crucial decade in history: climate justice. And I read you a little passage from the economist who seems best to have picked up the sign of the times, and I quote: "The current capitalist model leaves to the public sector the stupid role of fixing market failures and almost always this happens too late and too little. We need a more ambitious public sector capable of changing the current economic system. To produce these changes, the first thing is to catalyze all sectors, public and private, to collaborate and move towards another economic model. We need a more ambitious public sector that will bet on changing the capitalist system. These radical changes go through a new approach, that of missions, in line with Kennedy's moonshoot to reach the moon in a decade. This idea is already being incorporated by the European Union, and it is already working on the missions that will address the challenge of the systemic transformation of economies, societies and narratives necessary to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals and address the climate emergency." The words are by Mariana Mazzucate and, by the way, she is the adviser to the European Commissioner for Research and Innovation. Even if you don't get any more out of this intervention, stay with this bibliographical recommendation: The Entrepreneur State: myths of the public sector versus the private sector, and please read it, because this, and not another, is the vision underlying the various programmes being launched by the European Union, including the Next Generation. And this is so, because the social and climate emergency leaves no choice but to bet on profound changes in the economic policies and governance models tested to date. We recommend reading, also to you, Mr Lehendakari absent, and to your Government, because you do not walk in this direction. In fundamental aspects of economic policy, you have promoted a development model that cannot be called sustainable human development, no matter how much you have incorporated terminology into your plans and programmes, you do well, but practice has not arrived. Energy-climate policy is a good example of this and the results are known. Infrastructure policy, three quarters of the same. In the technological field, wrong strategic decisions, such as the sale of Euskaltel, the dismantling of the technological sector, the thinning of the public sector, the lack of proactive industrial policy, the disregard for the circular economy, which includes openings of climate emergency incinerators, the laissez faire to industrial waste, which has brought about what it has brought, or the lack of planning and investment to adapt the system of protection to the crisis of care. That was the stamp. But it turns out that liberal, neoliberal economic policies, no longer take us, have brought us to the very edge of the abyss. They have proved harmful in ecological terms, and harmful in terms of inclusive development, and Euskaltel is a paradigmatic example of social failure. It turns out that we have detached ourselves from the public broadband infrastructure, paid among all, we have given it to a company that, in turn, has sold it to an investment fund. A strategic public infrastructure over which we no longer have public and social control. Doing so at the door of a digital revolution is an irrefutable demonstration of the lack of strategic vision that has prevailed in recent years. And I insist on the next turn, because it's about self-criticism in economic policy. The public sector is not, as has been pointed out, to generate the conditions of contours so that private capital will then be prepared to respond to social needs. No, because this has proven to be a social and ecological disaster. The public sector must play an entrepreneurial, proactive role and intervene in social and economic configuration. Participation in the financing of a strategic project must take place through participation in social capital, so that the public sector can play an active and entrepreneurial role in those strategic economic sectors for the transformation of our productive fabric. And the energy and digital sectors are. Because if we don't, we will end up pushing for projects that respond to particular corporate needs rather than the general interest. The strategic investment that comes from European funds will determine the orientation of our country's economic and social development in the next decade, and we have already emphasized how decisive the following years are, in civilized terms. But we also want to stress that our relative position in the international productive fabric goes, precisely, by anticipating ourselves in the energy and digital transition. In the medium and long term, the involvement of the Basque productive tissue in an expired development model will be hampered by the capacity of the Basque productive tissue. Because we are, and will be, in a context of scarcity of resources and, at the same time, facing enormous economic and social challenges. This historical context must force this government to rethink the priorities of action and the allocation of resources on the principles of wealth generation and reduction of social inequalities, with a bold approach: apply the theories of the zero base budget to see what really brings value to social welfare from the public point of view, and focus there the allocation of resources to carry out the most effective and efficient management in this environment of alarming scarcity. According to the first and second list of Euskadi Next projects, which is what we can talk about, one of two: either they have absolutely no understanding of this, or they are prevented from making an approach that is in line with the European guidelines. Far from looking at the leading European experiences and seeing in the ecological and digital transition the opportunity for a major modernisation of our country, his Government's first reflection was what it was. Trying to pivot the bulk of the options that were opened in another round of infrastructures, with the high-speed train as a hoarder of the highest percentage of money to be obtained, the TAV, and many more projects under the same logic, to such an extent that the consultant herself they hired to evaluate what was being proposed, told them: "This does not match what is being sought in Europe." And they'll tell me that the list has changed, but we don't have access to the content either, so we're forced to talk about what we've seen. What is at stake, in short – I conclude – is to make this country the climate neutral territory with less social inequalities in Europe. And this can only be done between everyone and everyone. There are good leads: Slovenia and the circular economy; Copenhagen and carbon neutrality; New Zealand and the abandonment of GDP in budget design... The most advanced countries are already moving in those directions. You have to turn the steering wheel and take the right course, without further delay. Hau ez da ustezko iragan oparo battara itzultzeko ariketa bat. Eta berriro Alburquerqueren hitzak ekarriko ditut: "It would be, in my opinion," he says, "a mistake simply trying to recover the previous economic growth, which incorporates many of the components that explain the origins of these pandemics." Iraganaren nostalgiak ez gaitu bide onean kokatzen. Europako was bitartized, beasts zerbazi behar da: eraldaketa erabakigarri beat lehen estrofa. And I'm done. We believe that this subject has been reduced to a closed can, and it is time to open it, because it is much more than a system of government. If we are late, we are at leisure in order to establish a frame of government, to establish certain conditions, to serve the general interest, in order that the means which this people will have are carefully and democraticly handled. We demand transparency and discussion from the government, the real neighborhood. Not doing it because it's strategic error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u2	Thank you, Mr. Otero. We're going to the rest of the teams. Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is a matter of utmost interest, in which we are going to discuss critical issues for the future of the Basque Country. But it comes at a strange moment, and it will most likely die tomorrow, with the presentation of the Draft General Budgets for our Autonomous Community for next year. We come to this point, to the debate on the European funds for recovery, following the ravages caused by the health crisis. The funds, known as Next Generation, with the Councillor's yet recent statements, Mr Azpiazu, assuring in the Finance Committee that virtually nothing is known about them; that little more than vague ideas and indecretions are there. But they will allow me to question those claims. Let us assume that the PNV has been negotiating with Moncloa its particular quota with figures, if not exact, if very approximate. Moreover, I am convinced that there is enough, and very little, to hold this debate at this time, even if the governing parties are not interested, surely because they prefer closed and dark negotiations, so that no one knows exactly what they are up to. And I go into detail, blacking out two questions that are beyond doubt and that have a very difficult reply, two decisions that denote the true intentions of the PNV, of this executive: the urgency with which last August the services of Pricewaterhouse were hired for the adaptation to the European language of its document, a task in which it has never highlighted this consultant, and, on the other hand, the creation of an interdepartmental commission on 27 October and its constitution on 17 November. Thus, it is clear that the process of designing and choosing projects that can be financed from these funds, and the possible distribution of flows, is already under way. A process with two very significant characteristics: the non-participation of the economic fabric in the design of initiatives, and I am not referring only to employers, but especially to the companies themselves, the main pagans of this crisis, and the secretive, absolutely opaque way of managing this process, especially by the main party of the Basque Government. These are two very important reasons for us in Vox to be suspicious of their intentions, so that we do not see with good eyes the efforts they are making and the way in which they are doing them, when it is at stake to obtain funds that should serve to modernize the Basque economy and the Spanish economy, which should become a tractor element of the future economic model of the Basque Country. Moreover, and although you have presented it to us so far only as a statement of intentions, it is very worrying that both you and Mr Sánchez are willing to cut into 18 pieces –17 for the autonomous communities and one more for the Government of Spain – aid to modernise the economy of a country, Spain, especially plagued by the crisis of the COVID-19, a health, economic, social and even model of coexistence. If everything continues to run along the path set by the Sánchez-Iglesias tandem and accepted by its partner, the PNV, the bet will be 17 different economic models; a race whose only goal is waste and pillage. But we are going to go into the matter, which figures have already been put on the table, which, although they do not seem definitive, promise to come very close to those which finally arrive from Europe to Spain and the Basque Country. According to the latest official estimates, Spain will receive significant amounts of money in lost fund grants from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, i.e. 43,480 million euros in the next two years, and another 15,688 million euros from the year 2023. Very concrete figures that promise to be more than an estimate. And in both cases, very important amounts of money for Spain and for each of the autonomous communities. In addition, it is estimated that our country, Spain, will receive EUR 12,436 million from the recovery aid funds for cohesion and the territories of Europe for implementation in the next two years. One more proof that on the table there is much more than figures and incredulous numbers. However, as we look back, it is important to bear in mind that the Spanish Government must draw up a national plan for the use of these lost grants. A necessary step to be able to receive financial support in the amount of the above-mentioned €59.168 million under the Recovery and Resilience Facility. For this reason, the Government of the nation is preparing the Spanish Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which will have to be forwarded to the European Commission by 30 April next year. A plan with a set of investment projects and structural reforms. In the past, a draft of the plan in question and the draft of the corresponding budget plan should be forwarded to the same body. As you all know, the active participation of the Autonomous Communities is planned in the co-governance of the process, as well as in the management of the funds available, with the establishment of a sectoral conference for its implementation. In addition, the autonomous communities will also be actively involved in the management of the available funds through the signing of agreements with the relevant ministries. One more assignment from Mr. Sanchez. Companies and civil society representatives will also be able to submit projects to be funded by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, by launching three calls for projects in different formats, depending on topics and sectors. And so, I come to what pertains more directly to the Basque Country, to those inconcretions to which the finance adviser referred in committee, but which are quite concrete shortly after some official data are reviewed. To begin with, last November the Governing Council of the Basque Government approved the Berpiztu programme for economic renewal and revival and job creation in the Basque Country. Subsequently, the Euskadi Recovery and Resilience Programme, Euskadi Next, was created as a complement to the actions provided for in the Berpiztu programme. The Sustainable Growth and Employment Framework Programme, which integrates both, has a budget estimate of EUR 13.3 billion for the period 2020-2024. Of these, 9.6 billion correspond to the two main axes of economic recovery and job creation, to which EUR 3.7 billion is added in terms of guarantees for businesses and self-employed persons. The total budget, which is 9.6 billion, is distributed as follows: 7.930 million for the economic recovery axis and the remaining 1.670 million for the employment creation axis. We continue with the details of that which the Government presents us as mist, as drafts, as something diffuse and ethereal. Axis 1, economic reactivation, is deployed in six major areas; it also includes strategic lines or vectors to be developed to contribute to economic reactivation in the programme framework. And let me now give you some very precise figures, of which the percentages are particularly significant. For public infrastructure and the transformation of education and the health system, EUR 2,805 million is planned, representing 35.4% of the total. To research, innovation and digital transformation, EUR 2,490 million, 31,4 %. For energy and environmental transition, EUR 375 million, 4.7%. The funds earmarked for industries and SMEs, advanced services, creative industries and internationalisation would reach 1,284 million euros, 16.2 of the total. The food industry would have 636 million, 8.0%. Culture, the tourism industry and culture are expected to benefit from 340 million, 4.3%. Analyzing these figures and percentages, especially the percentages, the first conclusion is obvious: infrastructure projects are the ones that hold the largest volume of funds, 38% of those planned. Industry concentrates 46% of the planned, and agriculture accounts for another 18%, while the tertiary sector, the most affected by the economic crisis, will receive only 15% of these funds, i.e. less than agriculture, one third of what industry will receive. And take into account that this represents 21% of the gross domestic product of the Basque Country, and that agriculture accounts for 0.7% of this GDP, and services, excluding the public part, account for almost half of GDP, in total 47 %. Their data, which lack the most elementary logic and discriminate against one sector in relation to another – precisely, which is experiencing a more difficult and delicate moment – lead us to consider that you are not on the right path. The main objective of the Next Generation recovery fund is to address the economic and social consequences of the COVID-19 crisis, and it is clear that neither the high-speed train, nor the south-rail variant, nor the tunnel between the two margins of the Bilbao ria have suffered in a special way, particularly significantly, the crisis resulting from the pandemic. And in this same vein, allow me to comment on the territorial distribution of the major infrastructure works that are intended to be financed, practically all of which are planned in the province of Bizkaia, leaving for other times many of which must be carried out in Álava and Gipuzkoa. It is the responsibility of this Government to ensure territorial equity in the distribution of aid, also in the development of projects, because the crisis has plagued each and every one of the Basque provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u4	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, who represents the Basque Groups of Populary-Ciudadans.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of the Bureau, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. The plenary that brings us together, the reason that brings us together here today, in this Basque Parliament, is a full monograph dedicated to defining the strategic orientation and priority projects of the Basque Autonomous Community within the framework of the European funds for recovery, known and supported projects in what will be the Next Generation Europe fund. Firstly, what I would like to say from this rostrum is that today is a day to claim the European project, the validity of the European project. There are some parties sitting here who do not believe, or at least have shown not to believe in the European project – actions, omissions, and, above all, the integration they have in the different groups that make up the European Parliament. Look, Europe has saved Spain on many occasions. He saved her with the Feders, with the cohesion funds. It saved it by providing it with a framework of economic and institutional stability. It has been saved again with its actions in the context of the recent economic and financial crisis that has taken place, and is now saving it again; not only with these kinds of initiatives that we will now develop in depth, but, above all, because Europe is today the brake on the populist temptations of many governments, among them, we must also say, the Spanish Government. Once again, there is also evidence of the need for greater and better economic governance at European level, based on coordination, transparency, solidarity and the vision for the future. Europe is our present and our future, but Europe is not and cannot be an automatic cashier. The European funds which are the subject of this debate have to be conditioned – and are, in fact, conditioned – on the implementation of a series of structural reforms; major structural reforms at national and autonomous level. We have been hearing in this Parliament for some time now about the way in which the funds are going to be spent, the way in which projects are going to be selected, etc. That is good, but this debate must also be accompanied by the debate on reforms, which are very important structural reforms to be carried out at national level and also at the autonomous level. Because there is one issue that seems to be forgotten many times by some groups in this House, and it is that Euskadi benefits from European integration, of course, and benefits from membership of the European Union, because Spain is a member of the European Union. And here, too, there is a great need to demand the elements of coordination between national governments and, in this case, also regional governments. These European funds have in particular to be financed through specific European borrowing procedures, which will be a debt that will have to be paid by the next generation. It is a debt that will have to pay the next generation, and that is why this, the current one, we have the responsibility to carry out the necessary reforms to ensure that that generation, that next generation, can enjoy the well-being that we too have enjoyed. What's the context? So look, the European mechanism, which I imagine will then be explained to us by the Council when the Government takes the floor, but essentially this aid mechanism is made up of three fundamental elements: there is a programme which is the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism; there is another more specific programme which is also endowed with a series of loans and others, bonuses, transfer bases... and there is another programme aimed at strengthening some of the programmes in Budget 21-27. Because one issue has to be taken into account, and it is that in the European framework the budgetary question is important, because it is always developed in multiannual frameworks. That is to say, the budgetary forecasting framework at European level is always multi-annual, and this is an issue that we have to take into account, because this multi-annual planning, in several years, is the basis on which all projects and actions must be developed at national level. Look, synthetically: how does this mechanism work? A recovery and resilience plan must be presented. This plan must also be aligned with general criteria, which we know more or less, but also with the specific criteria set out in the European Semester and the Green Digital Agenda. It must not be forgotten that Europe is a power, an international entity, which has defended and defends as no one else the aspect of the transition to new energies, and above all the green aspect, which is part of what is understood as the European economic model, the social market economy and the Ordolibelism itself, of which in this House it is seen that perhaps some groups have not gone much further in their analysis, but that is the economic system that exists in the European Union. And it could not otherwise be that the Union was fully committed to the digital and, above all, green aspect. Countries have sent a first version of their projects on 15 October, and then have to send the final version on 30 April. We're meeting right now. We are at a time when specific projects need to be defined. In the national case, it seems that it has been or is going to be directly the Moncloa office, the President of the Government or his person, who is going to choose directly or select what these projects are, and the Autonomous Communities have developed different procedures, and this is a criticism that I would like to make clear in this forum: the Autonomous Communities have developed different procedures for selecting the projects. There are autonomous communities that, from the very beginning, established or had a specific commission either in parliamentary and other places, to help design a methodology, to select which projects were finally to be chosen. That's one thing we haven't done in Euskadi, the counselor himself recognized him the other day in his appearance. After this, the Commission, which will evaluate the projects, will carry out an evaluation process, because we forget about this. This is not simply a financing for the financing of current expenditure. There's going to be an evaluation here. And only projects that are positively evaluated will have funding, which will be distributed by the European Commission, as the objectives are met. And the European Commission can suspend the transfer, it can suspend the transfer of more funding, in cases of deficiencies in implementation or even in cases of non-compliance with tax rules, the issue of the rule of expenditure, debt, etc., or also in alleged non-compliance with deficiencies in what is called the rule of law. All these reforms, which is another very important issue, must be implemented within a maximum of four years of approval, and investment is allowed, as you know, up to seven years. Therefore, that is the timetable with which we have to understand each other. In this context, Spain will be the second country to receive the most money, just after Italy which, with a relatively similar amount, will be the country to receive the most money. There will be a number of transfers that will be direct from the Union. And then there will be other amounts that will be in the form of loans. In total, about 140 billion, as you know, is a figure that is being handled. The important thing about this figure and what we all have to take into account is this: look, the money that comes from Europe cannot be money that only pays or that pays for current expenditure and structural expenditure. That is, what needs to be done is to finance specific projects, tractor projects, which are often called, projects which contribute to the dynamism of the economy, which also contribute to such important reforms, such important structural reforms which, for so long in Spain, have always been stopped and have never been a good time. Well, now is the time to carry out those reforms. On this point we must say that the European Commission has given us a number of indications. What are we asked from Europe? What does the European Semester ask of us? Well, look, it's very important to maintain control over expenditure growth. And here there are a number of issues that are not the competence of this Parliament, but which need to be made clear: compliance with tax rules perhaps in the autonomic sphere, but pension reform, better governance in public procurement, investment in innovation and energy transition, ensuring market unity... In Spain we do everything we can to avoid market unity. We have always shown this, when a law on market unity is passed, every effort is also made to prevent this law from being effective. The so-called single licensing law, which was, by the way, appealed by the Basque Government and which, finally, the Constitutional made an interpretation in line with the wishes, in this case, of the Basque Government, but which, in any case, has been contrary to what is market unity as such. Finally, the issue of improving social services and employment is also very important. The improvement of social and employment services, including employment services as such – I believe this is an issue that has room for improvement in the Basque area – the establishment of a single contract, recruitment incentive programmes, support for families, reduction of school drop-out, harmonization of social services, etc., etc. As I said, it is time to carry out the reforms. Also, as one of the founding fathers of the European Union, Jean Monnet, said, who surely knows all of you, people only accept change when they are resigned by necessity. And they only see need in times of crisis. Well, well, this is the crisis and this is the time for change. What reforms should we implement? What reforms should Spain's money be spent on? And what reforms should our Autonomous Community also spend money on? First, measures should be taken to create quality jobs for the digital age. Secondly, Spain and the Spanish regions and the autonomous communities should be transformed into a world reference in education; here, too, we have room for improvement. The ecological transition must also be used, thirdly, to lead the green economy. Return our health to its position of global leadership, and have an effective and transparent digital administration. This is where we should invest, and I say invest, that money that is going to come from the European Union. And Spain does not go in the right direction and, so far, Euskadi does not give the impression of going in the right direction either. Why don't you go in a good direction? First of all, because there's no plan. The Government, the national government in this case, has included European funds in its budgets. It is true that the Basque Government, as the Councillor told us, has not included them in the budget, but it is true that, in order to discuss this issue, we would also have to analyse the budget in depth. That is why it is true that in the coming weeks, when the various members present the budget headings in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, we will have the opportunity to develop these aspects. Secondly, because there are no experts at the national level either. And in the area of Euskadi, there is also a criticism in this regard, the management model is based on participatory, informal circles, which will discuss proposals, etc., negotiations with autonomous governments... This does not select projects that are going to be competitive, that are going to be tractors, that are going to be really efficient and that are going to carry out or promote the necessary reforms that this country needs. The extreme politicization of this whole process must be highlighted. Politicisation, because the President of the Government has already said that he is going to take over, the proposals that are also made by some groups in this House are in the same direction. Politization does, but in this case of mine, not yours, but mine. What we are defending is an alternative model, which is the European model, which is to decide on projects in accordance with open, competitive procedures, in which it is demonstrated, with transparency, which are the best. These funds, you have to remember, are going to be or are going to be a large amount of funds, lots of funds, to spend fast. And Spain here has been demonstrating – in the case of Euskadi a little more attenuatedly, but it is also a part of this singularity – that Spain is one of the countries that later spends the European funds. It takes quite a while to spend them, always at the last hour and always at the last hour with projects or in a way that is too fast, and that then, sometimes, they also escape certain controls, at least parliamentary ones. What can't be is that this becomes another Zapatero E Plan. A design, a control and, above all, a follow-up of the implementation of these projects must be carried out. What is the situation we have specifically in Euskadi? Now look, since these reconstruction funds began to be discussed, because the Basque Government was asked, in many ways and by many groups in the House, to establish a criterion that would state how they were going to be spent, these funds were going to be used in Euskadi. The Government has resisted convincing explanations. First it was said that Parliament was dissolved, therefore, you will see, there we have a Permanent Chamber which could very well have done the times, which is what it has to do, and which is what is statutory and constitutionally, a representation of the House in this regard for urgent matters while Parliament is dissolved. After this, a consultant was commissioned, through a minor contract, in September 2020, a list of possible projects that we do not even know what will remain in. We don't know what it's gonna be either. These projects would be sent to the Spanish Government for inclusion or possible inclusion in a list of projects that could then, or could not, be supported by European funding. Finally, at last week's appearance in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, Councillor Azpiazu, Don Pedro María, here present with us, did not give much explanation about the method or the systematic method of choosing projects. God's strokes are general. He gave us good words, that must be acknowledged, but he either did not give or did not highlight what the specific methodology is going to be. I would remind you here, in this House, of the criticisms I made in the committee by my group and in my personal capacity, and it is the lack of a committee specialised in this Parliament that controls the implementation of the funds, the lack of a methodology for selecting projects, the lack of a list or a timetable for specific reforms, which are what Europe is demanding of us. We will discuss this later next week in this Parliament in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, but the budget that it is going to send us must also be in line with a specific timetable for reforms. I'm going to insist on this again. It is a budget, as we have learned from the media, with significant increases. We have already exceeded 12 billion – which, by the way, almost 1 billion are already earmarked for debt amortization. This is a significant increase, but there is still a lack of explanation. And above all, we will already comment on this, I insist, but it also needs to be realistic budgets, because the growth forecasts that the Basque Government is managing are a little far from those that are making both national public authorities and other authorities or other private institutions. What conclusions can we draw from this situation? What conclusions can be drawn on this whole process? In a constructive way, but we have to make things clear. Firstly, the actions of the Spanish Government and the actions of the autonomous governments, which in this case act, at least politically, with the Spanish Government, which is politically related to them, that is, there is a communication relationship between the autonomous governments and the national government, and in our particular case, they are partners of government, because there is a consensus, it is recognized that there is a consensus with which they are European priorities. What happens is that one thing is that there is a tune, so to speak, of mouth, so in general terms, that we all agree in a greener economy, in digitization, sustainable infrastructures, etc., but another thing is to see black on white. It is very important to bear in mind that these funds are not for us. These are the funds of the next generation. These are the funds that are going to come to us to manage, for the next generation. Hence the responsibility of those here today to be, in this case, the best possible Parliament, to be the best possible government, to ensure the future of society. Secondly, what absolutely stands out is the absolute lack of a timetable, a list of the structural reforms that are so necessary in our country, in Spain, and which can also be and would logically benefit Euskadi. The plan which the Government has sent to Brussels does not mention the changes that Spain needs, making it much simpler, in terms of education, employment, innovation, demographic challenges, the health system or the welfare state. This is a historic opportunity, the one we have here now. It is a historic opportunity to make the essential reforms that lay the foundation for solid and sustainable growth over time. However, the plan that the national Government has sent, and we therefore understand that according to the Autonomous Communities and here according to the Basque Government, the truth is that it is intended to continue to finance the current expenditure. Not only by financing current expenditure, but the Spanish Government has included revenue forecasts for these funds directly in the budgets. Man, this is far from being, I believe, a reasonable and, above all, efficient management of the funds. There is a risk – I hope to be wrong, but unfortunately, in this I am not mistaken – there is a certain risk that these investments will end up becoming structural expenditure, permanent expenditure, recurrent expenditure, without the necessary reforms being made. Thirdly, it should also be stressed that, so far, the way in which our funds are being managed, because we do not yet have them, but this process aimed at receiving these funds, has been a politicized expenditure and without control mechanisms. This is another of the deep shortcomings of the plan, which is the very great political control, the very great political control of the funds and that there is no, that there is no independent agency that oversees and evaluates these projects and these expenses. It happened to us before when tax reforms had to be made. It has already happened to us the last time with the update in Spain of our tax system, which the European Commission has forced Spain to create an independent authority, which you already know, is Airef. It looks like they're going to force us again, hopefully they're going to force us, because it's going to be the way to have a truly independent, transparent authority that controls these expenses and projects properly. That excessive centralization is a matter of great concern. On the one hand, the national government is talking about that famous co-governance, nor do I understand very well what it means, but then, yes, the last political decision rests, as I think he himself has said, in his person. High-level forums that have been announced have no real capacity to influence decisions, and will not be composed of experts, but sectoral representatives. There is nothing against sectoral representatives, of course, sending their proposals and reporting and so on, but the most efficient way of spending public money has to be expert advice. Another serious problem that Spain has and that the Spanish administrations are having is the generation of bottlenecks in the absorption of these funds; that is, the lack of capacity to spend efficiently; it always ends up spending almost everything in the end. The execution processes go very little by little and already in the end, when you are told that you either spend it or return it, they produce macroprojects at the last hour, big expenses without having thought about it, without having meditated on it. Now we're in time to think about it, now we're in time to design it properly. Fourthly, it should be pointed out that the figures given by the Government, the Spanish Government – the Basque Government, I understand that it is also in expectation of this, but you have a good relationship with Madrid, you are partners –, those figures are quite unbelievable. I say that this is not credible because of the direct inclusion of some 27 billion in the next budgets, it is not clear that this is a possibility and, above all, it is far from what is the essence of this type of projects that are financed, conditioned on the achievement of a number of objectives apart from what is ordinary expenditure. Secondly, the government – and in this the Basque Government also has its share of blame – the government has presented a very unrealistic deficit estimate, and I repeat again, the Basque Government also has a deficit forecast which, man, are its own, have its own methodology, the Airef has already asked for clarifications, but neither the Airef nor other institutions – BBVA Research or the Kutxa Laboratory itself, and so on, other institutions – do not raise growth, in this case, as high as the one you raise, and the issue of the deficit because it is also an issue to be looked at. In these cases we must go ahead with the truth and, above all, we must establish realistic estimates. And finally, well, and this especially at the national level, but I wouldn't be surprised if it happened soon, because these promises that are suddenly going to be created don't know how many jobs, one million, 800,000 jobs, it doesn't seem like this is the way to manage these kinds of issues, either, does it? Finally, it must be borne in mind that these funds also include the rule of law clause; that is, that the states undertake to respect the essence of what are the foundations of the rule of law in their field, and here it is very important that we remember, that we should bear in mind that Spain has already received some earshake from European institutions on how to select the General Council of the Judiciary, the judges, and this is also an issue on which we must be serious. In short, what is the situation, and above all, what are the proposals that we make in a constructive way, I insist, but telling the truth and above all being honest with everyone. First of all, the absolute lack of transparency at all times in this whole process, there has been obscurantism from the beginning to the situation in which we are now, and I fear that to the end. There has been a lack of cooperation with this Parliament in general. It is true that the Government has a comfortable majority which clearly allows it to approve its proposals with comfort and so on, but man, that cannot mean that it will end up being curtailed, that it will end up affecting the powers of this House to exercise its function of control and control of the Government. There is a very important lack of a list and a timetable of reforms applied to our Community, our Autonomous Community; that is, what reforms the Government intends to do. We are, on the one hand, discussing the European funds; on the other hand, next week we will start with the budget and then we have a legislative timetable. Man, it is true, we must also have a calm, serious debate, and above all by analysing those reforms that are necessary, not only because they have to be presented together with the funding proposals, but also because, I insist, this is our opportunity, probably the last, to carry out these reforms that are so much needed. There is also a lack of a specialized commission and an independent agency to monitor the achievement of the objectives, the commitments to be made and the implementation of the projects. We must remember - and this is very important - that they are projects for four years and the execution of the investment is a little bit more, up to seven years; therefore, it will be a lot of money to be executed in a relatively short period. It is also missing, apart from all this, I believe that a clear will to be transparent. The problem with being transparent, what is it?, because you have to explain and then you are prey to your words and your initial objectives, and it is logical for the opposition to ask for transparency, and well, it is not that it is understandable, the government tends to be the least transparent it can, but it needs to be demanded, and we demand it here at parliamentary level, that it be as transparent as possible on this issue, because it is neither a money of this government nor a project of this government, it is a project of the whole society and it is going to be for the benefit and the future of society in the long term. What are the proposals that we are going to present to this Parliament, and that we will then have the opportunity to discuss perhaps more calmly? Firstly, a demand for the European project. The demand for the European project and the demand for the European model. What is the European model? The European model, above all, is a model of democratic management with coordination between all administrations: member states, autonomous communities, European institutions... And, above all, it is a model based on rationality; based on data, on reports, on transparency. That is the European model. Secondly, it should also be stressed, or we stress, that it is very important to reaffirm the need for collaboration with the central Government and with the governments of other autonomous communities. This seems to have become a career in each autonomous community, including the central government, which always plays with advantage: to see what we can get out, what about mine, how about... And here, for the typical tensions that are occurring between the main group that supports the Government, and then the opposition group, will occur, or will occur. To see who is – in this case EH Bildu – to see who is the best achiever in Madrid. Boy, what this is about is that they're the best projects. Above all, let them be projects that are carried out not only in coordination with the central government, but with other autonomous communities in our environment: Castilla y León, La Rioja, Cantabria, Navarra, etc. We, too, are going to propose to this House that a resolution be adopted to ensure that the Government undertakes to appear regularly, and to be possible every month, in the relevant committee, which may be economic or may be a specific one, but above all, an appearance with data, with papers, to discuss how the implementation of these projects is going and what the status of the situation is. And finally, we will also propose the creation of a specialized body, not indefinite, but rather a specialized body for eight years, a little more than the duration of the implementation of these projects, so that it will independently, autonomously, with experience, monitor the implementation of these projects with the utmost transparency. That's our position. And then we'll have the opportunity to develop it in successive shifts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u6	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, Mrs. Podemos-IU has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Well, I believe that we are all aware that we are not facing one more crisis, one more simple crisis, but it is one – another, yes – but one of the multiples to which we are subjected by the innate cycles to the capitalist system. This crisis, which is triggered by unprecedented virulence, has as a cause and as a consequence also a civilizational model that stumbles over its own contradictions, too long ago. We sailed already, before, before the COVID-19, with an uncertain course, framed by the increasingly frequent – and aggressive, by the way – financial crises and their terrible socio-economic consequences. It is an ongoing ecocide, which puts life at risk on planet Earth, and a schizophrenic economic system that shifts between the unceasing growth of the production of superfluous goods and the artificial production of scarcity, while the reproduction of life, the center of human life, has been invisible, devalued and confined to the realm of households. Life, which has been sustained over the bodies of millions of women who, without any recognition at home, suffering the most precarious face of the labour market, have cared for us. María Eugenia Rodríguez, our colleague Palop's funds, to enable us to change the course we need, explains what he has fought so hard: "Pandemism has forced us to understand that health crisis, ecological catastrophes, structural differences, or the modification of our production system have not the dimensions of national habits. The great decisions we are waiting for cannot be reduced to zero summing up, in which the profits and losses of each country will be balanced, unless we believe in a long-sighted Europe, which would be connected with a project beyond the minimum necessary to survive." From our group, as well as the representation of the Parliament of Europe, and also in the Ministrys of the Coalical Government, where the Presidents are, we have done everything in our power to make it clear that this crisis cannot be resisted in the same way as it was at the crisis in 2008. For there is no European project, and we must be assured that there is no European project, no future to Europe if it is not founded on association. The end of Austericitius, therefore, is an experience, we demand it. And we demand also the end of the citadel of Europe, which systematically destroys human rights. We must demand it. In the last decade the cares of the state of nations, and the commerce of the right of Europe, have produced a deep balance and instability of society, and public services have become weakened and weakened, more and more. We've lost some decades of conquered rights, and the survival and competition of the conditions of life have set the feeling against Europe as the supreme social value, and the extreme nationalism area has been favored. Thus, in this context, and the establishment of this fund, as well as its transformative spirit, is in itself a further achievement, if any, compared to the response that the institutions of the European Union have given to the latest crisis. Because it is the recognition of the historical, multifactorial and profound dimension of this crisis, as well as the recognition of the mistakes made in the last decade. Errors, of course, that here too, from this Government, were committed within an ideological framework in which this Basque Government has always felt comfortable too. It is economic liberalism, letting do, letting do. Well, letting do, letting do, has brought us here, where we are. Emergencies overlap, it's no longer just social, it's also environmental. Ten years of dismantling social services, health and education, are many years. Our society is now more unequal and is severely fractured. We in the European Union would have to ask for more, yes, but we ourselves as responsible, as political leaders for popular expression in Basque, must demand much more of ourselves. This is what the whole of Basque society demands of us. We can't waste our chance of this mancompulous effort, which is the root of the next generation. It's an historic effort, it's the first time such a solid initiative is accepted. In order to improve the lives of the people, we can give them a quantum leap through investments, and enable us to make investments which are now indistinguishable changes of structure. Therefore we must maintain that the use of it, in the use of these funds, and in employment, the struggle against social differences, the construction of social society, the protection and development of human rights, and the transition of our production and the energy model, will always be present at all times. We cannot continue to do the same policy that has brought us here, of course, neither in content nor in forms. We also come to this plenary to remember that it is our duty, that of this House, to ensure that our powers are used to regain the ambition of the original proposal of the multiannual financial framework, before the fall in the European Council. And this can be done by designing the necessary mechanisms for reconstruction programmes and projects to go hand in hand with guarantees of respect for fundamental rights and ambitious climate criteria, to go hand in hand with the commitment to address, once and for all, the creation of a model of care, also, and of social protection for all people who guarantee lives that deserve the joy of being lived. And this is mainly because of the strengthening of public services, and because of control, and because of the fierce opposition to any attempt to market the rights that guarantee us in the sustainability of our lives. And what could compromise this historic opportunity? Well, we believe that M. M.M., and especially the Jelt Party, the advance attitude, and the attitude and trial of Europe, risks the spirit of the recovery and resilence of Europe, both in form and in essence. This process shows that the Government does not possess a platform of desire or capacity, a process, or a conversation, to produce the power and invention of the citizens of this country, in order to be able to determine the future of our land and its inhabitants in a great measure. We, our team, would like to discuss what project and development plan is needed from Euskka to face our civilist challenge. It must be remembered that behind parties there are several organizations and collective institutions of organized civil society, which have great power to suggest. And it is a pity that it is so difficult to treat the subject with the severity it deserves, if the Government does not allow it to be able to do so, in order to give these groups its own. In the first place, we believe that the public sector should serve as a coincidence in the preparation of strategic services, education, love, and education, to adjust its duties, and to develop a new axis of well-being. This, a long time ago, is something we've been saying: Public watch system. Besides, it belongs to the public sector, to drive from a state of strategic planning and interventional policy to disorganise the economy, to produce pure energy, and generally from a highly contagious metabolism to another life which is compatible with all the world's plans. So we reiterate ourselves in this idea: the public sector not only creates wealth, but creates jobs of quality and vital stability, productive investment, research and development, community ties, and it is the only area that has the capacity to lead the structural transformation that will allow us to recover from the enormous social, economic and health trauma that we have experienced this year, to walk towards a society that is more just and environmentally sustainable. We recognize the complexity of implementing these large budget lines that need to be designed and that need to be implemented on a time horizon, which is also very limited. It is not easy, and that is why the necessary public devices must be created to capitalize on this opportunity and change course. Of course, if the challenge is capital, we have to live up to it, and what we are faced with so far is nothing more than to continue with the same costume of change. It's the famous greenwashing. He continues to bet on leaving the whole initiative to the private sector; rather, to the big capital. So many years abandoned to neoliberal inertias that it now seems that it is not able to jointly and democratically design a country plan for the future. The model they have implanted has proved fragile and unstable, has shown their cracks when they hit us with the virus. We cannot delegate responsibility for recovery again to the large multinationals, to foreign capital. We already know this formula, it has already left us with a chaotic and eco-friendly economy, with loss of industrial fabric, deterioration of the quality of employment and growing inequality. That's when we said it and we repeat it again today. It may be said that you are not thinking of a paradigma change, because you do not form the ideas of the great and small minds of this people, all together. And please don't let us make up our minds to determine the future of certain generations in four offices, lest we fall into this error. Europe, if we think now about the environmental issue, we can say that Europe has stepped on the accelerator in the fight against climate change and the energy transition, on the bet of renewable energy and on self-consumption. Let us look at what we are doing here: in Euskadi we continue with the hand brake, delaying the end of fossil fuels, investing public money in gas, avoiding taxes on diesel and encouraging large solar or wind power plants in the hands of the energy oligopoly, instead of promoting self-consumption and energy sovereignty. Even in the construction of new housing we want to submit to the dependence of gas, and this makes no sense, this is something that must end. In Europe, new housing and rehabilitation are always geared towards total electrification and gas decommissioning. Europe is accelerating its commitment to innovation and digitalisation. France and Belgium are making progress in the use of the internet of things or big data for environmental control. Here, in Euskadi, we continue with an environmental administration that continues to control and monitor the polluting industries only through inspectors, a few inspectors totally devoid, in addition, of the tools of a 21st century European State, which has to go on site for any inspection work. Lack of real-time control and monitoring of data. Of the data, as can be concentration of emissions, discharges, tonnes and type of waste; that is, what is actually happening in our polluting industries is what ends up then causing serious breaches. We have not yet had, we have not been given an answer as to how what happened in Zaldibar could have happened. Nor do we have solutions, we have not been given solutions in relation to the polluting emissions of the Zubieta incinerator, or of the industries of Durango or Erandio – which yesterday the citizens of Erandio appeared in the committee of this Parliament. Or, lastly, the lack of control and traceability of hazardous industrial waste exported to Libya in order to save the costs of treatment. The lack of control over what is happening to the polluting industries in Euskadi is unacceptable. Europe also hastens to recalculation, recalculation, and recovery of materials. Euskadin, on the contrary, we continue to invest in the worst possible solutions and polluters-that is to say, garbage and crematories, with the problems of social and environmental decay. We are also concerned with the influence which the Eucataian party has on agriculture, cattle, woods, and hunting, and on protected areas of nature, and on biodycism, especially because of the neglect which the Jest Party restores and protects bidibertsity. The D.A. of A.A.'s has been struck by him in the course of this week, and he has begun investigations about how a superior director in the High Court of Biscai Fordundu has forged documents in order not to punish two hunters. We don't understand the way Europe's back in the energy and environmental area, and on this side we'll be able to win the bet for clean and retractable energy, to control polluted corporations, to restore the population of debris and wastes. In other words, there is a risk that once again the recipes we put in place for social reconstruction will be thought of from wrong points of departure, or without entering, that it will not enter into the structures that are making it difficult for all the people of this country to day-to-day. We say the day to day because certainly very few people, very few people will have experienced what it is like to sit on the chairs of the Kutxabank boards of directors, for example, at the top of the Iberdrola Tower. But all the people here have experienced disease, dependence, or at some point in our lives we have experienced it or we will experience it. And, of course, of course, all the women in this House also have an account linked to our differential fact, in this matter I say, by the fact that they are women. At the beginning of Pandemia, it seemed as if the pandemies were becoming equal to us, because no one was exempt from being ill, because the virus does not distract us. And we found out that's not true. Virus understands weakened medical systems, understands very well about the housing and our conditions of life. He understands carefully the standards of care which had been vetted and privatized. Whether we've got a chance to make a specialty or not, he doesn't understand that. And the danger that a man takes upon himself, if he can't reconcile it, because he can't look after it at the end of the month, and he can understand it perfectly well. Virus understands well about class, genus, etynia, all these things. He understands the state of administration we're in. He understands whether we have or not our neighborhood helps and social networks. He understands a hundred of our community as well as he has disappeared. He understands at age very well about damage. We're not all hit the same thing, that's the truth. That is why we are also concerned that, when it comes to the truth, we should not make transformative bets that place care, the defence of social rights, the common goods, in short, the construction of the fourth pillar of our welfare State, at the centre of the process of economic and social reconstruction in the coming months. We are concerned, because most of the debates that we have had in this House, as far as the legislature is concerned, about the situation of social services, about the situation of job insecurity faced by women workers in the care sector, the answers are always the same. Excessive praise for public-private alliances and the refusal to open spaces of deep reflection and collective form. We continue to rely on the inertia of the care provided from the private sphere, and we settle for patching up the crisis in the global care chain, because we prefer to manage poverty and social exclusion. We prefer to manage it rather than anticipate the surveys that are already talking about widening the social gap in Euskadi, even before the pandemic. In this way, we are an Euskadi with a Unit Law that, for example, recognizes that people are preferably assisted by a service versus a benefit. But, at the same time, we are the territory that distributes the most money and has the least services. Giving money – which means, in practice, perpetuating gender roles – giving money for those who have traditionally taken care of dependent people and doing so at the expense of insecure care. From the central government we have managed, at least, to secure 8,988 million for the transit to a care economy. In the Basque initial list, launched by the Basque Government, could you point out to me only one with the aim of strengthening the care system in Basque? He's not here. We are clear that in our group we are clear that it is a central axis that should guide the debate today in this House. And it is to give definitive folder to the criminalizing approaches to poverty, or to legitimize the idea that protection is not enough for all people, because the economy does not give, because it does not give to protect everyone. These approaches are unfair and immoral in many respects. Our bet is on the use of these funds in investments that reverse the proliferation of these discourses, taking advantage of the fear and insecurity generated by pandemics like the one we are living in. Because that, that does mean putting lives in the center and economy at the service of life, not the other way around. Let us also demonstrate, at this time, that the mainstreaming of gender equality, the inclusion of the best interests of the child and the protection of children, protection from all expressions of violence are driving the main investments that we are going to make in the future. By linking it to another subject, it is plain that the plan of reconstructing the economy after the pandema requires a more planned economic model. We have confirmed that the 40-year-old estate of neoliberalism is a chaotic economy, a great process of deinciliation, a loss of industrial tissue, with the rate of the quality of employment, which is more and more and more historically small, if we compare it with the pre-determination of the '80s'. This model is fragile and unstable, and its cracks have also proved it well when we were hit by a pandemy. We think we have to make a big bet, first of all, that they're essential to life and that they've been damaged by the cut-ups to strengthen the sectors they've shown most. We believe that a supported employment program, connected with health, education, and age, should, for instance, make investments in suitable infrastructure. On the other hand, and it is also something that we do not have to lose sight of, bets on major projects leave aside the possibility of delving into other smaller projects, perhaps less spectacular but with a more immediate impact on people's well-being, on reducing emissions and on greater job creation capacity. We can cite some, such as improving the accessibility and sustainability of the housing stock, strong bets on public transport and improving the care services of the dependent population. The industrial crisis of the last four decades is an unequivocal process and, only during the last crisis, the industry increased from 29% of Basque GDP to a fall, to less than 20% in 2019. And the truth is, he's still in a free fall. In the same period, 60,000 jobs have been destroyed. And recent cases of non-management by the Basque Government show that inaction and employer defence are a rule of action. It can be said that the PNV has abandoned the industrial sector and industrial conversion policies. He's put them aside. Instead, it is betting on a model of internationalization, financialization, digitization and the economy of services more to the American, yielding all the protagonistism to the international private capital that dictates the arena in which we play and also mistakes what we must do. There's no alternative. I mean, we have to rethink the Euscadian production model, and for that purpose we need to encourage the company game that seeks the good of all. Let us give them a chance to get out of their logic, and fill out the interests of the community and the workers. I'm digitalizing data in our own country, creating energy, creating new care models, and doing for the middle and small business director working in social society. To search through public research, colactivating benefits, and not limiting those European funds to divide and exchange services between companies. To finish, we're in this monographic meeting today and the opposition must have been asked for. And the points that maintain the government have made it clear that they are not very favorable to each other's ability to understand each other. Because of the evaluation proposition, in this consultation of the resolution wards, they said they'd be sent to us today. And that shows there's no time to negotiate, to talk about anything. It's too late. As a further example of this parliamentary roll, which has only softened a little in the last month, by chance, also at the door of the presentation of the draft budgets for the 21st, which we will receive tomorrow in this Parliament. But let's not be fooled. I said it the other day: facts are love. They don't seem to want to negotiate anything substantive. At the time of truth, when the millions of Europe arrive, all the doors and all the windows are closed, and just call – I say, someone will call, their friends, I don't know if Iberdrola, Petronor, of the companies they are – to see how these funds are distributed. They boast of practicing open government, of transparency, participation, collaboration, but, in this case, transparency has been practiced only by the media, by filtering the list of projects that you had prepared, as usual, in the offices. And in this case, as in so many others, participation is given only for large companies, I would say. In this case, the collaboration has not counted on any instance today, here and now. And for us, from Elkarrekin Podemos-IU, we have the republican values inscribed in our DNA. We firmly believe in democratic institutions. That is why, despite the attitude of the Government and the groups that support it, we have worked on a wide range of motions for resolutions, setting out the elements that I have just outlined. There are 66 proposals aimed at solving the problems of Basque society in terms of employment, housing, equality or social policies, as well as strengthening the health system, industrial reconstruction and energy transition. Among others, in this way we present proposals for a transformation of the Basque model of care, a plan to digitize Basque public education that reduces the digital divide, a plan for the continuity of businesses in crisis, new housing and rehabilitation projects, and the bet on green hydrogen as well. But it is just as important as it is how things are done; for in the management of European funds we are still in time to correct obscurity, one-sidedness, and the lack of social participation. In order to do this, we exhibit a series of propositions which constitute a system for controlling and continuing the maintenance of these funds, co-ordinated with all democratic guarantees and with the system of state, in co-operate with the participation of society and with all political forces. In like manner, we propose to transfer a large portion of funds to the councils, to make them do it directly, to assure them that the solutions will reach all the parts of our territory. After all, and now I'm done, ladies and gentlemen, we came here today to give and offer our view of this instrument which is so important to restore our society, and which has the violent influence of a pandemonade.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u10	Your time is up. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Aduza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u11	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Chief of Investigation, Congressmen, good morning to all of you. We're celebrating this monographic discussion last week after the Economics Departmental Committee has made a statement to report the steps that were made in the history of Euskdi the New Program. As you know, the Council of Government will accept the first version of that program on December 29th. And from that point on, we will continue a long and profound discussion about these helps. And I'm glad it's like that. Although some people doubt, I'm glad that such a project is a solid process of discussion, because we have a great deal at stake and need a share of all for success. All of us, the most different organization, the Euskion, the smiths, the councils, the government and opposition, the corporations, the unions, the socialists. Next project is an historic opportunity to build a new future. And we want that future to be more permanent, more digital, identical. This investment plan allows us to go on with those reforms we have so often alluded to: climate change, digitalization... We've known challenges long ago, but the time for them never came. Well, the time has come. The right path, the direction we're about to define now. And we must be ambitious that the funds of Europe may reach the proper place. It's everybody's responsibility to figure it out in this way. Because European recovery funds are a great opportunity for the transformation of our economy, which will be able to move towards a more sustainable, circular, decarbonised model. A digital transformation also to get on the train of this fourth industrial revolution that we still have pending in Euskadi. But it must also be an opportunity to promote a profound social transformation, because if we do it right, if we do it right in the projects, if we think big about the Euskadi that we want for the next decades and not what is right for me in the next elections, we will be able to push reforms that are going to mean not only a change in our economic model, but also in the collective consciousness. We are talking about moving towards a robust and professionalized care economy, which has proved to be so necessary at this time; tackling inequalities in the labour market, with a special focus on young people; promoting more sustainable urban development for the most vulnerable groups; strengthening quality public education. It is not a question of watering the economy with millions of resources, as if it were a manna fallen from the sky, but of taking advantage of the step taken by Europe to push reforms that we had pending before this crisis and that the coronavirus has become unreplaceable. This investment plan will allow us to make those transitions that we have been pointing out for a long time, that we knew we had to do, but that we did not finish putting in place, because the urgency always preceded what was necessary. Well, excuses are over. This new Marshall plan, as defined by President Pedro Sánchez, will make the current situation of weakness an engine of change. Those of us who grew up in the 80s and 90s, in the heat of European integration, can only remember the impact of the European cohesion funds, which are fundamental to the economic development of Spain and also of Euskadi, at a time when it was facing the ravages of conversion. Today, as at the time, Europe is back in motion with an unprecedented mobilization of resources: EUR 140 billion over the next six years, which leaves that in anecdotal. And that is why I want my first thought to highlight this new milestone for European construction. For this we wanted the European Union, for this it is precisely Europe, not the Europe of black men, not the Europe of austerity, but the Europe of equitable progress, equality and modernity. These funds make a substantial difference as to how we respond to the 2008 crisis, because, for the first time, the European Commission is in debt to finance programmes and not funds; for the first time, the European Union is making a joint debt plan to deal with investments. And this is a historical thing, although sometimes, by using that term, we run the risk of devaluing it, but I think we should not lose sight of the importance of this moment. And I would like to highlight the important role that the Government of Pedro Sánchez has played in all of this. Because the Socialist Government has been at the head of the initiatives launched at European level in recent months to carry out this project, which, after hard negotiations and last week's overcoming the last hurdle that was the veto of Hungary and Poland, is finally going to come true. And it does so, in its translation into Spain, with a recovery, transformation and resilience plan that, according to government estimates, will boost economic growth above 2% of our gross domestic product. A plan that is inspired by the objectives of the UN by 2030, which, by the way, were the basis of electoral proposals of the Basque Socialists in the last autonomous elections and which also inspire the agenda of the current Basque Government. A resilience plan that tells us about digital transformation, especially thinking about SMEs; it talks about ecological transition, about territorial and social cohesion, so that these funds do not widen the gap between territories and citizens. A plan that puts on the table also the feminist agenda, which, again in this crisis, as in all crises, has had in women its main victims, because they are the ones who suffer the most precarious, because they are still mostly in charge of home care, because confinement has been especially hard for victims of gender-based violence. The plan of the Government of Spain focuses on all these issues. And I take the opportunity to leave a second thought: What would have happened if this crisis had touched us to cap it again with a right-wing government? What would we be talking about here today if the People's Party were to negotiate in Brussels and transfer these agreements to Spain? What principles would inspire the response to this economic and social crisis? Again, we just have to do a little memory to get the answer: austerity, cuts and recentralization. Constraints, craftiness, boundaries of autobergine, right recipes are known. We saw them during the last crisis and the wounds we left are still obvious. We've learned lesson. This time we seem to have taken the right path, and it was possible for us Socialistists to lead us in Spain and Europe. We may, thanks to our presence in governments, give a fair and just answer to this crisis in all governments, and here in the Basques, we shall have a great deal to say in the definition of these aids in the following months, by the Federal character and subsidies which the Spanish Government has given to this trial. The socialist presence in the Government of Spain has been fundamental to obtaining these funds, but also to deciding where they are headed. Because here it matters what, but also how. And how it is with social, gender, ecological and transformative will. The way it is through co-governance, because the autonomous communities will actively participate in the management of these European funds and will be active agents of them. More than 50% of the funds will be implemented by the communities and this gives a good measure of the decentralized and collaborative spirit with which the Government of Spain faces this challenge. But this, which is an opportunity, is also a challenge for Euskadi, because, as the Economics Councillor said last week in the committee, this will require collaboration and transparency. A lot. The European funds will be made available on the basis of the credibility of the plans being presented and this will undoubtedly force us all to be serious. We must be able to present a catalogue of realistic and viable projects. As you know, the recovery plan of the Spanish Government is structured around ten tractor policies ranging from the urban and rural agenda to energy renewal or modernization of the Administration. I am not going to list them all, but I do want to point out that these are areas where the Basque Socialists have been working for a long time. I have already said this, in the past autonomous elections we did the exercise of trying to land those UN objectives by 2030 on our soil and on the policies that we can develop in Euskadi with our competences. And this responds to a transformative vision of the policy in which the socialists have been working for years in Euskadi, because, when we talk about ecological transition, we must remember that it was the Department of the Environment, headed by the here councilman Iñaki Arriola, that the last legislature promoted the declaration of climate emergency with the aim of turning Euskadi into a carbon neutral territory before 2050. And the climate change bill, a comprehensive law with emission reduction objectives and obligations for both companies and administrations, with mechanisms to encourage low energy intensity and help introduce renewables between private and public actors. Strong responses to put Euskadi at the forefront of environmental protection, but above all, they have helped to consolidate an environmental awareness in Euskadi, which is also the inspiration for these funds, and which will now be translated into concrete projects and policies. Projects and policies also to modernize and digitise our companies, to which 17% of the funds will be allocated, thinking in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises. And I would like to highlight the rapid response of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, which, at a very delicate time for the sector, has increased aid from the COVID Resistance Plan to 70 million, and has launched, in less than a week, a hospitality aid programme with 30 million euros. No other autonomous community has acted so fast and so forcefully. Well, that has been a first emergency response, but we have to look beyond, put the long lights, and that means talking about the digitisation of small trade, about its technological modernization in order to try to deal with the threat of large platforms, with which they do not compete on equal terms and which put their own existence at risk. That is where the institutions have to be, and that is where the Basque Government is going to be, too. And if we are talking about a new economy of care and of consolidating the social and health area as the fourth pillar of the welfare state, we must remember the long way that socialists are taking in this field. And there is, as an example, the Social Services Act of 2008, in which the socialists engage, approving it from the opposition first and developing it later from the government. Projects such as Etxean Ondo, the Beti On teleassistance service or the electronic recipe in our health system, the Portfolio of Benefits and Services Decree 2015. We have made much progress in thinking about the care system. However, we have not yet managed to produce a structured and high-quality economic sector around it. And it is urgent, because another lesson that has been left to us by COVID is the growing importance of the care sector. The Department of Labour and Employment of Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia is committed to professionalization, economic consolidation and its link with technological development and services, support and proximity. To advance, in short, in a quality labour market and in a model of care that allows for a higher quality of care for the elderly and those who require support in their daily lives. And there is more, because we cannot talk about urban regeneration without taking into account the Basque urban agenda Bultzatu 2050, also promoted by the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport. Because talking about urban planning in the 21st century means talking about ensuring access to quality housing, energy efficiency, sustainable mobility and quality jobs. Because, when we see that in Euskadi the urbanised environments are 7% of the territory, but they are home to 75% of the population, the metaphor of Euskal Hiria is even more powerful. And when planning this great Basque city, we must do so in response to the environmental, social, economic and technological challenges that come to us, which are already, in fact, here, and that is seen in the kind of housing we build, in how they connect with each other, in the innovations needed to make more viable issues such as telework. With this idea, the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport is already working in six neighborhoods-laboratory, some already completed, like Txomin Enea in Donostia, and will come more in the future. And it could continue, more with other axes, such as the digitization of the Administration, whose first steps we have already taken through the Public Innovation Plan; the launch of Zuzenean and all the advances in transparency and participation in the Patxi López Government; the commitment to science and R & D+i; the strengthening of education, culture and also sport as an instrument for promoting health, integration and equality in our society. It is on this track that the projects that come forward to be financed with European funds must move forward, with a clear transformative will to help build a more sustainable and egalitarian future, because Europe will only finance projects that involve structural change and have a lasting impact on economic and social resilience, sustainability, competitiveness and employment. This is the framework in which we move and on which we must work. And I end up as I started, highlighting the great opportunity of these European funds, especially for Euskadi. Because, because of our industrial and social fabric, because of our network of universities and technology centers, because of the level of well-being, we are one of the communities that can best take advantage of the transformation platform that the Next Generation funds represent. It is likely that only Madrid and Catalonia can be at our level of knowledge and competitiveness, and for different reasons they are both plunged into a great political instability that plagues them for this challenge. It is therefore the great moment of Euskadi, because we have the institutional stability, the strength and the determination to carry it out successfully. This is our opportunity, but we must do it among all, together: institutions, parties, companies, trade unions, universities, technology centers... If something fits this country's project mantra, it is so often crushed, precisely this one. So let's get to it now, because if we do this right, if we get right with the projects, if we don't get involved in minor partisan disputes, if we all push, I'm sure that Euskadi will come out economically strengthened, with quality jobs and socially cohesive. We are tired of repeating this year that we have to overcome this crisis among all of us, because this is the opportunity we have, all of us, to prove it. Tenemos todas las abilitas para dicer un leap cualitativo. Europe fue capaz en julio de pussybrar una nuneva salida a est Crisis, Euscadi debe aprovechar el camino marcado y exprimo al mámo las posibilides que nos ofrece. There is no other way, we must take the chance that Europe offers us, and we must all do it together. We have time, we have tools. Let's work calmly and seriously, just like things deserve to be done. He is prepared to be master of these reforms, and to leave our children a more permanent, more competitive, and more solidarian people. It's our moment, it's the moment of euccanation to transform this society, the great chance of our generation. I hope you have a level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u12	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Today, in this monographic meeting called by EH Collect, we have a discussion about the funds in Europe. Yes, again. The week before, we had the chance to find out all the teams of this Parliament and the Treasury Committee of the Parliament, where we had the opportunity to explain and make proposals again. So, what's the purpose of this monographic? I'll answer you: a small object to consensus and agreement, and a great deal to quarrel with. It's time for us to unite forces. It's time for the situation. It'll be better for us with everybody's cooperation and less trouble. Since May you've been telling us that you're putting pressure on the Basque Government. But until September there was no government, Mr Otero; the elections were on 12 July. And thanks to our bet to do so, because we got to wait until October and still today, we would still be looking for mushrooms. Eskerrak guk kriterioz eta zuhurtziaz jokatzen dugula, bestela, auskalo. Orin ostalaritza ez dakit zabalik edo zerratuta egongo zen. At Easter you asked to close the hotel, a month ago you criticized its closure. And now that it opens, the government is irresponsible. It is also curious that in Navarra, having also closed the hotel shop in November, there has been no problem. Here, before every proposal you rebel, but in Navarre, no. Look at the illustrative words of your colleague Maiorga Ramirez about this in the interview of the Chain Be last 24 November. And I literally say what he said: "The best measure that has been decided to improve the health situation, it has been decided that the hotel industry should stop. This must be compensated by all, because it is a social measure that has been considered necessary and essential to deal with the curve of contagion and to destress the situation of hospitals. It is a first issue that we must all bear in mind." Kuriosa, ezta?, aldaketa. Same with the schools. In September it was crazy to open up, the Government was acting again from irresponsibility. And now it has been shown that schools are safe places. Who's the irresponsible one here? Any rectifications? Any mistakes to make? We all make mistakes, but we have to recognize them and correct them, we have to digest the contradictions. We cannot one day be defending with the trade union forces the dismissals of a sector, for example, such as automobile, and the next day demand the rise of the diesel tax that affects that sector and its jobs so much. Or to say that we have to raise taxes to high and low incomes, and then defend the rise in the diesel tax, which affects low and middle incomes. What I told you before, you have to assume the contradictions and the reality, and you have to come with the well-digested contradictions. You know it's not easy to manage the pandemic. It hasn't been easy for anyone, not here, not in the rest of the world. We've all been affected. And less easy it will be if the disunity comes first instead of the encounter. From the Basque Nationalist Party we have repeatedly called for political responsibility. EH Bildu is the second political force in Euskadi, and it would be desirable, for the sake of society, for its attitude to be different; from staging to proposal, collaboration and agreement. It is time to join forces for and for Euskadi, to remove complexes, because, by agreeing with the PNV, the winner is Euskadi. But in this new political phase that you have inaugurated, you have played seniors, you have shown enormous generosity in Madrid, giving an almost free yes to budgets. And yes, we applauded and valued it, but it would be better to play the game first at home, as you also did in Navarre. And again I use the illustrative words of your colleague Maiorga Ramirez: "We understand, from EH Bildu, that it is time to tie the shoulder. We need to be constructive in our proposals, and above all, convinced that, indeed, at this moment of great emergency crisis, it is when it is put in place, it is the test of fire of the social pact." So let's look for what unites us, and let's work. Today, with this debate, we have an opportunity. And we will also have it with the next negotiation of the budgets. But I remain in this debate, that of the funds to rebuild Euskadi. We are facing a huge challenge, the management of which will depend on our future. We still have many questions to clear up, but I am sure that all of us here want Euskadi to get as much resources as possible. We want those funds to be activated as soon as possible, and to be a revulsive to our economy and our public policies. I am sure we are aware that the management of this large volume of aid will be complicated, and that it will take a lot of work, a lot of dialogue and a lot of effort. I don't doubt you see it that way too. For all this is what the Government has been doing since summer: work, dialogue, communication and dedication. Not by EH Bildu's hand, but by the hands of social, business and economic actors, who will be directly affected. And no one has made this a cause for dispute, but rather the opposite. It has collaborated, contrasted and counted on all those involved. And very good work has been done, and this will continue to be done, from consensus and dialogue. They do not want to transfer to society an image that does not correspond to reality. This government has not gone alone. I couldn't go alone, because it takes a lot of hands, a lot of ideas and a lot of coordination. The fact that you are not as a party, which seems to be what turns you off, cannot invalidate a whole example of teamwork as this is being. In any case, you know, both you and the rest of the formations, that the government always has the doors open and that at any time you can make your contributions. I recommend that, in addition to the press briefings, you send your initiatives to the Councillor. They've asked for this monograph, and we're celebrating it. And that's okay, because I trust that we can end up with an important degree of consensus. I think that is what is expected of us: agreement to speed up the exit from the crisis through these funds. That is what this Government has in mind. Know our industry, our strategic sectors, our potentials and weaknesses, our institutions. Don't worry, because you're not going to escape any helpable projects. But this process – complex, yes – has its phases and filters. There is no improvisation, nor is it late, Mr. Otero. We are adjusting to the reality of the moment and the dates that are set from Brussels, or from Spain. Without going any further, this Sunday was the press headline. I have it here, and I literally read it to you; last Sunday, four days ago. "Europe unlocks budgets and funds. After several months of negotiation and high tension with one of the member states, the European Union has overcome the serious blockade threats that it has been facing and that make it difficult to make far-reaching decisions to deal with the health, economic and social consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic and to lay the foundations for recovery, not only in the short term, but in the medium term. The European Council held on 10 and 11 December provides for the approval of the Union's Multiannual Budget Framework and the Next Generation Recovery Plan." The veto of Hungary and Poland was lifted last Sunday, four days ago. Who has gone late, the Basque Government, or the European Union itself? Europe is late; they have already admitted it. And we see ourselves dragged. Beraz, benetan: do you think we're going late, seeing this news from last Sunday, December 12th? We must renew the messages and be less belligerent. Although I also read other headlines that same day, the truth is they didn't wish me anything new. And I quote: "The opposition anticipates a belligerent opposition in Wednesday's plenary in the Basque Parliament." In the face of this criticism, of the uncertainty, of the lack of participation, of the lack of participation with the rest of the political actors, a hue for Mrs Gorrotxategi: the criticism of the government's lack of participation with the rest of the political and social actors, is it a criticism of the Government of the State or of the Basque Government? This government goes as fast as it can and must go: without pause but without haste. Because they are jobs that require maturity, time and zero improvisations, without chaos or codaços. But it is also not up to the Basque Government, as I have said before. We have many limitations that come from outside and that condition us. We can also take these debates there: to the General Courts, for example, and talk about changing the model of decentralization of funds in the various ministries, or of creating a single agreement with the Treasury so that we can manage the funds from here with our powers, to manage from here our industrial policy, which is also our competence. Horiek dira guk pontatuko ditugun eta defendatuko ditugun ekimenak. Eta hemen nire weretzuna, Otero jaunari. There are many factors outside this Government which, however, also mark their work. They are not believed to be the only ones who want to go faster, but to want and power in this case do not go hand in hand. As the phrase says: "The secret to a successful life is to find our purpose, and then do it." Beraz, ekin bideari eta eskaerak Europan eta Madrilen era egin. Esan Bakarrik ez, egin era egin behar dira. Baina ez eskatu beasti zuk egiten ez dozuena. Eta honen ildora, Otero jauna, adi jarraitu disut, éta esan nahi disudana zera da: that the political trajectory of the abertzale left over the years has always been recognized for its open and conciliatory character, its effective participatory processes, its preclara strategic vision, and, above all, for its model of sustainable human development. Irony is not always well understood in this rostrum. But, in this case, I don't think I've confused anyone: tell me what you presume and I'll tell you what you lack. He will integrate the Euskadi the history of the Tours, with the plan of resilence and resilence to be introduced in the European Union, the acts relating to the Basques, and the economics, and the resplendent program for promotement of employment. And the two axiss are the reviving of Emanomy and employment, and not the rest of us, because we are all alone with the European program: The employment axis, with the REACT-EU, and economic recovery, MR or Mecanism Europeo de Recuperción y Resilencia. The Basque Resilitate Program, or, in short, to complete EuskakiaNext, was formed a committee of departments on the 17th of November last. We must remember that this committee was formed in November, at the conference on October 26th, after having met with the criteria of the funds for the European Union; I am speaking of the small conference which the President and the President of the European Committee participated in. And in October, too, a three-forum-falle and tri-tudinity began to revive the economy and to start the concert for the job. So there are also reasons for the date. The program, and the responsibility of the committee which was formed on November 17, as you have said, and I don't want to repeat it, is to collect the strategic plannings and the corresponding activities for 2020 and 2026. And also to perform actions which may be made together by the laws and rules of law, and by those standards which are called RECT, and RECT-EU. The commitment to employment and economic recovery has been reiterated by the lehendakari. Do whatever it takes to keep all possible jobs and get all the lost jobs back. The strategy is integrated into a comprehensive country project, sustainable human development that contributes to the achievement of the United Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. The strategy is also aligned with the European Next Generation Fund, which provides a comprehensive framework for aligning and guiding public and private resources and efforts towards building an ecological, digital and resilient Europe, through sustainable and inclusive growth that strengthens social and territorial cohesion. Euskadi shares and assumes these guidelines as a basis for defining its sustainable growth strategy, establishing a link between the axes of its strategy and the European recovery instruments. In this way, the axis, as I said before, the axis of economic reactivation integrates the philosophy and essence of the RRM, while the axis of job creation includes the large dimensions of the REACT-EU programme for social and territorial cohesion. This programme which the Governing Council will adopt at the end of this month will consist of two axes and is obviously the result of an intensive analysis of the proposals received. Lehenengoa, country transformative bets. Strategic projects for economic recovery and transformation, the Basque PERTE, will be integrated into this axis. They are strategic areas that seek to position and strengthen our power in sectors of the future that will leverage economic and social development. Sectors that will improve the potential GDP of Euskadi, with intense public-private collaboration in the field of renewable energies, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, sustainable transport and care of people. Eta bigarren ardatza, acceleration of strategic areas through eight components, which are – and I say they are, today, because I already tell you that the government is in full phase of contrast –: lehenengoa, lifelong learning; bigarena, digitisation and innovation; renewable energy generation; sustainable mobility; urban habitat; natural habitat; natural disaster prevention eta, azkenik, health and care of people. And at this point I would like to stand in the care, zainttan, which is so much mentioned and which has also been dealt with today. Although Europe does not include it in the different reference frameworks, Spain does, and we too will consider it. The path must be directed towards cross-cutting proposals to transform social policies with older people, integrating projects that encompass gender, multisectoral, person-centred, anything to be a reference in healthy and active ageing, our new skills in care, improving, for example, the quality of employment and transforming a highly feminized sector, enhancing and professionalizing it. In summary, reform and transform the model of social and health care, of maturation, of the elderly, of dependence and fragility, and that the care system not only falls on women and families. This is our plan. Always in collaboration with municipalities and institutions, from nearby. Personak erdigunean lizanda. And this should not surprise anyone because it is aligned with our budgetary guidelines. And not this year, but also for, at least, more or less, the last three exercises. It is the translation of our economic policy. We have defined policies and a coherent message. Give security and guidelines to society in the midst of existing instability. And this month she'll have her own program from Basque. The eubertarians, which, as I said in the event, we think we ought to consider our country's view. Aligned with our challenges and with the deployment of our public policies, our government program and our smart specialization strategy, recognized by the European Union. This plan will also help consolidate and strengthen Basque self-government, driving the Basque presence and its international projection through the Basque Country strategy. The object of the government is to accept December 29th in the Government Council. To send it to the Spanish Government, the latter to introduce the Eucatan projects which he is to send to Europe in January. And here is a message which Otero has brought to-day, and which I shall repeat, because it is the criterion which I have: Eubertarians would like to have a direct interloculation from Euka to Europe. I've already told you what questions we've been asking at court to do more properly. Brussels, not only us, Brussels is clear that entities such as Euskadi must participate in the governance of the European Fund for Recovery Next Generation, because they are closer, know better about the productive apparatus, have stable and fruitful dynamics of cooperation, and skills and dynamics to manage these funds efficiently. The Community authorities consider this regional contribution to be essential, and therefore, from the Basque Nationalist Party, we hope that the states, as Mr Otero used to bring my words here, will overcome the temptation to manage these funds centrally and alone. There are already similar management mechanisms in Europe, such as the ERDF, which would allow for better management of our competences and respect for our area of competence. There is a fear, it seems, of talking about federal Europe. But the more crises, the more Europe demands citizenship, and this is reflected in the latest surveys. European criteria and application as close to citizenship as possible. And here I would like to quote Don Javier de Landaburu, who deserves a prominent position in this relationship. Possibly the most intuitive of the future. In 1956 he wrote a message to the Basque youth, under the title The Cause of the Basque People, a book of vigorous today and that every Basque youth should read. I quote in this regard its seventh chapter, entitled "From the Basque nation to Europe and the world": "(...) today only the Europe of States is made, which was easier to do, because there is a hurry to do so, because one of the aggravates in the European organization is fear. When fear passes and the doctrine matures, one will think of making Europe of the peoples. And in that Europe no one will be able to deny a position to our people, to that federalist and pacifist people (...). When the current notion of the state is overtaken, when Europe sits on its most natural, fairer, less hypocritical foundations, and it will come to that if we want it, if young people want it, the concert of European nations can be a reality that prepares the universal federation (...)". We therefore reiterate once again our European vocation. This Europe in whose development the Basque people must also influence and participate in these key moments. Beraz, laguntzak emateko modua Europaren egituraketaren island ere bada, statuen Europaren island da. Erronka daukagu denok, Statu gabeko nazioetan bizi garen guztiok, eta denok ekin behar diogul lanari. We are talking about an unprecedented amount of money that will undoubtedly require a major effort of coordination and collaboration between the different administrations and with Europe. We call for teamwork and understanding to bring this unique opportunity and this great challenge to a successful conclusion, because what we do today will determine our future. We must be at the foot of the cannon fighting for our gap, and Euskadi has an advantage: it is competitive, has an advanced industry, invests a lot in R & D and tractor sectors, has a model of public-private collaboration that is working. Industry for which, Mrs Gorrotxategi, I remind you, we bet when the second sector was dirty and nobody wanted to bet on it, and it was only acceptable to bet on the third sector. Thanks to that bet, our bet, and because we know which country we want, we have this advanced industry that has reinvented itself. Because, another economic dogma from which we have escaped, Mrs Gorrotxategi, is the exclusive bet for the service sector, leaving aside the industrial one, a wrong bet which they applied for example in the UK and which today try to reverse with much effort and difficulty. We know which country we want. With regard to R & D, certain key data. The European Innovation Indicators Panel classifies countries according to their capacity for innovation into four groups: leading countries in innovation, countries with high innovation, countries with moderate innovation or countries with low innovation. They have already told you on previous occasions different Sailburus, and as a more recent explanation, the Sailburu Bildarratz, which, as it was so clear, I would like to bring those figures today, to see how our innovative position puts us in a better exit position for recovery. Although in this rostrum different graphics have been shown, egunean beast Casanova jaunak graphiko bat erakutsi zuen, nik beast batzuk ditut, eta hauek ére uste dut aztertu behar say it. Eta ikusten da non dagoen Europe beasts komunitateekiko, hemen daukagu lehenengo postuan gaudela edota hemen ikusten dugu Europar Batasunean bear ondo-ondoan gaudela innobaziari dagokionez. Euskadi has consolidated the position between European countries with high innovation. This means, or implies, having an average of more than 95 % of that recorded by the countries of the European Union. In particular, it represents 99.1 in 2019, when in 2012 it represented only 91.9. Public financing of R & D is a key element, but it is not the only variable. In this sense, and according to Eustat, the investment of R & D in Euskadi in 2019 has increased by 4,1 % and reaches 1,481 million euros, i.e. 1,86 % on gross domestic product in 2019, while in Spain only 1,24. Euskadi's figure represents EUR 58 million more than the previous year, i.e. an increase of 4.1%, thus consolidating for the fourth consecutive year a stage of growth in expenditure, included in the year 2016, and which makes it possible to reach a new maximum in the historical series of expenditure in 2019. From an employment point of view, it accounts for almost 20,000 people in full R & D, in the 19th, 1.8% more than the previous year. If we focus on the research staff, it increased more than the average, in particular by 2.7% to 13.520. This government's strategic R & D & I bet is clear, it's worth redundancy. From the point of view of domestic R & D & i financing, public funding is the largest increase, 6.3% more than the previous year. And this is our commitment. And I have already said that, on previous occasions, both Sailburu Bildarratz and Sailburu Azpiazu, the 6% increase in R & D & I investment in this legislature. Y no olvid demos los programus vinculados a I+D y sus objectivos. Grownts, projects of industrial research or experimental development, associations to promote the investigation of each other, to renew, to love... That's how I can go on with the EMNAB, located almost 900 million dollars in the budgets of 2020, to these programs. I sincerely believe that they are good ingredients for our institutions, our Government, to be able to manage these funds efficiently. We can contribute very solvent projects to overcome the crisis generated by COVID and to transform our economy. Euskadi has a history, recognition and a productive sector that is working on future projects, from automotive to aeronautics, energy, machine tool, naval sector, transport. Beyond the COVID, our sectors and institutions are moving, and Euskadi can contribute many projects, solvent projects, to apply these European funds to the recovery and modernization of the economy. The member states are the gateway to the Next Generation funds, but the autonomous governments are the pilot of that recovery attached to territoriality. And at this point, our municipalities. The funds will be allocated according to projects of the municipalities, parliaments, etc., etc. If municipal projects are viable, feasible and measurable, they will obviously be projects that will opt for the funds, so limiting their resources would not make much sense. The Basque Government is concerned about this and has also met with the three municipalities of the Basque capitals and with Eudel in technical meetings. It is important that municipal authorities benefit from European funds. But we must also be aware of the enormous difficulty of the vast majority of Basque municipalities in preparing projects for Europe. It would be ungovernable to manage everything with the 255 municipalities in such a short time. To this end, we are putting forward debates on social policies. By the way, since EH Bildu has used it on more than..., on a thousand and one occasions – I was going to say more than once, but not, on a thousand and one occasion – I want to clarify this: EH Bildu says that Europe has always encouraged a broad debate with different political forces. And it's not like that. The literal translation of Europe's communiqué says: "opening a broad debate on public policies", not with political forces, on public police, and not on politics, translation error you are playing with and that, therefore, I hope that with this nuance the issue will be settled, because on public policies there is a debate. Finally, in relation to the agreement – I am talking about municipal issues – and in relation to the agreement of 20 May signed by EH Bildu with the Government of Spain, which I have here, in the second point we agree on greater spending capacity for public policies aimed at alleviating the social effects caused by the crisis of COVID-19. I'd like to know if you've achieved anything in that regard. It was, in your opinion, a magnificent agreement, but what have you achieved? So you have come out to defend him on numerous occasions. I have here a lot of articles in which you come out to defend this agreement. But based on the fact that you were important actors in Madrid, and that you were looking for social rights for Euskadi, jakin nahiko nuke and zer edo zer lortu duzuen akordio honen ondorioz, udalei dirua hel dakien. Bada, nik you had to be ez era. And don't forget that, thanks to our agreement – yes, to ours – on the same day of May 20, the municipalities will have the capacity to borrow through the outlaws, because you already know that the financial guardianship of the municipalities rests with the deputies. Therefore, what do you want a new fund for, if the municipalities already have debt through the financial tutelage of the deputies, and if they can also spend the surplus – which, by the way, there is a lot – and, if not, you can observe it according to the LILE report. There is already one way, and we have fought it, for what I am telling you again, I would appreciate it if you would bring proposals this afternoon with political viability and technical feasibility. We believe that the interdepartmental commission responsible for developing Euskadi Next should work in a coordinated way with Eudel, who can attend projects and actions at the municipal level through eligible lines that impact on the components of this programme, for example, related to natural and urban habitat, sustainable mobility and energy efficiency. Hemen sartzen will say, "Baita ére, beasts cande desberdinek eskatzen duzuena." Therefore, identifying areas in which our municipalities can enter and so the funds can be capitalised will be our goal, and we will propose it this afternoon. I can only conclude by expressing my wish that, through our resolutions, we should try to help the Government, to accompany it in a work on which the foundations are already established, but which, of course, can be improved. But we can't clear the way we've already gone. I am confident that this afternoon we will be able to adopt good initiatives that will reinforce the direction that the Executive is giving to this programme, because we all want the best, the best project, the greatest amount of aid. In this regard, I would like to comment on a couple of things. Well, one question to Mr Otero; that is what he has said and that is what he has just said this morning, that European funds are going to mark our future. I believe that our future must be marked by us, and that is what we are clear about. European funds strengthen investment in key sectors already identified by the government and the institutions, but we will mark our guidelines and our key sectors, the funds will not mark us the future. To Mr Gordillo: you mentioned the extreme politicization of the process of Europe Next Generation, and directly Europe Next Generation is a political process, because it must be the representatives of the citizenry who must manage public resources. From our group, therefore, we do not stigmatise the political factor of the process, although we understand that the criteria for granting aid must be the realism and the business viability of the projects receiving the aid, since we want them to be multiplier aid, a seed that subsequently flourishes within the company itself, creating business growth and quality employment. Similarly, the way to assess the performance of the aid must be essentially public, without prejudice to the possibility of assistance from audit firms or any other branch. The distance in decision-making centres is sometimes an asset of policy; having the European Union for this evaluation process will undoubtedly be a positive act. And on the excessive centralisation in the state in the granting of aid, for I sincerely say that we appreciate its position in favour of a decentralized state. Eta geratzen zaidan minutuan, Gorrotxategi andreari, seems to beat gauza. There's one thing I'm glad about your intervention. I am pleased that you share the Government's approach that public investment is the engine of recovery. Beraz, badugu elkarrizketarako bide bat. Esan duzu ez dugula eduki aukerarik elkarrizketarako, bathe atzo zure tadekide batekin egon nintzen hitz egiten. Beraz, ez dakit don't ikusten duzune lankidetza eza hori. Let us all make an effort, let us accompany the Executive in this work. And one last question, madam, or... yes, one question: Did you ever explain that in front of society one of his assets has never fallen into economic dogmas? When they came from Europe, the government attempted to prevent it from taking all the expenses which the law permitted, to maintain our model of society. Our social model. And while we're talking about this, that bet picked up Podemos' support together at the time you protected the 2020 budget. And so this year. In the budgets which will be presented this week, the government will strengthen the health and education camps, avoiding excessive debt and avoiding dogmatical austerity, as we have always done. Wisdom and ambition, leaving no one behind. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. After that, I'm glad you're here, Mr. Subazel, he's got his word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs of departments, congressmen. It is certainly curious to the Government how it is incorporated into this monographic plenary, since, as many of you know, on 9 December I already appeared before the Committee on the Economy, Finance and Budgets of this Parliament to give an account of the steps taken in the definition of the Euskadi Recovery and Resilience Programme, known as the Euskadi Next 21-26, and, although I am aware of the different dimension of this debate, more strategic orientation and less management, I hope that after the debate the limits on which the legislative body and the functions of the executive will operate are clear. That is why this Government hopes that, in a positive sense, good resolutions will emerge from this debate that will guide the way forward in this area, as well as the successive steps to be taken in the form of strategic guidelines, and we will all owe it to them. Having made this first assessment, I can only reiterate what has already been expressed in the appearance to which I referred, in which, on the other hand, the various parliamentary groups also had the opportunity to express their position on the steps taken by the Government. Xehetasun hau eginda, agerraldi hartan esandakoa errepikatu besterik ez dut egin behar. Agerraldi hartan, beast, such a parliamentary ere izan zuten gai horri buruzko iritzia emateko aukera. I am therefore not going to go beyond what is necessary, because all of you have the information that the Government has at its disposal at this time. The briefness will help me to make some reminders that I consider to be central to the development of this debate. I would therefore like to point out that the objective of the Next Generation initiative is to provide public and private investment at European level, with a view to achieving a sustainable and resilient recovery, expected from the second half of next year, creating quality jobs and repairing the immediate damage caused by the pandemic, while supporting Europe's ecological and digital priorities. The purpose of the next projecting is to make a public and private investment at the level of Europe, a permanent and resilient resion, producing social employments, and repairing immediate damages caused by Pandemies, and at the same time protecting the ecological and digital privileges of Europe. I would also like to recall that the cornerstone of this fund is the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, whose objective is to undertake reforms and investments that promote the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the Union, increasing the resilience, growth potential and adaptability of the Member States, mitigating the social and economic impact of the crisis, and supporting the ecological transition to achieve the European Union's objective of climate neutrality, as well as the digital transition, thereby contributing to economic and social convergence and job creation. As I said last week, the strategic orientation of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism is closely linked to the recommendations of the European Semester, confirming the European Union's objective of pursuing a new growth strategy based on the European Green Pact and the competitive sustainability concert, understanding it in its four dimensions: environmental sustainability, productivity, equity and macroeconomic stability. All these variables, without prejudice to which they may determine the European legislation implementing these extraordinary financing mechanisms, as well as the conditions and requirements which the Spanish State may establish, will therefore condition the strategic orientation of the destination of these funds. Europe has clearly assessed the areas of action. All these variables, without injury to those in Europe which can be established by the extraordinary financial mechanism of financing, and the conditions and requirements which the State of Spain can establish, will therefore be conditioned by the strategic orientation of those funds. I do not say that there is no room left for this Parliament to develop these guidelines, but these guidelines must be aligned with this approach. The opposite would be to sail in the void. According to the information available to us, Spain intends to send a first version of its plan – which must include that of the autonomous communities – in January 2021, so that Euskadi should send its first version this month. In this regard, as I also announced in my appearance, on 29 December next, the Governing Council will adopt a first version of the Euskadi Next 2021-2026 programme, which will send to the State to integrate it into its own. Once Spain sends its plan – which will be the first filter of Basque proposals – it will be the European institutions that determine whether the projects and actions included in it meet the requirements to opt for the Resilience and Recovery Mechanism. Proposals which must meet the European requirements in terms of time and form, since failure to meet the deadlines and milestones set out in our programme will make it necessary to receive the funds. Strict rigour is therefore required in selecting projects, as they must, as you know, be implemented by 31 August 2026. And for that reason, it is vitally important to take a realistic and viable approach, as I told you last Wednesday. An own programme with a strategic country approach that allows our proposals to fit into the plan that should be sent to Europe. That's why it's very important to make realistic and viable planning, as I told you last Wednesday. A special program, with a strategic planning of the people, to include our proposals in the plan that Spain will send to Europe. A programme of its own whose orientation should contribute to the emblematic areas identified by the Commission: the implementation of clean technologies; the acceleration of the development and use of renewable energy; the improvement of the energy efficiency of buildings; the acceleration of the use of sustainable, accessible and intelligent transport; the rapid deployment of broadband services to all regions and households; the digitisation of administration and public services; the enhancement of industrial capabilities in cloud data and the development of state-of-the-art and sustainable processors; and the adaptation of education systems to support digital skills and education and vocational training at all ages. Let us not forget that the Government has its regular budget, that is, what does not come into the Euskadi Next programme, because it does not meet the requirements for European funds, does not mean that it will not be done, if not that it will have to be done with the own resources of the Basque institutions. I want to warn you of the expectations and misunderstandings that I believe certain messages are generating in the citizenry. The European funds are very important, and we are going to do impeccable work to absorb as much as possible, with ambition, but they are not the only source of income that the Basque institutions have. As I also pointed out to you last week, we have our own framework, which is nothing other than the 2020-2024 "Euskadi Government Programme under way" and the 2020-2024 Berpiztu Programme for Economic Reactivation and Employment. Eta, joan den esten esan nizuen bezala, gure erereferentzia-esparru propria dugu, hau da, Gobernu Programa, "Euskadi martxan", Eta Berpiztu, Ekonomia eta Enplegua Suspertzeko Programa. I also believe that an important dose of pragmatism is needed to draw up a powerful proposal, at the level of our country. The Government is in a phase of contrast with the Basque institutions and economic and social actors, to select projects that are in line with the European guidelines and are genuine engines of economic recovery, employment generation and transformation of our productive systems. As I already advanced them last week, the Euskadi Next program will be articulated around two axes. A first axis where strategic projects for Basque economic recovery and transformation will be integrated, with important public-private and public-public collaboration in the field of renewable energy, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, sustainable transport and care of people. And a second axis, addressing the acceleration of investments in certain strategic areas such as health and care for people; lifelong learning; digitization and innovation; renewable energy generation; sustainable mobility; urban habitat; natural habitat and natural disaster prevention. With regard to the absorption by local entities, the Basque Government is proposing that, in order to give greater prominence to the municipal sphere than that which has been embodied in the General Budgets of the State, which includes 1,233 million for more than 8,100 local entities throughout the State, including large capitals and small municipalities, and to respect our differentiated financing system, it is possible to make some of the components included in the Euskadi Next have sufficient capillary to reach municipal projects, through, for example, existing grant lines: natural and urban habitat, energy efficiency, sustainable mobility, etc. A country view is needed. It must go beyond the "to which institution the resources come" and give way to "what investments we managed to develop in Euskadi" with European funds. To be able to absorb as many funds as possible with the most pragmatic and realistic approach possible. 100% of what comes to Euskadi will have an impact on our economic and social sectors, our towns and cities. I do not want to make it clear that, as I also told you, there are many uncertainties about the formula for access to European resources. The goal is for money to arrive as soon as possible, but it is also true that there are many doubts about access by different actors and institutions. Ez dut ahaztu nahi, esan nizuen bezala, zalantza asko daudela Europako baliabideak eskuratzeko formulaten inguruan. Dirua lehenbailehen iristea da Helburua, bathe egia da, halaber, zalantza asko exitzen say the eragileek eta erakundeek dirua eskuratzeari buruz. For this reason, what we have prioritized from the Basque Government is to have a strategic programme of our own, which respects and fits the European guidelines, but then we must be flexible in the face of the requirements and conditions that the Spanish Government can establish in order to be able to access as much of the resources as possible. We have been assured that the autonomous communities will participate in the management of RRM funds through various channels, although they have not yet been implemented. We only know, within the framework of the General Budgets of the State for 2021, the budgetary appropriations of the various ministries that they have for the allocations of the MRR. There is no doubt that, after all, these extraordinary and additional funds will increase the regular budget that this House will eventually approve for the 21st and subsequent years; but, as we have already reiterated, we must be very cautious, given that the European institutions still lack legal implementation of the implementation of these extraordinary financing mechanisms, as well as a more specific specification by the Government of the State of the requirements and conditions for their management. For this reason, the Draft General Budgets of Euskadi for the next year, approved yesterday in the Government, does not incorporate any revenue from the MRR or from the REACT-EU. However, as you will be able to see tomorrow after your appointment by the Bureau of Parliament, the bill includes a set of provisions to facilitate the incorporation of these funds into the General Budgets of Euskadi and their budget implementation, as well as the administrative processing of the actions and projects that finance these funds. I would like to end by calling on the groups of the House to move from this moment of stagement to one of realising agreements, both in the area of European funds and the general budget of Euskadi for the coming year. Be assured that our intention as a government is to work as best as we know, in order to achieve an ambitious programme that will be able to bring as much European resources as possible to Euskadi. I believe that this is the objective of all present. To define it, we have the confidence of a majority of Basque citizens, and be sure that our way of proceeding will remain marked by contrasting with economic and social actors, and with other institutions, with transparency, yes, but with agility and determination as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u16	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. The turn of the groups will now be taken to make the 10-minute reply intervention. I give the floor to the proposer group, the representative of EH Bildu, Mr Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u17	Okay. Good noon, everyone, for the time. Ten minutes, as long as you can, about what you're told. I want to start with a first thing: Mrs. Berrojalbitz, if you have any doubt of my entering into the mud to fight for you, I doubt not, in the first sentence, I will tell you: I'm not going in. I'm not going in. It seems to me that what is at stake is too important, that what we have in hand is too important, that a challenge is too important to be included in that wretched exercise you have made. About two-thirds of your interaction, you've kicked us in spinners or dedicated them. And if that was your goal today, you've done it, but I think that you've only photographed the Dogeon of your position. So I won't get in much. But with the interference you have made, I think you have decapitated one of the incognits that was today. And it was one of my incognits to see whether the EAJ team has the situation, or whether he is aware of the situation in which this process opens the door. And it seems to me you didn't realize and you made it clear. The key I think has given it at the end. You said that the funds reinforce the key investments that are already being made, and that we are going to get out of here with our funds. And, precisely, these funds go from disruptions; these funds go precisely to do things differently. And you, and it's true, that is, you understand. That's how you get it. You have done what the government did in its first reflection, and that is what was seen on the first list. I mean, get everything they had out there, and put it in, see if it went in. That is to reinforce the investments that were already being made, and not to reflect on why this comes, to stop talking, to stop designing, and from there to make a disruptive process that changes the situation in which we are in. So, I don't think they've understood anything. And you said the funding and both of you, the EAJ and the government said that these funds are important, or that they are important, but the last time you said it was important to move forward with our funds, right? And this is a part of the truth, or a part of the truth, yes. And I'll explain why, for two things. You, and we, and all of us know that the budgets you're going to present tomorrow, in a very large amount of budget are highly effective budgets, and that the margin is small. And that, when you're going to negotiate budgets, or when we're going or when we're gone, you've always made it clear that the space to move there is very small. There is another question, and it is: What are our funds? For, as far as we are Europeans, we consider ours. But I want to concentrate on the budget idea. Here, the Spanish State may be at stake until 140,000 euros; we shall see what it is. And we'll see what's taken, what's wanted, and we'll see what's coming to us. But the part that comes from it, all of it, will be the necessary amount of organic transformation, digital and resilient, to promote disruptive projects for social resilence. Therefore, whether the clabes are modification, or the necessary modification. And it's curious that if you're so important that you're going to have this trial, and I'm talking about it, and that's why I'm talking about it, and our team has talked about it, and, unfortunately, our team has talked about it, because if you figure it out, the budgets, unless you move, 50 million euros, 200 million euros, you're gonna present tomorrow, we're going to see the game, we're going to have a chance to make it, we're gonna have a chance of increasing the odds, we're gonna have a political chat, we're gonna have a chance of negotiating, and then we're going to accept it. Think of the trial, and the little margin. And here, in this thousands of millions of dollars' game, you won't put your list on the table, you don't call us, you haven't called us to talk about it for half a year, and you'll accept it in a United States Council and send it to Madrid. Imagine the size of the closing. The size of the closeness of thought. And, I tell you, I said before, things could be done differently. Do you know who's gonna test the German project? Buttag will test him. Why don't you make a similar process here, or do it? That's the lock. And there's that inability to understand our theme, or understand your headlines. And this closeness is about projects and the entire course that has been made. And here, Berrojalbiz has spoken "que se ha coaborado," "se ha consensot," "se ha conferenceado," but we have never seen that anywhere. We haven't seen him. And the case of Euler's is a paradigmatic case. Tell them you've talked to Eudel, tell them the president received his projects from the council, and then, when we contacted Eudel, we've had calls or meetings made without the Opinion Committee. And when we asked for an acta, when we asked for an appointment, you told us that there was no end. Beraz, Eta Anduezak zioenari pixka bat jarraiki, zerrendak aurkeztu eta gero eztabaida etorriko baldin bada, hala proposiatu duzu, guk diogona da orina arte egin dena bezalakoa baldin bada, which we aviados, which we aviados. In half a year we have had no chance of contrasting anything. Beraz, iruditzen zaiguna da hemen nolabait ere hasierako akats horiek, zerrendaren bitartez egin ziren akats horiek, ontzat eman tell her, and that from there she is fleeing forward. The Government, on the part of the groups that subject it, is being called upon to continue to complete this process. This process that for us is incomprehensible. I would say that not only for us, because if we see the document Price made about the second list, which already included some projects of deputies and municipalities. And you will tell me that this is no longer the definitive list, of course, but we cannot talk about another. It showed how there were several of the problems I'm talking about here. They insisted on infrastructure – almost all railway infrastructure, for example – and were told: this is not what is being sought from Europe. And there is another problem, which is the subject of the taifas, that there were government projects of a deputy, of a group of companies, to the extent that PricewaterhouseCoopers tells them: hey, let's see if they can order it a little bit, because there are a lot of projects they have, that they can go to the same drawers or to the same sites and we have to group, right?, for example, the initiative of Mondragon, the Advanced Manufacturing Center, the Center of World Excellence of Electric Vehicle, the development of autonomous vehicle security. What is giving us a clue, a clue to what I was saying in the first intervention, which is, in the end, an attempt is being made to make an impossible, or apparently impossible, exercise of balance between regular preferred customers who were, at first, not accommodated, or many were not accommodated, and from there are trying to make a fit with everything that is coming after. Instead of doing a process backwards, in which first it is designed, let's say, the classification of what we want to send and, from there, it is put, it is filled with contents, because in a coherent way. I don't know if they're doing it now, now they say they're doing it. And, in fact, it's curious, because we're telling them that we've already done our own work and that we can show it when they're right to open that can we're talking about, and it turns out that, from behind, we're getting some town halls, people from different government departments, asking us about the projects in a completely chaotic process, so I say that the project was completely chaotic. Denbora bear gutxi dago, gauza asko dago esateko. Nik Bakarrik honekin amaituko nuke. Ikusten dut, ba hori, larritasun bat, a lot of nervousness on the PNV bench according to the intervention. Don't worry, this is no assault, no assault, we're not pulling the stairs up the walls. This is not a career to see who has the most influence in Madrid, which I see they are also very concerned about. They were asking us to see if we are important actors in Madrid. They were telling us what we want the funds for. Obviously, what we want is, as we said in the first speech, I think quite clearly, to design what the future we are thinking of for this country for the next decade and, if possible, to do so in a consensual way. Because we insist, because we insist, and it is true that I see that they are concerned about the issue, we are insisting on the idea that this exceeds the government. This is going to run until 2026, it goes beyond the legislature, and it's going to pay until 2058. And here, no matter what you weigh, you won't always be in power. It's okay, it's okay to try to do a shared exercise, an attempt at minimum agreements to see what we can all defend in Madrid. Yes, because we're all going to have something to say in Madrid. And I'm not talking about Euskal Herria Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party, I'm also talking about the rest, because I understand that if it's a project, a program, it's consensual, because we'd have a little more chance. I leave it here, I don't have time anymore. In the afternoon we continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u18	Thank you, Mr. Otero. I give the floor to the Joint Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u19	Already in all groups and the Government it has become clear the dark management of these euros by the Government, which, rather than in conversion funds, have turned them into a boat to pay the rounds of the gang. The executive head of Mr Urkullu is responsible for providing assistance to the companies concerned, whatever their size, to the self-employed and to all kinds of people, as well as to the sectors that are suffering most. And I insist, we all know that major infrastructure works do not go through special difficulties in Euskadi right now, as if to invest large amounts of these funds in them. All this he has pointed out awakens us serious doubts about what is the economic model for which it is committed in our region, the economic model that pursues the PNV, supported by its partner PES. Are they betting on a Basque country with a smaller service sector and a growing weight of agriculture? Is that really what they're trying to do? Because the hole they are going to cause is enormous in size, which stems from forgetting that sector which is going through so badly and which accounts for almost half of the GDP of our Autonomous Community. And since this is the evidence, what interest is behind such a distribution of these aids and funds? Maybe clientelism? Perhaps the interest of contenting oneself to the detriment of the general interest? Of a whole sector that looks, moreover, with serious doubts to the near future, with a real terror to the future also further away? We're talking about thousands of entrepreneurs on the verge of ruin, if they're not already buried in it. We are talking about thousands of workers who see their jobs in danger, if they have not lost it already. We are talking about thousands of families who depend on a business model that you close and open almost without notice, who do not know what to stick to and who are willing and doomed to forget. They have used them as scapegoats, while allowing other sectors to act with absolute irresponsibility, if not impunity. As usual, and in conclusion, I would like to emphasize something that this Government and the main party of the parties that make up it are already accustomed to us, that primacy of political bias in the face of economic rationality; that obsession with meeting the needs of the public administrations and the parties that lead them, leaving aside the economic model of the whole region. Once and for all, this Government should make a moral commitment to our entire community. It should serve the interests of the country, not just those of a party and its affiliates. It has a duty to administer the community, rather than to devote itself to the administration itself in order to carry out its expenses and public interests. Mr Lehendakari, Mr Azpiazu, you have called for maximum transparency in the management of funds coming from Europe, and I wonder whether you are not obliged to the same transparency in the design of projects, in the management of funds arriving in the Basque Country. I believe that at this point we all agree: you owe us transparency; you are obliged to promote the maximum possible participation; you must give priority to aid for the sectors most affected by the crisis. It's a question of equity, it's a question of justice, it's your responsibility. We only hope that the distribution of these funds will not end as the Hiriko case, a case which the Government is also very much aware of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. I give the floor to the People-Citizens Group. Mr. Gordillo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, in the debate we have had, the truth is that, almost more than just a debate, what we are having is a succession of visions about what the situation is regarding these funds, but what I do not see is a deep debate, and I also take my own fault. I would like to have a specific discussion here, because, indeed, what strategic approach should be given, and above all, I hope that some resolutions will come out this afternoon calling on the government to work to ensure that this European money, this funding, really leads us to carry out a series of ambitious measures and projects that change the economy and many structures that need to be reformed. In making a very brief review, the proposing group has put a lot of emphasis on the need for the municipalities to participate. Of course, that's where they have territorial power. The others say to him "no, no, the Basque Government and the deputies are already participating", which is where the others have no territorial power, right? In the background, this is a bit of a "get off me" fight. Elkarrekin Podemos Group has put a lot of emphasis on that, on the need also to use these funds to make their own political agenda. Well, it's curious that between EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos there is a very interesting question from an academic point of view – since Mrs Berrojalbiz has taken it out – and it is the issue that, in essence, for EH Bildu all the problems that Basque society has derive from that we are a nation and we lack state. When we become a state, all the problems will automatically disappear. In the case of Podemos it is: all the problems derive from that we are not a society because, I don't know whether to call it Marxist or absolutely... established by the public authorities, without any margin of personal autonomy. In the case of the PSE, therefore, a man, something expected, the defence of Sánchez and his Government. And in the case of the main group that supports the government, the PNV, well, nothing, "we're on it and you'll see what good it's going to be," and that's it, isn't it? With European funds, I believe that a number of things need to be made clear, and that is that this is not an automatic cashier, I have said it before. We have not understood anything if we believe that this is simply going to be a repetition of the cohesion funds, the Feder funds, because they are going to be transfer simply. Here what needs to be done is to put forward a series of projects that are competitive, well thought out, well studied and with a fund. I am glad that you have taken out of the Marshall plan, both the proposing group and I do not know whether Elkarrekin Podemos, as I am mistaken, have spoken of the Marshall plan, or the PSE. Well, the Marshall plan was a plan that conditioned the transfer of funds and so on to a liberalization of the economy, plus a fairly powerful liberalization. That, by the way, was what made the economy recover, based on the liberalization of the economy. I mean, if you want to set an example because it's okay for you to put in the Marshall plan, I really do second that. When I spoke before the extreme politicization that has the whole process, I mean precisely that. I think we have to select the projects according to objective criteria, and not through this territorial negotiation of "no, I send you mine and you such". This is the usual chrome change, it's the usual chrome change. "No, don't worry, it's going to be a selection of phenomenal, great projects." This is a bit like what Mr Azpiazu tells us in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, "the budget will be wonderful, they will have no choice but to support it". That's what Mr. Azpiazu thinks. But, man, I know, I mean, I think what we have to do here is to establish well what the criteria are and that's it. "No, listen, send me the proposals, we are open to receiving proposals and suggestions." Man, I'm delighted to send proposals, but that's what this debate is about: to be able to send proposals you always need to know under what conditions; a call, a selection methodology, what the evaluation criteria are going to be. If you give us this, in fact, we can send proposals, which is what we have left behind, the truth, with desire. But more than concrete proposals, above all, the worrying thing here is the process. They are going to be surprised, and it is not impossible that many of the incoming projects are not finally subsidised, because, I insist, here there is going to be an evaluation by the European institutions. This is not going to be the Feder funds and Europe is not going to allow this to be a repeat of Zapatero's Plan E. You'll see. That is why I believe, seriously, that the proposals we make from our group, which we are going to make and which we are going to circulate among the other groups as well, are a little in line. They are proposals, they are not proposals against anyone, they are proposals for everyone and, above all, they are for Euskadi and for transparency and rational and coherent use of these funds which have been approved, I insist again, at the cost of a debt that the future generation will have to pay. Firstly, to summarise – and with this I finish my speech – first of all, it is that we recognise, above all – and this is very important that we recognise – the European project. Europe is also at a time of crisis and it is important that from the public institutions we demand the importance of the European project. Here there are parties that then in Europe sit on the side of groups that are certainly not of the most Europeanists, no longer just Eurosceptics, but even contrary to the European Union itself. I believe that it is necessary for this Basque Parliament to position itself in favour of the European integration project as a project, moreover, that it is a project of collaboration, it is a project of coordination, it is a project of progress, it is a project of the future and, above all, it is a project of doing things rationally with data, with papers, with concrete objectives. It is also important, I think it is very important, that the methodology be made public as soon as possible, but the real methodology, according to which the projects that are going to compete for these European funds will be selected, both the projects themselves and what methodology has been used and making public all the documentation that has been handled by this inter-institutional commission that has created the Basque Government for this purpose. It is also very important that cooperation protocols be developed with the central Government and with the governments of the rest of the autonomous communities to establish or carry out better implementation of projects financed by this money, with these funds. It is also very important that we be consistent. We have the opportunity – before I said it, it seems to me that Mr Andueza, the spokesman for the PSE, said it very well – is an opportunity we have now and we must be ambitious in this regard, for, look, I am taking the floor. We are going to be ambitious and we are going to publish the timetable for the reforms that we really need, in line with the conclusions and proposals of the European Semester. It is also important that there is control of the Government in what will be the execution. The Government will have to designate an authority, which may be the Department of Economics, to be another authority, which is also responsible for monitoring the implementation of projects by the Executive, but above all to act as a liaison with the central Government, for coordination purposes. Well, it is also very important here that this Parliament is regularly made aware, but that it is not only that it comes here to appear – obviously we will already call it to the government the various groups – if it does not come with data, with information, with papers, to carry out a serious analysis of how the issue is going. And finally, I think it is very important also to send a clear message to both the citizens and the European institutions themselves that this whole process is going to be done specifically here in Euskadi, which is what we now have to do, but it would also be good for it to be done at national level in Spain, for an authority to be established, an agency that lasts for the duration of the implementation of these projects, may be eight, may be a little less than ten years, but an agency that is truly autonomous, independent and is responsible for monitoring the implementation of these projects. And that this body will also appear regularly – preferably every quarter – before this Parliament to report on how the implementation of these projects is going, which, I insist, are not the projects of this government, of the parliamentary group PNV, of the PSE, of the PP-Citizens, of none, these projects are the projects of the next generation, hence the name Next Generation EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u22	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. The group Elkarrekin Podemos has the floor. Mrs. Gorrotxategi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u23	Thank you, chief. Well, I think we all agree with one voice, that these are all the funds of the "Next generation" in order that we can do things better, and start the changes we need to produce, so that we can build another efficient system and build another society, to resist the evils we have, and to face the roots we have in the way we need. So, the historic opportunide, and it's up to us to take advantage of it or to let it go waste. And in order to take advantage of that, we must think very well, we shall have a great deal of money to deal with. What we're going to spend and what concrete projects we're going to have. That's what we have to think or what this town has to think about. So, what do we put on as a project to spend those money? Or take those money? But apart from this "what" and I think I have spoken of it before, and I wish again to remark that it is essential for us to examine what we are doing, for the procedure, in short, determines the "what" which is to be attained by the process of decision. He terms a lot. Eta, zentzu horretan, heifer, Europako Batzordeak berak esaten zuen, udan esaten zien gobernuei, statuetako gobernuei esaten zitzaien egin behar zela horixe... engage as soon as possible in a broad political dialogue involving all relevant stakeholders in the preparation of their recovery and resilience plans. As soon as possible, broad political dialogue, all stakeholders, in the preparation of recovery plans. How does that come back if we come here? How did he get back? Well, here was a mechanism of making these plans, a committee formed on the 27th of October. Klaro, the board, who are they? In the first place, the members of the EAJko and the Socialist Party, representatives, EAJs, and some mayors, even if we look at Eudeli, are of the same colour. And besides, we have no news of the work that works. You mentioned that he's talking to a lot of people, a lot of actors, a lot of associations... We do not know what they are, what they are, what they are saying, and how far we have read the acrobats of this interdeparal mechanism, they are mere Generalidas; that is, we are blind, we do not know what is going on. And in January, forgive me, in a few days, the plan, the first plan, must be ready. And we do not know where he will come from, how he is forming, who have the possibility of expressing himself. Nothing. The Assistant EAJ told me that he had been talking to one of us yesterday about it, and that you talked to one of us about it, that he would present your resolutions to-day. Today, while we're doing this plune, you can introduce to me at the same time, or you can offer us your proposals. A little late, a little late. We have made 66 resolution proposal. We've done a lot of work, and I'm sure we've all worked so hard to have our resolution funded. We're 66. When do we talk? If we have to vote those resolutions today, when are we going to talk to each other? When? How? There is no possibility. This isn't serious. It's just hypocrisy again, it's not serious. It's not an attempt to make a real conversation here. He has also said, "that this plenois does not give much of its course," but it does not furnish it with very effective naturalness. And he also said, Well, he spoke on the committee. If this is the whole space which the Government has in a single council, with a single discussion of general words, in order to hear and negotiate the initiatives and attitudes of others, it shows, in fact, how little, empty, is the controversy that can be created here. Orduan, Europak esaten zuen: "wide political dialogue with all involved". Well, Parliament is a daiteke ez of the sektore inplikatu bat gai Honen inguruan, ez daukala ezer interestingrik esateko. Dena her, gu themati gara, themati gara. We always go on, we come with the hope that the Government will show what is so boastful and so little practice. Put aside the roller and open the door to dialogue and genuine collaboration. Basically, what we came to ask them to do is open the doors, open the windows and listen, once and for all, to the whole of Basque society, not only to some of their friends, but to the whole of Basque society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u24	Gracias, señora Hatcher. I give the floor to the Socialist Group, Mr Andueza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u25	Thank you, chief. Well, I believe that, if there has been a common element among all opposition parties, it is that the accusation has been constant to the Government not to give opportunity to the different opposition groups to participate. The Government has been accused of deciding everything, that groups do not have the opportunity to evaluate and submit proposals. I believe that the exercise we are doing today is a perfect example of debate, of joint work and of giving the opposition groups an opportunity, precisely, to present their proposals, we can know them and we can discuss them. And I think that today, in the morning, a rather hasty, biased debate has been generated, and, if I am hastened, also mistaken, listening to some of the views of some opposition groups. Because I think it is unfair to talk about the lack of participation, the lack of knowledge of the groups in the House, of the projects that are going to be part of the Euskadi Next programme and this full monograph, as you said, is good proof of that. This is a contrasting exercise or should be a contrasting exercise, at least in the morning session, of knowing each one what goals it has and where the proposals to be presented this afternoon are going to go. On 29 December, the Governing Council will adopt a first version of the programme. I repeat, a first version of the program. From there, the Government of Spain has until 30 April to send its Recovery and Resilience Plan to the European Commission, so that it can value it and make the appropriate assessments. With which, I repeat, we are talking about a first version, i.e., it goes on. We are starting a process that is undoubtedly going to be long, which will last for years, if I hurry, and that we will have more than enough time to discuss, analyse and make proposals. That is to say, most of the non-repayable transfers from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, which is about 70%, which is the core of these European funds, have to be committed by the European Commission between 21 and 23; and the remainder can be implemented up to 26. So, tell me if we don't have time yet to discuss this issue. In any case, well, while autonomous and national governments are working on their plans, the Parliament and the European Council continue to fine-tune the criteria that each of the plans must meet. I mean, I repeat and repeat, there is still time, and this path has only begun. And as with the cohesion funds in the 1990s, I have no doubt that it is going to be the axis of European construction policy over the next decade. I mean, this is not a short-term thing, it is not a concrete moment, it is something that is going to be prolonged over time and that is going to most likely mark the political agenda of the coming years. Anyway, one of the things is already being done, in fact, like the ICO lines. I mean, this isn't going to start making up now, but there are even things that are already being done, it's not going to start looking for projects under the rocks, because there are even many projects that already have their foundation set, that are already developed, that is, they have a solid foundation on which we can work. And in some cases, we even talk about executed lines that are going to be reimbursed in a short period of time. That is to say, the amalgamation of projects, the amalgamation of opportunities is very broad, we are not talking about something closed, something concrete, something that has to be decided from today to tomorrow. Finally, I believe that I have said this in my initial speech, the European funds are going to be provided, they are going to be made available on the basis of the credibility of the plans presented, and that is where the responsibility of the government really comes in, but also the responsibility of the opposition groups. This is going to force us all, absolutely everyone, to be serious and to present projects that are realistic, that are viable and that, in fact, are in line with the needs we really have and the purpose that has made the European Commission decide to get involved in this situation and to allocate that negligible nothing amount of EUR million in order to be able to emerge strengthened from this crisis. I therefore believe that we all have a responsibility to work things well and to work them rigorously. There was talk of methodology; finally, I believe that coordination itself between governments and between institutions is a good methodology; which does not mean that the participation of political groups and other collectives and other entities is being neglected. Not at all. But I think it's a good base, it's a good base. And that very dialogue that governments have with those groups, with those movements, at last, I think it is already a good basis for dialogue to settle an agreement, let's say, country. Moreover, I know that the Government is not only willing to do so, but is already doing so, and that there will be time to discuss, evaluate, correct what is needed. This is gonna take a long time. This is gonna take a long time. I therefore believe that it is everyone's responsibility to work together. And the results, undoubtedly, if you work well, if you work rigorously and seriously, will be beneficial to everyone. I certainly have no doubt about that. My doubt is that if the Government had opened from the outset a participatory process to decide, the Government would probably have been accused of not having initiative, of not having direction, of not knowing where it would have to go. I mean, the flank of criticism for the opposition is always going to be there. And it is legitimate and respectable, but I would already like to know what you would have said if that methodology had been another. And I believe that the methodology that is being followed by this Government, like the one that is being followed by the Government of Spain, is the right one, is the right one and is the most beneficial for all and for all. Finally, I believe that most of the speeches we have heard in the first speech by the opposition groups, at a very high percentage, have been aimed at criticising the government. What was the object of this full monograph? Work on the projects we have to present in the Next Generation or criticize the government? That is my doubt, because if, of course, the object or intention of the groups or of the group that has requested this full monograph is to criticize the Government, we have just begun. We have just begun, and I think it is a mistake, because today's plenary must be an opportunity to lay the foundations. It has to be a full proposition. A proactive full, not a full that is used to criticize the Government and the groups we support that Government. You came today to criticize the government, not to discuss the projects, at least so far. And I speak for myself, I speak for others, I speak for myself. Of course, the tone that has been used in some cases, of course, I do not think it contributes, even, to the agreement itself or to laying the foundations for what the agreement should be, or, at least, what we need to discuss here today. And I think it is a mistake, because we have lost a whole morning, we have lost a whole morning that we should have used to contrast ideas, to contrast the bases that move us to each one, the objectives that we consider each of the political groups that we are represented in this House to present the projects that we have so much talked about. Some groups, of course, with much more concreteness than the opposition groups that they so much want to present their projects, but which, of course, in the morning session have not said much about what they are going to present. Some group, even, which, by the way, is now absent from the House, has said that it has 66 proposals to put forward. For they have lost a precious time that most likely in the afternoon they lack to explain all the goodness of the projects and the proposals they are going to present. It would have been far more productive if those groups had already brought us these concrete proposals this morning to know specifically what we are talking about, not what their opinion or criticism of the work being done by this Government. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that, from the socialist side of this Government, of course, there is a full will to work, hand in hand, an absolute willingness to dialogue, to work together and, of course, to work responsibly, so that the projects that we are presenting are not only credible, they are not only realistic, but above all they are valid in order to take advantage of an opportunity that, I repeat and repeat, I believe is historic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u26	Thank you, Mr. Andueza. I give the floor to the representative of the Basque Nationalist group. Mrs. Berrojalbiz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Otero, they throw the stone and then pretend to hide the hand. If I take pride in defending this Government and its actions, it is because, over and over again, it is unwarrantedly attacked, criticized and questioned. And all this is legitimate to do, of course it is, but you do it with evil. Not with the intention of helping and collaborating, but of sinking, embarrassing and wearing down. Whether with the funds, with the pandemic, or with any other matter that turns into your political battle. Learn to think more about this society and not what is right for you as a party, because we would all do much better. We defend a government from its unjust and untrue criticisms. In any case, we have a date on the calendar, on 21 December, when this government, at the Governing Council, will approve its project report, its first version, for European funding under the European Union's Next Generation Plan. The process, therefore, has not been completed by far. We can help this Government, this country, but not by changing from the top down what has already been built and the management carried out. It has been an open, participatory, consulted process. There's been a lot of agents you're talking to and working with. Have you heard them question this model? Despite everything, we know that it can be improved. All groups can contribute, but does Bildu want to agree? Because, normally, in this type of debate the proposing group shares its proposals to facilitate further negotiation. That was not the case. We are a modern, advanced society, with a marked course, a good course that will lead us, if we succeed, to overcome this crisis and transform our society towards a greener, more solidarity, more digital society. We've got to get it right and we'll do it. If the Next Generation initiative had emerged from Euskadi, the socialization would probably have been different. But that wasn't the case. And until this Friday, until last week, the funds were in danger. Aid depends on three institutional levels and is highly complex. The structure of the funds empowers the states and, subsequently, the autonomous communities to coordinate them on the ground. It is the structure we have found ourselves given by, from Brussels. And, apart from political demands, the goal in this complex and tight timetable is for them to land in Euskadi as many funds as possible. Again, the road we took from EAJ was that of the builder of construction. Let us show and explain the petty markets in Europe, and explain the solutions to the rest of Europe. To win prestige, to be trustworthy, to offer something, and this road has given its fruits. As for the rest, the European Committee's reconnaissance of the Basque I+G or the President himself in Brussels, as I have said before, an unprecedented event. This, of course, is not sufficient to ensure the record of nations, and above all to ensure their decisiveness in Europe. The Board of Regions, which I have already said, is not as operational as we would like to be in this work. I insist upon our way again: in our country, where the little market-place we do well to explain to Europe, where it is to be trusted, and to which it belongs to the builder of surrender, for example, the Europe, the several degrees of government, and the scheme of co-workership which we require in this day of the legislature. Europe in general is an opportunity to bring peace and progress into our peoples, but every opportunity may lead threats. That of the centralization or of homogeneization. In this continuous evolution we must be on our guard as a people, keeping as much as possible in Europe. And in this line, the manner of supporting them is also the reflection of the structure of Europe, the reflection of Europe. We all have challenges, all of us who live in a stateless country, and we must all begin our work. Euskadi, lehen esan doubt bezala, is prepared to contribute his experience and be able to participate in the development of these funds. We have done so in the past with other European programmes and we will do so now. We have a clear position in Europe. Euskadi has a history, recognition and a productive sector that is working on future projects, as I said before, from automotive to aeronautics, energy, machine tool, naval sector, transport. Beyond the COVID, our sectors and institutions are moving and Euskadi can contribute many solvent projects to apply these European funds in the recovery and modernization of the economy. The member states are the gateway to the funds, but the autonomous governments are the pilot of that recovery attached to the territorial reality. Since the summer, as I said before, the Basque Government has been working on the selection and identification of projects. And this work is vital, because we know that it does not serve any project. They must be large projects, mature projects, which generate employment and have a transformative effect. It has received, as I have also told you before, many contributions from many actors, institutions, business confederations, trade unions, chambers of commerce, financial institutions, cooperatives, anonymous labour companies. And I could go on. We are therefore talking about contrasting projects under the umbrella of a participatory model. Therefore, you will tell me where the aberrant lack of collaboration and social contrast is, as is shown here today. But, in addition, the conceptual and strategic framework defined by the Basque Government incorporates the proposals presented, among other parties, by EH Bildu. Look, the other day Mr. President told you so too. On November 6th you had a meeting with the president, where you gave your 123 measures and a document of proposal to the president, where it was only 22 with the funds. No concrete proposal, nothing in the budget, no calendar proposal. And in the large proposals made, you made four demands: the model and transparency of government, to act as a people, to be part of the moody projects, and to reach every degree of administration. Your request is being chatted. You see, Mr. Otero, you will have your opinion, but not the facts. Therefore, we ask you to put aside this demagogic position, since, if it were for you, we would be out of business. They know it's not easy to manage the pandemic. It is not something that affects Euskadi alone; there is nothing else to look around. But we will continue to manage with rigour, with consensus, agreements and transparency, as we have done so far. Then another tip, I don't know where I've got it... The Mrs. Hatch, three little things. The handling of most of the organizations at that table is not political or corrupt practice. It's just a reflection of the legislature which the people have decided. About work, Mr. Soto and I know what we're talking about, and that's where I'll leave it. Estamos ante eerna de siempre entre decisivea y la búsqueda de la effica ejecutiva. Este caso se ha dice con la flurmula de la coordinción interinstineal. I'll stay there. She's amaitzeko, nik you had to be born behar of mezua. Eta guk, Euzko Alderdi Jeltzaletik, from the Basque Nationalist Party, we appeal to you for political responsibility, especially in an extremely serious situation like the one we are living in. All this noise and these questions do not push us towards Europe; quite the contrary. And if we all want to move forward and look to the future with optimism, we will work together, from a proposed vision of improvement, thinking of the good of society, of our economy, of our industry, of the generations that the witness will take from us. We have a huge opportunity to raise a green, digital and more supportive Euskadi. An opportunity to transform ourselves as a country. There has been no precedent in Europe, and we must be very well positioned. The work of the Government in collaboration with social and economic actors is in this direction. If all of us bring our hands, our experience, our reflections, we will be helping in positive. Until this afternoon's vote, we have a few hours ahead of us to work together. I offer you this exercise. In this party you will find a sincere availability for the agreement. We hope to find her in the rest, too. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbiz. After the group speaking time, if the information I have is correct, it is appropriate to give time to present the resolutions to the Register and suspend to resume the debate at a later date. As I am told, this is the part of the information, all groups already have the resolutions prepared. Therefore, it seems that 30 minutes from now to submit the resolutions to the Register would be sufficient; that is, it would end at 13:45. And the plenary will resume at three and four o'clock. Okay? Thank you very much. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twelve. At three-thirty-six o'clock in the evening the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u29	Good afternoon. Let's resume the plenary session. According to the presentation of the resolutions in the Register, the Joint Group will intervene first; then Elkarrekin Podemos; then Bildu; then Popular-Citizens Party; Basque Socialists and Basque Nationalists. The Joint Group therefore has the floor. Mrs. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u30	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The resolutions that have been recorded by the Joint Group, Vox, revolve around the fundamental aspects that I have outlined in my previous interventions and that can be summed up in: let us not lose focus, the foot with reality, the country is Spain. Spain can compete and not 17 autonomy. The involvement of non-government actors in the development of the Next Generation fund-raising plan should be encouraged and facilitated. Legal changes are needed to make project funding possible. The Basque Government has a responsibility to ensure territorial equality and to allocate the largest amount of aid to the sectors most affected by the crisis, municipalities, neighbourhoods... all to fight against a pandemic that is global, which is certainly not local. And now everything seems to indicate that the Next Generation funds are going to serve for 17 different economic models to develop in Spain, in a dispute between autonomous communities to catch the best piece of cake, and we all know what these fights translate into: amigoism, corruption and pillage. That is why we have tabled a resolution so that the objective is a single plan for the whole of Spain, based on solidarity with those most affected by the crisis, regardless of where they live. Provide maximum participation. In other words, managing a plan behind the back of society can only result in something alien to the general interests, and that is what this government, the parties that make up it, is doing. There is no participation that is not yours, neither of the municipalities, nor of the unions, nor of the employers, and even less of the companies that this crisis is putting at risk. And I'm sure they also have a lot to say, contributions glued to the ground, to the reality that our community is living. But that should not be the end of this executive's stake in participation. In Vox we consider that universities also have a lot to say in this process, especially when it comes to making a serious and impartial assessment of those projects that can be funded with Next Generation funds. Adapting our regulation is another point. I understand that you know that our legal framework is not prepared to implement projects under the conditions set out in the Economic Recovery and Resilience Plan, and this is an issue that requires maximum attention in the area of existing public procurement legislation. Without addressing a modification of this one, it will be impossible to implement investments and develop projects, and it is also urgent to analyse formulas for improving the efficiency of the public sector to mitigate the deterioration of public expenditure and its effect on the deficit of our Autonomous Community resulting from the extraordinary expenditure incurred during the management of the crisis of COVID-19. We also need to think about territorial equality and aid where they are most needed. In my previous interventions I have already pointed out that, once again, the government parties point out ways, show their intention to prioritize investments in Bizkaia, to the detriment of Álava and Gipuzkoa, provinces in which their weight and presence are smaller. It's something that comes from afar and to what we're not willing to get used to. It is an inexcusable responsibility of this Executive to ensure territorial equality. That the virus has proved not to understand of municipalities, provinces or autonomous communities, that the crisis has plagued the three Basque provinces alike. And it must be borne in mind that this punishment has been particularly cruel for the services sector in the Basque Country, for tourism and for hospitality. However, everything seems to indicate that the Government has a strong intention of prioritizing investments in industry and agriculture, infrastructure and research, leaving aside some of the thousands of people living in the Basque Country from the activity to which I have referred, and they have also been treated as the scapegoat of the pandemic, entrepreneurs and families to whom they have become pagans of the crisis. In short, the resolutions put to the vote by Vox pursue a single model of country; ensure territorial equality of projects and investments; concentrate aid on the sectors that have suffered the most from the crisis, which are also the ones that have the greatest weight on Basque GDP; promote maximum participation and transparency in the process and provide us with the appropriate legal framework to make possible the implementation and financing of the corresponding plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. You have the floor for Elkarrekin Podemos, Mr. Soto.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u32	Good morning to everyone and everyone. To say that here in the morning certain things have been said here that have made us and us quite stupefied. It has come to be said at some point – indeed, the Councillor has said this – that the parliamentary groups have the same information as the government in relation to what corresponds to the European funds, and this is clearly false. To this day we do not know with which collectives the Basque Government has met for the definition of that list that will be sent on the 29th day; what criteria have been followed for meeting with these business or social collectives; where those meetings have been held and, in turn, we also do not know what criteria have been followed beyond that they have met with the three municipalities of the Basque capitals; what criteria have been followed in the case of Eudel to take into account the municipalities of that country in their definition of the project document to be sent on the 29th day. It has also been reported here that there is a clearly defined model of participation and collaboration in line with what has been approved here by the parliamentary groups supporting the Basque Government. Nor is it true, we do not know what the model of participation and collaboration is, at least with regard to the parties represented here and that we are part of the opposition. The only time we have had real participation and the capacity to present projects has been this, today, and it has not been at the request of the Government or the parties that support it. Yes, it has been said, last week the Committee on the Economy, Finance and Budgets, which discussed various issues, including, it seems, who the Basque Government had met to define those criteria and also how those conclusions had been reached. Well, this is... I suppose it's like an analogy to the resolutions that the PNV and the Socialist Party have presented to us, basically they are a copy and affixing of the guidelines that the European Union has verbalized on how these European funds have to be defined, but without any kind of own consideration or specification as to what here, in Euskadi specifically, is going to be done or done or what criteria have been used. That is basically the conclusion that we have drawn from the resolutions that we have read from the groups that support the Basque Government, and they are basically the same conclusions that we have drawn from the committee: that we were told what we already knew, what we already knew and what is public. Beyond that, what has been the process that the Basque Government has followed until today, even today, we do not know. The only thing we know, and it was something that was verbalized by the various opposition groups also in that committee and today it will surely be said again because it has already been said today in the morning, the only thing we know is the list that was presented in the summer. In fact, the list that was presented in summer is the genesis of this monograph. The most predictable thing is that, if that initial listing had not been made in the summer and we would not have found ourselves months later with that filtration, with that interpellation and subsequent full in which that motion was discussed, surely we would not be here today. Because, probably, the parties that support the Basque Government would not have had to be directly questioned in that plenary, in which the motion of the parties that support the municipal government, that is, the Basque Government, – sorry, that I come from the municipal sphere and sometimes I leave myself – was approved, we would not have been in this monographic plenary today, nor would we have adopted a text in which it was verbalized that a mechanism of participation and collaboration was to be established, which I insist today, we do not know. Moreover, because of the deadlines we are in, the most predictable thing is that what comes forward here today does not have a material virtuality either. I mean, I don't know the criteria that come up here today how they're going to change what's supposed to be already defined; that's the document that's going to be sent to the Government of Spain on the 29th. Because, of course, if there is nothing on the part of the Basque Government today about what is going to be sent to the Spanish Government, because it is almost worse, it is almost worse not to have it done today than not having taken us into consideration. And, therefore, we assume that there will be something, but we do not know it. And, of course, we have not been able to make anything clear from the resolutions either. The Karrekin Podemos-IU, beyond the proposals that it has made – and that part of them has finally negotiated with EH Bildu, as regards the control of the awards once the funds have arrived and also from the previous process that it would have had to exist or should have existed – we have also presented, it is true, a battery of proposals, knowing and being fully aware that it would have been ideal – well, rather, not so ideal, because that is to mark a utopian framework – it would have been the same that all those proposals that we have submitted could have been evaluated in a space that was not a full monographic. We have had to bring it here, we have had to bring these material and content proposals here, because there has been no other forum allowed for us to propose those content proposals. None. But, on the other hand, it seems that there have been business and social actors who have indeed had a forum to be able to contribute to that outcome document. I would urge you, please, to verbalize what this forum has been and who specifically has been able to provide this document, and that when this document is sent and made public once it is passed by the Governing Council, which, please, will say specifically what these projects are, which come from the business sphere, from the different social groups, I imagine that there will be no trade unions among the proponents, but in any case it will be specified. Of the 66 resolutions, excluding, let's say, those that have given rise to the transaction with EH Bildu and which basically because they propose, I say, a different system of collaboration and articulation of common proposals, in that country project that should have been the project that will be sent from the Basque Government to the Government of Spain, say that – and I am going to make a brief list here – we believe that they are important, for example, those relating to the transformation of public care services in Euskadi. We also verbalized that in the committee. We believe that, well, it should not have been difficult to reach agreement on this issue, because, in fact, in the committee itself it was said that this was one of the axes that the Spanish Government had incorporated and that they did not come among the axes that the European Union had established, and that the Basque Government also incorporated this axis of work. But it has not been possible, because we have not, I say, been able to deal with these resolutions. We were planning a new economy of care and employment policies; a pact for science, innovation and the strengthening of the health system and for education and continuing training; a plan for the digitisation of public education in Euskadi, we assumed that it would not have been very difficult to reach agreements on this issue either, that such a plan would cover all stages of education from 0 to 3 years to the UPV, which would consist of the digitisation of classrooms, the facilitation of the electronic means necessary for the whole student, prioritizing those who, due to income issues, are experiencing it worse. We were also setting up a fund for business continuity in crisis, agreeing and reorienting certain activities to new market niches. Nor do we think it would have been difficult to reach agreement on this issue if we had had the forum and the space to do so. We planned to reactivate degraded areas or those that today suffer from high unemployment rates, Ezkerraldea, Meatzaldea, Oarsoaldea. Transform the Basque Institute of Finance into a public bank, the rescue of La Naval. And, on the other hand, we also intended to prohibit investment in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. That today, by the way, we have heard the news from today to tomorrow that the Socialist Party in Álava has expressed itself against this initiative, and the truth is that we welcome the news, and we hope that it will also be the beginning, here in the Basque Parliament, of agreements on such matters. But this was a resolution that we also raised. Minimum percentages of investment at the municipal level, which we do not believe would have been difficult to agree on, because other political formations have been publicly announcing that they were also involved in this work. An advisory council to include social partners and experts, ex post facto, in the follow-up to the Basque Government's proposals. Control mechanisms, I said earlier, to monitor aid recipients and to verify that they comply with the rules in force. In addition, investment in the public sector should be encouraged, i.e. to devote a significant part of these European funds to projects that are led from the public sector, and to reduce the capacity to make use of these funds to those companies that capitalise on the Stock Exchange. And it would be a long list, but, well, basically, we're going to find a block "no" on the part of the groups that support the government. In this sense, we are very sorry and it seems to us that, thus, it will be difficult to build majorities of country, which will allow to generate the necessary bases of recovery in Euskadi. For my part, I won't extend much longer. I believe that I reiterate the idea that there are basically two plans here. One that has to do with processes and control systems. And, in that sense, I believe that, practically, the opposition groups or all the opposition groups, both in the committee last week and here today, have already verbalized insistently rather than, that it has not been the proper channel that the Basque Government has marked. Indeed, today, we still do not know what certain methodologies have been used by the Basque Government for that definition of projects that are going to give of themselves, the final document. And then, on the other hand, there's the content section. I do not want to go into all the resolutions we have tabled on this. We are convinced that other formations have very interesting contents and proposals to be able to present. Unfortunately, there will be no forum in Euskadi, beyond this, to be able to address what has to do with practical content and materials that could be transferred to that final document. And, in that sense, to say that we, from now until the 29th, and we no longer know with what virtuality, will continue with the hand extended in order to be able to address certain of those criteria that we have presented here today, as valid proposals and incorporate in that final document that is sent on the 29th. We insist, we continue to shake hands so that, if it is not today, at least in the coming weeks there is this will, but that it is real, so that we can move certain initiatives to that definitive document, and that this is a project of all, because, of course, what is going to come out of here today with negative block votes to proposals from the opposition parties do not denote or reflect anything new in the way in which the Basque Government or the parties supporting it conceive of the agreements in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Soto. You have the floor, for the Bildu group, Mr Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u34	Good afternoon, everyone. We begin this morning by saying monographica that we have some reasons for doing this, that the importance, the need of light, and that we are in a decisive moment. We retake our first thesis. But even if we said it, we wanted to use it to open a closed can, I think it won't be done today, because there seem to be so many things left to us this morning. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On December 9th the plan was rather clear, with a decision to hide everything until 29. And today the President himself has marked his course with the decision of not coming to the monographiccle, not his respect for the Basque Country, but the whole legislature. We've proposed a democratic discussion today, just like the ones we've brought up. But the Jeltarian Party, from Mrs. Berrojalbuz's mouth, had preferred to throw it down rather than to point out the question about your political project and what is at stake. You've underestimated the function of the parliament, and it's not a good thing to say about your development. As Mr Andueza said, the opposition has not been given the option to table a debate, but it has been the opposition that has led to this attempt at debate. And besides, a work that has not existed has been intended to sell a harmonious interaction. Radical expressions, the most multiple economic agents, are illuminating. And, look inside, yes, on pillows, and many big, ercical companies have been an earthquake against the original intentions of myM. We know, and you know it. The morning speech of the Jeltzad Party, with all the mud it has brought, bringing here the ugliest traditions of the Spanish right of Madrid, in which most of the time it reveals a kind of matter which has been reduced to an opposition in opposition: There was a lack of the generalal project, and, worse still, a lack of design for each other. After what we have seen and heard in the morning, we still have doubts as to whether there will be sufficient funds for such necessary transformation. Of course, what has become clear is that there is not enough PNV for the challenge we face. We have been criticized for making unjustified attacks on the Government. Has it occurred to anyone to talk, even a minute, about the process actually followed? A process in which we do not yet know what the contribution framework is offered to us. Yes, we are required to work constructively. I warned him the first day I talked about this, if co-responsibility is requested, co-decision must be offered. And here you're asking for blind adherence to a plan you're not going to teach us. It's unheard of. We're told that the construction facility has been built. How do I know? We haven't got any calls yet. And it was also said that there have been many agents consulted, and he was rhetorically wondering whether they have been heard complaining. Easy answer, spoiler : yes. You have to be very deaf for not having heard of the earthquake that has formed with the subject. We have been accused of attacking the Government, because, of course, calling for a clear and valued framework for participation in this process is a scandal for the governance model that some manage. You know, it's a pretty good opportunity to open up this process in the morning. He hasn't announced anything in that sense. We're still looking for the neighborhood. What happened? He who made the call for the neighborhood hasn't shown up in the neighborhood. Eta goizekoaz, azken kontu bat. Ulertu dezakegu diskrepantziak ditugula, inkluso onartu dezaket zuk, Berrojalbiz andrea, eztabaida lokatzetara bideratzen saiatzea, zuen proyektu politicokoaren ahuleziak tapatzeko. Even, even if it sprays the delirious, you can come to understand, listen to continued defamations, which are said to be free, that are not really their own or Batzoki commentary. You're missing phrases like, "if it were for you, we'd be out of business." I mean, think about what he's saying. You can be politically as dirty as you want, Berrojalbiz, you'll see. But what we don't happen to her is that she's a liar, and she has been. And it has been. On Friday we met and agreed that we would exchange the motions for resolutions on Monday. On Sunday night you told us that it could not be, that you would not send us your proposals and that, therefore, we would not send you ours and that Wednesday at noon we would see them. And today he accused us here of not sending him the proposals in advance so that we could discuss them. And that's where we don't pass. And this has to be rectified. I'm asking you. It's not all worth it. And each one's political credit is played out in every detail. It's not worth lying about. We're not going to talk about the prepotence we've seen this afternoon. We will not say that we have a definite and perfect proposition for European funds. We have made a plan, and we had integrity to share it, to dispute, to agree, and to continue to cultivate what we could. That's it. If we didn't have another frame, we ordered a monograph to talk here. But in the evening of December 9th of Subauzu, it was clear that there would be no discussion about the projects. The list is locked, they won't negotiate, and you've got your goal. he will not speak of it. This is no longer a discussion about projects, or at least from us, since you didn't want to. Therefore, our resolutions are those about the standard of funds and those of general criteria, which, if you do not release the ball, it is plain there is no course here. And our resolutions went that way. We've registered 13 resolutions. The first, about four leading principles: the idea of the active state, the feminist glance, the principle of "no harm to the planet," and the employment of quality, which is to be done within it. Secondly, to complete the EAE-level management of the funds which Europe will separate, by the intervention of all the agents, political, institutional, or sociative. And the third resolution, the opening of the stable road to political dialogue and negotiations between political parties. These two solutions are for us clave solutions. If you don't accept these, you don't leave us a game any more. We have more. We say that this is the case with political parties by means of this stable path for the work of the legislature, the conversation, and the political negotiation, to unite and defend the projects of the default, in Madrid and Brussels, it may be granted. Fifthly, that it is necessary to ensure the welfare of men, and to modify the model of production, to be as much independent as possible, and to perform directly intercrossing with Europe. I heard something like that in the morning. And also the Esquimic Autonomy of Euscalia, the Navarre, and the North Esscal, to attempt to connect them by means of their Region, by means of their projects. We propose to refuse, to acquire funds, the protection of persons, the modification of the economic model, and every condition which can endanger or threaten the cohesion of the people. And we demand that 30% of the possible funds from Europe come to us in order to be guided by the townships. Not only this, but another resolution about it: not only 30% routes to councils, but apply objective criteria for the distribution of the amount of money which will be directed to the councils, in order not to distribute them at any rate. Tenthly, by the options of the projects, the default of the public or public community. And therefore let the projects which are founded on them be more than half, being more than half the total sum of money required. Good evening, Mr. Urkullu. Eleventhly, let him establish clear criteria and conditions for private public assistance in conjunction with institutions, political or social. The latter, in the whole administration of the European funds, require the attention and strict observance of public utility, the guarantee of public administration. And finally, in order to have a direct and rapid solution of the projects, to take immediate measures, this arrangement is to prevent, in a great measure, the administrative organs which are to take upon itself, the Euscal organization of energy, the Esquila organization, the "water, SPRIRI, Profession," and so on. These were our proposals. We've seen the EAJs, and of course we don't see much of the way, because after all a reflection, which may be logical in part, is about what you have proposed. We don't agree with the case, so we can't agree with the resolutions. And the only attempt you've made, having an appurtenance to our first resolution, and a preparation for our sixth resolution, which is strictly due to the interest of their wishes, has been forgotten by you to speak of their inheritance, in order to accept them, but to extract political discussion from our amendments. That's our goal today or our essence today, so it's very difficult to get ahead of it. But we talked to Podemus. And for us, and in this sense we are content to agree on a matter which is essential, it is a matter of medium solution, but really it is that we, to-day, receive the substance of what we seek, and, in a certain sense, demand that we form a stable and permanent means for political conversation and negotiation. And then, defending the agreed projects, Madrid or Brussels, and creating a tracking committee. In the end, for us, that is the frame of government, or what we intended to establish. Therefore, in this sense we agree; it seems to us important. And that it is true, as we have said, by the decision of Subabazus, that there is no dispute about the exact projects, there is no room for such a dispute. Now, about the exact propositions made by Podemos, we shall not think that we must first have this political plan of discussion, and with a little more tranquillity, one by one, we may probably be able to determine several matters, and we shall also make our proposals to the desktop. As long as this frame is not there, we don't get into it. And we haven't even joined the projects. We didn't go in. And we don't have a project. We have said in the last few months that we've been working on this story very long, wide, with our power, humility, and humility. And we have made our classification of those which are supposed to be the three main axes; The ecological transition, the digital transition, the social and economic resilitivity. And if we have in it 30 proposals, it seems to us that this production of prospation, imagination should be made, and we have tried to do it by this, 2030. a collective projecting exercise to represent the Basque Country which we deserve in the year. Because this society, as we know it today, is not viable. It's not tolerable from the point of view of demography, from the point of view of economics, from the standpoint of justice, from ecology, to life. Now, as the members of the Aubix Fundation have said, we are face to face with a inevitable and menacing boundary. There's an opening, it's spreading, it's getting better than his parents and his grandparents, and when he gets into growing old and growing young and mature, he's been robbed of the certainty of the generations. They are going fast, the changes are happening around us, the ground looks stable, and not just because of the COVID. We've just asked ourselves a few new questions. Excitement, increase of differences, precharization of life conditions, challenge, emigration, crisis of migration, the new challenges that bring us digitalization. From the teaching left by the past crisis, studied, learned from the ones they left behind, what's above is more than a crisis, understood as a transition. We have carried out a collective political entrepreneurship exercise, which seeks to get away from nostalgias, from longing times that will not return. To recover the previous economic growth that was built on vital precariousness and climate collapse, and that, as we pointed out, incorporates many of the components that explain the origin of what we are experiencing. As I have said before, we have undertaken to write the first stropha of a decisive transformation. 20th a second half of the century's transformation by process, answering the mills of the times, giving new answers, and giving the people the 21st. the collective ambition to dream of conquest. In order to understand development, communal vision and equal impulse, inspiration and strength. We've been working on organic transitions, digital transition and social and economic resilitivity projects. In our simple country, the collection of projects that offer a new compass to this country. We make the civilizing challenge that is planned by the emergency, and the project to start with a rapid soecological and adulation required by the solution of it, from the radical choice of land and life, from the conviction of what is necessary for all of us in prosperity, all our common energy and resources in the same way as that of the iotum of the earth, and which they seek to activate in order to ensure the permanent welfare of future and future generations. The conceptal frame is clearly clear. If we have a political will, we are in time to establish a frame of rational government, which is to come to serve the general interest. But I don't know, Mr. Sub-you may have reached this point, as you said, I don't know if there's much more to say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u35	Thank you, Mr. Otero. I give the floor to the People-Citizens Group, Mr Gordillo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u36	Good. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. Mr. Lehendakari. The discussion that we had, monographic, convened for today, revolved around the definition and strategic orientation of priority projects for Euskadi within the framework of European funds for recovery, known as Next Generation. This morning we heard positions of the different groups, with different models, models in which they believe that the selection of the projects has to be of a dialogian type, dialogue... or alternative words can be sought between the different territorial entities; there are other versions that suggest that projects have to be selected in accordance with more or less negotiated procedures. What we have always proposed is, above all, that projects be made, and the selection of projects is made with a methodology that always implies maximum transparency. That is the main element that we want to underline and, in fact, is one of the fundamentals, or the main foundation, of the proposals that we are putting forward here this afternoon. Look, the situation before us is a very complicated, very complex situation, I don't have to tell the members of this House, and we all know that. Europe has been the way of salvation of our Community, of Euskadi, of Spain, on many occasions, this morning we have said this, the Feder funds, the cohesion funds, the issues relating to the Stability Pact, the financial crisis... And above all, putting a stop to certain populist tendencies that can coexist with the Government of Spain at some point. And we there, the truth is that, after the debate, we continue to reaffirm that there is a great need for commitment to Europe. That is why – and I want to be really brief, because I believe that all the groups have already expressed their whole vision – our eight proposals are focused on three fundamental axes: firstly, the demand for Europe. Secondly, this Parliament's claim also has to be a logical body of control over the government and to which the relevant explanations are given as to what is the management of the public, in general, and, above all, on this issue as important as that relating to European funds. And then, finally, thirdly, our proposals also revolve around seeking the maximum efficiency and effectiveness in the use of these funds. And for that we also believe that it is important to claim a control body, a specific independent, autonomous control body, made up of experts, real experts in the field, in the management of public policies, that controls it. That is why we believe it is very important to remember and claim that Europe – I have said it several times this morning, I do not want to repeat myself much – but it is not an automatic cashier, a hedgehog that is simply used to draw money when you need to pay for the usual policies that any State or any Administration can have, but in this case, what is required of us is to carry out a series of important reforms, a series of reforms that really mean a change for the next generation, which is the one that gives name to this project. That is why we in our group are still holding hands, because we believe that it is important to carry out a number of fundamental reforms. Synthetically, we believe – we have also developed it this morning, but it is appropriate to synthesize it now – we believe that projects have to go on a fivefold path. First, we must create quality jobs for the digital age, this is very important; turn our society into a global reference in education; take advantage of this ecological transition to lead the green economy; return our health to the global leadership position that should never have been abandoned and finally have and provide an effective, efficient and, above all, transparent digital administration. In this respect, the proposals that we have recorded in the Bureau of the House – in this gap that we have had throughout the morning – revolve around this issue, perhaps the most important one, and which is fortunately, by virtue of an agreement – I thank, of course, Mrs Zabala and Mrs Berrojalbiz, I thank them for their willingness to, from the difference, of course, that we have them, but at least to try to reach, perhaps, a minimum or a minimum agreement – around an issue that is very important to us, which is that the selection of projects is always made by using the principles of transparency and competitiveness, and that is always seeking the capacity of these projects to revive the economy and create employment, ensuring interterritorial balance. For us this would be a good synthesis of what should be sought with these projects. That is why we, from here, want to claim this European methodology which, I insist, is not a methodology simply to expect transfers from the autonomous communities in Spain, to get angry and to fight or to compete for simply a few funds, to see who comes first. No, no, They have to be projects really, there has to be a competition and a competition, but to achieve the best projects, always in a framework of collaboration between the administrations, between all the autonomous communities, and also with the central administration, with the State administration. This is the proposal we make, these are the proposals that we have put forward in the various institutions, conservative and liberal, which we also collaborate with in the Government of Europe, in the European Commission, in the European Parliament, and from there we also force the European Commission to present this programme for the reconstruction of Europe, after the coronavirus. By summarizing a lot, I also wanted to make some mention of the rest of the proposals. Well, just, then in the vote, we'll see. But, come on, in any case, I was drawn to the list of proposals that the Elkarrekin Podemos group had. Come on, without demerit or anything, but it turns out I've seen there that there were sixty-six so many proposals they've put forward. I do not know, I think that in order to analyse those proposals which were, above all, I think that more than regarding what the general framework should be, the methodology of project selection, they were like questions, for I know, sometimes more related to local policy, as the spokesman, Mr Soto, said earlier, or questions relating to very specific situations. But, man, a project has to be, not a paraphernalia, not a paragraph, I don't want to demerge at all, not just a summarized paragraph, but, man. I, therefore, was saying this morning, listen, to present projects, I think the reasonable thing is to follow the normal method. Which one is it? Well, look, you tell me what are the requirements, the call, what are the objectives, what are the objectives, what are the objectives, what is the funding, what is the implementation time, what is the possible co-financing, etc., etc. It is that if there is no process and if there is no methodology for receiving projects, in this case, man, because yes, we can also present a battery of 100, 200, 300 proposals that, basically, can be our electoral program. But, man, I think that, what it was about today – I insist, a question of my interpretation – but I think that, what it was about today, above all, was to lay a little groundwork for what should be the selection of these types of projects. That is why I insist on the three fundamental points on the part of our group, which are the demand for Europe; secondly, the demand for this Parliament as well, as a monitoring body. It is true that the Government has a very comfortable majority, which, of course, I imagine makes parliamentary work very easy for it, of course. But, man, in other parliamentary systems, for example, the British, the presidency of Parliament usually guarantees equal times to the opposition as to the government, despite the fact that the government has far more seats than the opposition. It is a subject, a British convention, which has to do with what effective control of the Government is. But, well, we believe that, as we have said, Parliament, and in particular the Committee on the Economy, Finance and Budgets, believe that it is the ideal place where, perhaps from the beginning, an ad hoc committee could have been set up with it, or with any other committee, to, above all, keep the information, the channel of information with the legislative power, which in the end has to approve budgetary matters. And finally, also – and with this I conclude – a question of method, efficiency, efficiency and, above all, that we do not forget that this is not an additional transfer to enlarging autonomous projects or projects belonging to any administration, but rather, what it is precisely about is to innovate with projects that are able to remove the economy, that are able to carry out a number of issues, especially aimed at recovering employment and improving the economy. I believe that here we certainly move within the framework, although some do not like the word, but it is a liberal economy within the framework of a social economy, a social market economy based on liberal bases. What happens is that there are benches in this Parliament that, whenever the word "liberal" is spoken, they are put on a little bit, but, come on, maybe because they have not read, I don't know, we have different conceptions than what you mean. But, let us know, the European Union defends an economic system based on the social market economy; starting from a freedom of enterprise in the context of some intervention by the public authorities, but precisely aimed at maintaining free competition on the market, which is the essence of the economic system of the European Union. Of this a lot has been written, I too have written something, if you are interested we can comment on it at another location. And just this. Today's debate, I think, has been a debate that has certainly helped us all a little, but it would have been better if we had had this debate before. And in this process of demanding this Parliament also as an organ of, logically, accountability, one of the proposals that we have also pointed out, the eighth in particular, is that this Parliament hold another monographic session when we finally have the projects that are selected by the Basque Government and that will be sent to the central government for possible funding. That, I recall, we are assuming that the projects coming out of the Basque Government and coming out of the national Government will be automatically financed, but knowing the European Commission's working methodology, this must not be taken for granted at all. And that is why, whoever has the responsibility to select them at last, should do so with the criteria of maximum efficiency, maximum efficiency and maximum capacity, in order to truly transform the economy and truly imply sustained long-term growth for our society and that next generation, which is really to which this whole activity is directed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u37	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. I give the floor to the Basque Socialist Group, Mrs Corcuera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u38	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselor, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. The aim of this plenary session was to determine the strategic orientation and priority projects of the Basque Autonomous Community within the framework of the European funds, and therefore the Socialists want to show that the resolutions registered together with the Basque Nationalist group are based on several criteria. First, the alignment of all the motions for resolutions presented with the 2020-2024 Government Programme, with the Berpiztu 2024 Programme, with the emblematic areas of the European Commission, with the four axes and ten transformative levers of the Spanish Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, with the Spanish Government, and with the 2021 annuality of the State General Budgets. Secondly, we intend to align the orientation of multiple projects already structured by the departments of the Basque Government, the outlaws and the municipalities, private companies and socio-economic agents with those criteria already expressed by the Next Generation. We also intend to highlight that the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism is the most important fund and aims to undertake reforms and investments that promote the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the Union, increasing the resilience, potential of growth and adaptability of the Member States, mitigating the social and economic impact of the crisis and supporting the ecological transition to achieve the objective of climate neutrality and also the digital transition, in order to contribute ultimately to economic and social convergence and job creation. It should be borne in mind that the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism will only fund non-recurring expenditures that will entail structural change and have a lasting impact on economic and social resilience, on long-term sustainability and competitiveness and on employment. The fourth criterion is that in the recorded resolutions we show that the Basque Socialists will also support initiatives and projects that fit within the framework of the REACT-EU, bearing in mind that the programme must be implemented on 31 December 2022 and that it operates as the structural funds, but with greater flexibility and agility in implementation, promoting the ecological, digital and resilient recovery of the economy. It is also a programme managed by almost 90% of the autonomous communities. In our resolutions we have also expressed the interest of the Basque Socialists in collecting both the axes and the areas of each axis on which the Euskadi Next plan is based, because this will be the framework for projecting the various initiatives and strategies of the institutions, entities, organisations and companies to be recipients of European funds. We also highlight the need for a recovery and resilience plan of our own, which has been called Euskadi Next, as a contribution to the recovery, transformation and resilience plan of the Government of Spain to be presented to the European Union, and we want the Euskadi Next to face the challenge of absorbing the greatest amount of resources of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism and the REACT-EU in order to promote a Euskadi that progresses in a cohesive way and gives its young people opportunities, gives security in care to the elderly, preserves health and strengthens the quality of employment without leaving anyone behind. For Basque socialists, Euskadi Next should cover the strategic approaches already presented by Basque institutions and agents with their corresponding actions for the period 2021-2026, and should raise the possible legislative and regulatory reforms that will be necessary to meet the requirements of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism and the REACT-EU. We therefore establish that projects or investments included in that own plan must be viable, technically feasible, measurable and must be completed by December 2026. These are the criteria that we have invoked through the resolutions that we have recorded. And by entering into the content of the Next Generation funds, what is interesting is to focus on the productive fabric of the member states, and that is why we propose that this plan, the projects and investments contained in it, specify which components will contribute to the seven emblematic areas of the European Union, which we also recommend to the member states. We want to know which components are aligned with the early launch of clean technologies and the acceleration of the development and use of renewable energy; or with the improvement of energy efficiency in buildings; or which projects are aligned with the promotion of clean technologies to accelerate the use of sustainable, accessible and intelligent transport; or with the rapid deployment of fast broadband services in all regions and households, including fibre and 5G networks; or with the digitization of government and public services; or with the enhancement of industrial capabilities in cloud data and the development of state-of-the-art and sustainable processors; with the adaptation of education systems in support of digital skills and education and vocational training at all ages. We propose that Euskadi Next align itself with the Spanish Government's National Plan for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, which is based on four cross-cutting axes: the ecological transition, digital transformation, territorial and social cohesion and gender equality, and is structured around ten tractor policies that will directly affect those productive sectors with the greatest capacity to transform the economic and social fabric. These ten levers of Spain's Recovery and Resilience Plan are the urban and rural agenda; territorial cohesion; resilient infrastructure and ecosystems; the just and inclusive energy transition; the 21st century public administration; the modernization and digitization of the ecosystem, industry, services and small and medium-sized enterprises; the drive for entrepreneurship; the pact for science and innovation, education and continuing training; capacity-building; the new economy of care and employment policies; the drive for industry, culture and sport; and the modernisation of the tax system. And we want the projects included in the Basque Recovery and Resilience Plan to have a strategic character for the promoter entity or institution and that the various components of the Basque initiatives will add together and be consistent with the Basque strategy for the development and recovery of economic activity and employment. In short, we want multi-sectoral strategies that come from Basque institutions to respond to strategic plans of Basque institutions, organizations and companies. Hence, the initiative of the Basque Government is to integrate into Euskadi Next and to be related to four axes of the government program: the axis of prosperity, the axis of people, the axis of the planet, the axis of self-government. And also the initiatives of the Basque Government that Euskadi Next collects are inspired and respond to the approaches of the Berpiztu program, being this program the Basque institutional response to the economic crisis caused by the health pandemic. Berpiztu is a response of its own which envisages its own budgetary resources as a base of departure, without initially considering possible additional European funds. Berpiztu 2024 also has the added value that it is a programme contrasted with the Social Dialogue Bureau and with the economic and social actors of the Socio-economic Bureau, whose contributions have been incorporated. Berpiztu is our four-year bet to transform Euskadi, to build a greener, more digital and more inclusive Euskadi in line with the European strategy. The government program and the Berpiztu program allow us to have our own strategy for Euskadi. A strategy that, together with institutional programmes and business and socio-economic projects, constitute a road map whose first milestone is the presentation of Euskadi Next on 29 December. Euskadin Next, the Euskadi Recovery and Resilience Program, is based on two axes. First, the axis of the country's transformative bets, in which Basque strategic projects for economic recovery and transformation will be integrated, the so-called PERTE, that allow us to position ourselves and strengthen our potential in sectors of the future, while at the same time praising our economic and social development, allowing, moreover, to improve the potential gross domestic product of Euskadi. Here public investment and strong public-private collaboration are needed, because it is going to invest in the areas of renewable energy generation, sustainable mobility, cybersecurity and health, and people's care. In these areas, multiple projects are aligned. And in Euskadi Next we can also find territorial strategic projects that add to the overall strategy of Euskadi. That is why we will see, for example, issues such as the Naturclima strategy, the climate change strategy, the HUB circular economy projects or the development and implementation of technological systems for intelligent, ecological and integrated mobility. We will certainly see projects to boost culture and its industry, as well as territorial cohesion projects with resilient infrastructures and ecosystems. We will also see projects that welcome safe, sustainable and connected mobility. And the second axis of the Euskadi Next is that of opportunities for acceleration in strategic areas, with four priority areas: urban habitat quality, innovation and digitisation, natural disaster prevention and lifelong learning. The Euskadi Next programme, like the great stake in the future and overcoming the crisis, must be able to find projects already advanced and defined by the Basque Government, such as the creation of a Basque agenda of capacities for a care economy, laying the basis for the professionalization of the care sector. Comprehensive urban regeneration projects must also be incorporated in vulnerable areas of the Basque Autonomous Community, with holistic interventions to reverse the conditions of vulnerability, in perfect partnership with municipalities and private actors. In Euskadi Next we need to find innovative brokering initiatives through the digital transformation of Lanbide and Renove programs for comprehensive rehabilitation as an opportunity also for job creation. In Euskadi Next we must find plans to improve the energy efficiency of the public residential housing park for energy rental, and to achieve almost zero energy consumption in 100% of buildings by 2050. And we can also see renewable electrification plans in the social housing park for rent. And also in Euskadi Next we can see how there are strategic municipal projects for energy efficiency of buildings, in the bet for their fight against climate change, or of attraction of talent to settle R & D+i in our cities. In short, Euskadi Next must be the projection of our ability to overcome and progress in a cohesive, social, economic and territorial way. It has to be a program to give opportunities to youth, and security, as I said, in caring for the elderly. The debate on European funds is not a debate on the past. It is a future debate on the Euskadi in which we want to live and the instruments to make it possible. It is we and ourselves who must define that future Euskadi that needs the alignment of all strategic policies and projects, from the municipalities to the European institutions. One thing the Socialists have raised in the government agreement is the need for co-government, alignment and complementarity of all the policies of all governments in the same direction. On an occasion and in an area as important as European funds, we must act intelligently. The funds are finite and that is why the important thing must be prioritized. We must seek the greatest possible participation, and projects and components that affect as many areas as possible, based on the strategy put forward by Europe and Spain. You can't play pure voluntarism here. All Euskadi Next participants should be aware that the rules of play are not going to be flexible. That we must meet timetables, that we must meet milestones and, therefore, we must face up to our municipal institutional reality, made up of small and medium-sized municipalities. They should also be provided with access to finance. We therefore urge the Basque Government, in line with the work to be carried out within the interdepartmental committee responsible for developing the Euskadi Next programme on European funds, to work in a coordinated way with Eudel to ensure a programme of recovery and resilience of Euskadi that can meet projects and actions at the municipal level, through subsidizable lines that impact on the components of the programme, related to natural and urban habitat, sustainable mobility and energy efficiency. So, with the participation of all, I hope that next 29 December the Governing Council will approve the Euskadi Next, because, as my spokesman, Eneko Andueza, said, it is an opportunity. If we do this right, if we get right with the projects and we don't get involved in minor partisan disputes, we will all win, Euskadi will win, because it will come out economically strengthened, with quality jobs and socially cohesive. And I am glad that we were able to have some reason to propose transactions, because it did seem important to us to be able to incorporate the principles that Euskal Herria Bildu proposed: the entrepreneurial state, the feminist look, not harming the planet, a quality job... We understood that that could bring more, more. Those criteria were already discussed in our resolutions, but, well, it is not wrong to reiterate them. And, it is true, we had not addressed the issue of cross-border projects, the criterion that cross-border issues could be added, or collaboration even with neighbouring autonomous communities, which also have the potential to present projects and which, in addition, would give us more points. It has not been possible, but well, perhaps at another time, at another time, perhaps with other projects these criteria can be carried out. I am also surprised that We can have presented that list of resolutions, because more than just talking about project resolutions in particular, it was a matter of discussing that general framework and those criteria. I didn't give time, as someone said, I don't know who, you've introduced 66. Well, surely we'd all have submitted a list and this is not the framework. It was not the framework for the debate. I understand that you brought him in like this, but, well, that's a strategy for everyone. And I also want to stress that if the transaction between Euskal Herria Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita is one, I understand that it is one that contemplates a certain general framework, there has been no possibility of negotiating any more. Well, on that path, we have unfortunately joined government groups that we have not been able to have sex with you. We had offered a transaction to three, because you were also talking about the collaboration of autonomous communities and the cross-border issue, but as it has not been possible, well, to regret the fact. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. I have the floor for the Basque Nationalist Group, Mrs Berrojalbiz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening to all of you. This afternoon I think it is appropriate, unless I am confused, to present the motions for resolutions. The debate on our ideas was this morning and I believe that all groups have had the opportunity to do so long and extended. I do not think it corresponds to repeating our arguments. Although, as you have repeated so many times, the improvisation of the transfer, Mr Soto, I have just asked the Congress of Deputies and the Senate to send me the sitting papers of the plenary and committees in which the Spanish Government has informed and requested the participation of the parties on the European funds. They tell me there isn't. Can it be possible? I assumed that the request in Euskadi was already being implemented in Madrid and that your request was a mirror of what you were doing as part of the government in Madrid. You'll make it clear to me that we have a replica shift, because they haven't sent me the right sessions, and I'm missing something. Mr. Otero, I asked you to meet with you at Dubai, and I didn't ask you to make wares and resolutions to come to the grand agreement. I love you, and after you, with your approval. But I told you, too, that we wouldn't get there in time and warn the docs that we wouldn't get there in time to send and not send them, so we could have that fair play today. It's funny, because I left the door open for you to talk and make a deal, but I didn't even get a call, as you're the one who proposes. We talked to other teams and we didn't talk to you. I don't know if it's a coincidence, but I'd appreciate it if you asked me to tell you the truth, too. Eta berriz diot, Otero jauna, throw the stone and hide the hand. Goizean esan dizut, we come out here to defend our Government from its unjust and untrue criticisms. Because you can criticize, yes, but without evil, without embarrassment and without wear. Learn to think more about this society, in Euskadi, and not what is right for you as a party. We'd all be better off. Nor do I think it is up to me to clarify the differences between the executive and the legislature. The elaboration and development of this project is the responsibility of the Basque Government as an executive, and not of this Parliament as a legislative power. We must control the Government, but not assume its executive functions. He will integrate the Euskadi the Thu program with the works of Euskadi, in regard to the Susperium and resilence Plan, which are to be introduced in the European Union. And to encourage the economy, and to promote the job, it will be a part of the Renaissance program. The commitment to employment and economic recovery has been reiterated by the lehendakari. Do whatever it takes to keep all possible jobs and get all the lost jobs back. I told you this morning, the strategy is integrated into a comprehensive country project, sustainable human development that contributes to the achievement of the United Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. The strategy is also aligned with the European Next Generation Fund, which provides a comprehensive framework for aligning and guiding public and private resources and efforts towards building an ecological, digital and resilient Europe, through sustainable and inclusive growth, which strengthens social and territorial cohesion. Euskadi shares and assumes these guidelines as a basis for defining its sustainable growth strategy, establishing a link between the axes of its strategy and the European recovery instruments. In this way, the economic recovery axis integrates the philosophy and essence of the RRM, while the employment creation axis includes the broad dimensions of the REACT-EU programme for social and territorial cohesion. To all this we must unite that the Basque Government plans to adopt 16 strategic plans over the next four years. Instruments that will guide public policies in priority areas such as innovation, employment, education or health. The Governing Council yesterday approved strategic planning for the legislature, which is structured around the four axes of the government program: prosperity, people, the planet and self-government. Strategic plans address issues such as science, technology and innovation, public security, employment, public governance and innovation, industrial development and internationalization. Strategic plans for energy transition and climate change, circular economy and bioeconomy, education, housing, urban regeneration, health, social services, equality, justice and politics of euskera and culture, tourism and trade will also be adopted. In addition, the plans forming part of the Berpiztu Framework Programme for Economic Recovery and Employment will be approved. In addition to all these strategic plans, the Basque Government will adopt 78 complementary plans and strategies that develop sector-specific initiatives. Now let them tell us we're playing improv and we're late. And I would like to insist, since we must not forget that the projects included in Euskadi Next must be aligned with our country's strategies, and at the same time they will meet the criteria set by the Commission to benefit from the extraordinary funds for the 2026 financial year. And they must respond to our present and future needs; Mrs Corcuera said so. They must also be viable, aligned with the areas marked by the European Union, and with sufficient resources for their future sustainability. Technically feasible; that its implementation be completed by December 2026, as required by the Commission. And be measurable, with clear indicators of outcome and impact. Therefore, once the strategic approach and conceptual framework have been defined, projects should be aligned with the criteria established by the European Union in terms of time frames, milestones, monitoring indicators, etc. Euskadi Next must be very realistic in terms of milestone fulfillments, as the funds are conditional on their annual execution. Projects should also assess the competitive factor of the Basque R & D bet. Sustained investment in R & D puts us in a better exit position than the rest of the world; a better starting point for reactivation. And it is not that we like to compare ourselves with the state, because we prefer to look at other more innovative regions of Europe. But, at this time when Euskadi is going to be an autonomous community interested in attracting resources, and more now that Europe is talking about prioritising competitive investments, it is necessary to remember this data. Industrial innovation, with construction innovation, will enable a sustainable and fair economic recovery. Eta aurrekoa isanda, and considering this strategy and the European regulatory framework, we have put forward our motions for resolutions. I will not detail them, since Mrs. Corcuera has already done so. But what I do want to do is to make clear the message that our proposals contain and that, hopefully, by seeing the objective of them, we can reach a broad consensus. Lehenengoa, it is important to define realistic and viable projects – as I have said – in time and form, which fit with Europe, which can be implemented in time, which have the capacity to absorb. If you don't, the funds will be lost. Public investment must boost or accelerate private investment, and always welcoming the milestones, the different reference frameworks. Europe has set two: the seven flagship areas and the recommendations of the European Semester. Bigarrenik, with respect to self-government in the governance of the funds; ori ere esan dugu gure ebazpenetan. Guk egiten dugu Euskadiren self-governing aldeko eskakizuna; begiratu ezazu Euskadi Next program edo aurkeztu ditugun proposamenak governentzaren inguruan. What the Feder and the MRR are for is very similar, and it would clearly improve our position: advances, deadlines..., everything fits, because we are observing all the actions that invade our competences: judgments, bills... Therefore, we will have to fight to at least respect our competitive framework, and that must be our usual relationship of collaboration and governance. Eta honen ildora, begira itzazue gure 20 eta 21. ebazpenak. Hirugarrenik, gure ebazpenen hirugarren ildoa. Doing a coordinated work with Eudel for the benefit of all the municipalities, so that they can benefit from the funds, capillaryizing them, and achieve the transformation that we want through the municipalities. Honen ildora, gure 22. ebazpena. Laugarren ildoa, to achieve all of this, doing coordinated work with the economic and social sectors, as we have been doing for months now. Eta azkenik, yes, without the administrative burden being a ballast. Therefore, proposing to speed up this management. Eta hor ikusi dezakezue gure 19. ebazpena. And in this line, our proposals. As you can see, we are neither orthodox nor inflexible. We adapt to the reality and needs of our citizens. We know that there is a change of perception in priorities. Three areas have gained enormous weight: one is sustainability and what we do with the planet, and that includes energy efficiency, respect for nature, green energies and the modernization of our structures. There are two other very important areas: the guarantee in public services and the nation as a nation of people. And we have to improve them, we are aware. We have a challenge in renewable energy and improving R & D+i. And we are concerned and busy with the competitiveness of our companies; I assume you too. But in the Basque Nationalist Party we adapt and will always adapt, and we go in the direction and direction in which society guides us. We lead the country when the situation requires it. I remind you of milestones such as the creation of Emakunde, the RGI, LGTBIren inguruko mugimenduak, serious politics. We go ahead, yes, always accompanying needs and listening to our society: working and working. It is a country bet, because we are clear which country we want. Tomorrow you can see it in the budgets of 2021, but we already know, for example, in line with our defense of the necessary commitment for energy efficiency, the launch in 2021 of the Gauzatu Energia programme, aimed at local entities, endowed with 100 million euros for financing in municipal actions. Wind energy is the most efficient, so Euskadi is expected to have new wind farms generating energy; beast adibide bat gehiago. I did not want to end without thanking, from my position as a citizen, not only as a parliamentarian, the efforts and work of the Basque Government and all the institutions involved in this project. To thank them for their effort and work, always to achieve a better Euskadi, transform Euskadi and rebuild Euskadi. We know that these are difficult times, but with rigour, effort, collaboration and teamwork we will succeed. Being a reference in R & D & i, having an advanced and competitive industry, being a reference in Europe, having the social policies we have, the bets for employment and the quality of employment among many other bets... All this makes us today where we are, and in a better exit position for recovery. And that is thanks to the work of the Basque Government for many and many years. It's time to join forces. Without collaboration, we won't make any progress. We want to be the Basque Country looking at Europe and the world: Basque Country. Eskerrak eman, big age, gizrateari, egiten ari den esfortzuagatik. Badakigu nekatuta gaudela, baisa nekeari aurre egin indarrarekin etorkizunari begiratu behar diogu, osasun-gaitzak gainditzeko eta ekonomia bereskuratzeko, ongizasida their disappointed. I hope that this Parliament will take the example, and that from the confrontations we will move to collaboration and consensus, because Euskadi is built on these foundations, and society deserves it. We will – even if it is late – welcome those groups that come to join these forces. Although, if we really wanted to rebuild Euskadi, it should have been demonstrated in this debate with an issue as relevant as the funds that will accelerate the reconstruction of Euskadi. Be an example and show that you are the height. We will always be willing to collaborate for the benefit of Euskadi. Auzolanerako and Lankidetzarako. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbiz. After this broad turn of words, there is the possibility of a replica. Mrs Martínez says she is not going to intervene, by the Joint Group. Mr. Soto? He's gonna step in. You have the floor for the Elkarrekin Podemos group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u42	Good again. Let's see, in part. First of all, Mrs Corcuera, tell him that, with many of the projects that you have put on the table, surely we would have no inconvenience in agreeing; I guarantee him. You have spoken about the digitisation of Lanbide, in one of our resolutions we talk about the commitment to digitisation of the administration and the use of European funds in this regard. He talks about residential parks, and to approach him he talks about different typologies. We too, in one of the resolutions, do so. It also talks about the recovery of degraded areas, also in one of our resolutions we make this stated with certain specifications, indeed it is true. Also with regard to care policy and this axis which should necessarily and to a high percentage of the final document to be sent to the Government of Spain, we also believe that there could be agreement, but there has been no room for agreement. This is the only space there has been to this day, the only one. And we have had no record of the resolutions of the groups supporting the Basque Government until today. We thought that we were going to receive those resolutions on the weekend, and that we were going to do the same. And as has been said before, we have not received the resolutions until today. We were told that until today we were not going to receive them. You will already tell me how we would be able to align, as you have said, in as little time as we and we have tabled resolutions, and we would certainly agree with many of them. What we are doing is precisely touching the door, as you have mentioned, and waiting for us, in this very short space of time, that we do not know whether it will be possible to achieve it and materialize it, to reach certain agreements that are reflected in that document, which is finally sent on the 29th. But what we do not know is that it is not even virtually possible to reach agreements today that are reflected in that document. Because, honestly, we think that today that document is closed, it is closed. And that today we have come here, well, to verbalize what we would have wanted to introduce in that document, but that, of course, we have not been given the opportunity to do so. That is basically the conclusion that we draw and that we derive from all the debate that has been given. Because the motion adopted in this Parliament spoke of a model of collaborative participation. I insist, that we do not know what this model of collaborative participation is. A commission last week, that's the collaborative participation model. And they were talking about the Government of Spain in relation to the fact that what we have proposed here seems not to be something that the Government of Spain is doing. It is that the Government of Spain has an advisory council, and has a window to propose projects. In fact, today they are encrypted, the number of projects that have been presented in different ministries in relation to the windows I was talking about. And on the advisory council, there has never been a question of existence here, here it is only an interdepartmental commission, that is, the spaces cobbled by the parties that support the government. And that's the point. This is the area of definition of the projects that will go to the Spanish Government on 29 December. That is, it resembles that program, and make sure that this is a very serious element what we are talking about today, but this resembles that of Next in which, well, people happened – a rather, by the way, detestable program – in which people happened and so far as you didn't like it, you said "next". For here with the resolutions it is exactly the same, but one after another. Here we are going to vote no to all the proposals of the opposition parties. In bulk, too. It will be a next step, that is the Euskadi Next proposed by the Basque Government, or at least the parties that support the Basque Government in relation to the participation of opposition groups. A next one. So, to us, honestly, and it sounds very hard to say it in these conditions, but it seems to us seriously a pantomime. A pantomime of the motion that was adopted in this Parliament regarding the development of a model of collaborative participation between civil society, business and the political groups present here. Firstly, because we do not know what the model of participation of business civil society has been. And, of course, what has to do with the political groups present we do know: none. None. All that has been, at the request of the opposition. And I apologize for addressing you, but in reality it is basically the groups that support the Basque Government and also the Basque Government itself. And, in this regard, to tell you, or to tell you, as I have concluded in my initial speech, we hope that, in the little margin that exists until 29 December, we will be able to meet at some point, and we will be able to reach agreements on issues which, for what has been worded here, in some of them we will certainly have options of agreement. But there have to be those spaces, and also that methodology that was discussed earlier. Of course, here, to present resolutions and to pretend that in this space of time we can agree on an infinite number of projects, as we would certainly present all the parties or all the parliamentary groups represented here, is complicated. It is true that a methodology is needed for this. All right, set it up. That was the commitment that was made here in the Basque Parliament: that a participatory methodology would be established; and it does not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u43	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr Otero has the floor for the Euskal group Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u44	Well, the day is running out. I didn't want to miss the opportunity to thank the PNV for bringing Euskadi ecology, feminism, rights... I understand everything. Thank you. Eternal love. I think the best summary of today is in the English class we've been trying to give us this morning, I think it's there. We've been given a class and we've been told that we don't understand English, because Europe said, "a shad-policy dialogue," and we call it "un amplio diálo diítico." Y-dodes lo there tradudo como "sobre pollíticas." It is true that the term "policy" in English is an ambivalent term and can give rise to interpretations, but it is curious that those who are trying to teach us English do not exercise to finish the sentence they are reading, because that same phrase was "including all relevant stakeholders", including all important stakeholders. What I say to you, I say to you, throughout the process, is that this Parliament is an important interested party, Euskal Herria Bildu is an important interested party, with its representation of 250,000 people. That's what we're telling you. That is the broad political, or political, dialogue that should have opened and not opened. What we have offered is to unite and defend, but it is true, we have also asked for a procedure, public, rated, light, and partaker of. You didn't offer. The majority of you, one of you would say the rhodile, have applied the majority, and may be allowed to do so. We're all used to the fact that our positions sometimes win or lose, this is an majority issue. But I think you can't do one thing, and it's about getting your hair, that's what we're asking you to do. Don't tell me this is a neighborhood business. Don't tell me this is a popular business. Don't tell us that after you haven't called us around in half a year. Please don't say that. Do what you have to do with most of you. The majority seem to us to have, but not so much right. And I will explain: We have already said more than once, this is more than a decision of the chimunctal government, it is more plump than the temporal frame, but because of the size of the decisions and the challenge we stand before us. That's why we say there's a lack of legitimacy here, not a lack of majority, but that's not what we're saying. Here, we said from the beginning, there was a problem. Use this every place like a caramel bag. Madrid did it or is doing it a bit, but you guys did two twists, you know, this is no longer the story of the caramel bag. I mean, I don't know how to say the gospel policy of "en El señor de los anillos, o sera, es mío... el listado es mío, los proyectos son míos." Neither see nor dispute, not a call, in order to contribute. We say there's a lot to play here. And we also say that something deep is moving, something is changing. And we believe that this is how we interpret it, that Europe has asked for this exercise. We wanted to make that a popular business, but you want us out of this trial. You'll know why. You want to continue with what you've done, but Europe demands disruption. And the dispersion does not follow what has been done so far, so there is no ecological transition that is the number of your paranoia, there is no digital distraction, no social distraction. As English has been talking about "The times are changing," as Bob Dylan said, and it seems to us that you are not feeling pulse in these times of change. And that, at any rate, the pulse would be easier for us all. You don't want to. We think, as we said, of the strategic error. And since you're so good with the Englishman, I'll leave you an English proverb that you don't want to move: "you snooze, you lose." Or, as my grandfather in Algeria would say, "Too much sleep, and you'll eat thin."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u45	Thank you, Mr. Otero. For the Basque People-Citizens group, they will not intervene. For the Basque Socialist Group, Mrs Corcuera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u46	Yes, thank you, President. The Basque Socialists did not intend today to make this debate a contest of ideas or a contest of projects, Mr Soto, which could look very good in a photo, but which did not have any rigorous studies to make them viable. Because they would have stayed, moreover, in the tinter. Please review the amendment we adopted in this plenary because point 3 does not say what you have commented on in this rostrum. It does not speak of political groups, nor of parliamentary groups. Revise point 3 of the amendment which was adopted. Look, our motions for resolutions set out the criteria and guidelines that Euskadi Next must take in order for these European funds to allow us to take steps on the Euskadi in which we want to live. As a responsible Basque left, the Basque socialists want this full project to the citizenry that there is a definite course to take advantage of the great window of opportunity that opens up to us, with the great transitions that are already underway: digital, ecological and demographic. The Socialists presented themselves to the elections with a double programme. On the one hand, our road map, which was aligned with the objectives of the 2030 Agenda. And, on the other hand, the one that the pandemic forced us to prepare, that of the bases for the social and economic reconstruction of Euskadi, based on three principles: ensuring the health of citizens, economic recovery and employment, and leaving no one behind. And, in its literality, these bases have been assumed as a government program, to attend to the urgent and, practically in its entirety, the rest of the program has been collected as a guide for the future. Hence the importance, for the Basque socialists, of basing Euskadi Next on the government program and the Berpiztu program. We have put forward in this debate the most appropriate guidelines and strategies for incardinating in the Euskadi Next the first commitment of the government programme among the 150 commitments it contains, when initiative 1 proposes to develop, coordinate and promote a framework programme for economic recovery and employment of an interdepartmental and inter-institutional nature, oriented towards the social and economic reconstruction of Euskadi and which will boost sustainable growth and be aligned with the 2030 Agenda and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, as well as with the priorities of the European programmes SURE and Next Generation. Therefore, what matters to us after this debate is that the Basque Government has drawn up the strategy of resilience and the transformations necessary in the Basque Country for economic and employment recovery. The strategies of the various institutional levels for the development of recovery policies are also being worked on and structured so as not to lose a single economic opportunity from European funds. We have a road map to move forward by changing Euskadi for the better, making our Autonomous Community an advanced territory, an innovative territory and also emerging from the crisis in a good position. There is institutional stability and readiness also for broad consensus beyond party strategies; therefore, we have before us a great opportunity to transform Euskadi. There may be strategies. Today the debate, Mr Soto, the plenary debate has not been brought by the Socialists, Euskal Herria Bildu has brought to them the fact that no proposals have come out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. I have the floor for the Basque Nationalist Group, Mrs Berrojalbiz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. I've told you before, this is going to take a long time, we have a first milestone on the 29th of this month, but then there are many months ahead, a time to continue working and it would be better to do so since collaboration, because we will win all and all, this is a matter of country, we play a lot in it. But you must know that all the projects, all the programmes that are subject to evaluation do not meet the criteria that this Government decides, they meet the criteria that Europe has set for us, and that, as the Sailburu said, they are very scrupulous and very demanding criteria. The selection, therefore, will not be subject to the wishes of the Government, but to what Europe has guided us. We have a great opportunity, we talk about a lot of money and we talk about taking good advantage of it to continue transforming our structures, our productive models and our economy; our society, in short. We know that their management will be complicated and we need to fine-tune, we know that many answers are still missing, and that the Spanish Government will have to detail and clarify many issues. And in that work we hope that they will have all the autonomous communities. Ours is making every effort to get the more help, the better. I hope there is no doubt in this matter, because it would be terribly unfair. We do not know how much money we will receive, nor when, nor how it will be distributed, but we do know that we are working hard to make the most of it and so that Euskadi can support the changes and transformations, already begun, towards a more modern, more competitive, more digital and green Euskadi, a solidarity society and think about who is going through the worst. That's what this group wants and that's why we work. We have done so without these additional resources which will reach us and which, when they arrive, will contribute, and much, to speed up all these transformations. We'll keep reaching out to everyone. I hope we understand that union will always be better than disunity, and we will, we have seen it in the EU, with the veto of Poland and Hungary. These vetoes have been overcome with the word and debate. I'd like us to come up here, too, and don't move away. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbiz. The speaking time has ended and we now have to organise the votes. We had made a framework to try to simplify, because there are 118 resolutions and we wanted to simplify, as far as possible. It seems that that picture has to be touched a little bit, you have to make some correction, and as we have to wait for that correction to be made, about 5 or 10 minutes, what we are going to do is suspend now and when we go to resume I will ring the bell. It was ten o'clock in the afternoon. At five-thirty-two o'clock the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u50	Take a seat. Let's resume the session. A document has been distributed with the organization of the voting. I suppose at least the spokesmen of each group have it, and in that document, in the proposals of the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups, there is no resolution number 2, which will be the first one that we will vote on. Therefore, include proposal No. 2 in the list. In the section of the proposals of the Basque and Socialist Nationalist groups it starts with 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, it is one of the votes. Well, before that, we'll vote the 2 that was missing, had jumped off the list. Well, if you all agree, we will proceed to vote, as set out in the document we have distributed to you. The first vote is Bildu's proposed sex 3 and 4 with the 1 of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. You can vote with the clock. They'll start it now. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary is 48; the abstentions are 0; white, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u51	It is therefore rejected. Let us proceed to the vote on the proposals of the Joint Group, 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8 and 9. They may proceed to the vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 42; votes given, 75; in favour 1, 68; instigations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u52	The above-mentioned proposals are therefore rejected. Next vote: resolutions 3 and 6 of the Joint Group. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the parties are 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters 7; the opponents 68; the abstentions, 0; white, 0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u53	They're rejected. Next vote: proposal number 2 by Elkarrekin Podemos. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 47; the oppositions are 47; 1stations; white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u54	It's rejected. Next vote: proposals 6 and 7 by Elkarrekin Podemos. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u55	Next vote, proposals 6 and 7 by Elkarrekin Podemos. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 42; the contrary is the abscessions, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u56	They're rejected. Next vote, resolutions 4 and 9 of Elkarrekin Podemos. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 48; the abstainations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u57	It is therefore rejected. Next vote, resolutions 3 and 8 of Elkarrekin Podemos. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 48; the abstainations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u58	It's rejected. Next vote, Elkarrekin's resolutions Podemos 12, 16, 25, 26, 30, 31, 32, 35, 36, 39, 58 and 64. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 6; the contrary, 48; the abstainations 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u59	It's rejected. Next vote, Elkarrekin resolution We can number 17. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; the votes 75; the supporters six; the contrary, 42; the abscesssions, 27; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u60	They are therefore rejected. Next vote, Elkarrekin resolutions We can 10, 13, 19, 20, 27, 28, 34, 41, 45, 46, 48, 49, 51, 52, 53 and 61. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 6; the contrary, 48; the abstainations 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u61	It's rejected. We proceed to the following Elkarrekin resolutions: 5, 11, 14, 15, 33, 37, 44, 50, 55, 56, 60, 62 and 63. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 6; the contrary, 48; the abstainations 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u62	They're rejected. Next vote, by Elkarrekin We can, resolutions 18, 21, 22, 23, 24, 29, 38, 40, 42, 43, 47, 54, 57, 59, 65 and 66. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; the votes 75; the supporters six; the contrary, 42; the abscesssions, 27; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u63	They're rejected. Next vote, motions for resolutions by EH Bildu 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 12. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 48; the abstainations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u64	They're rejected. Next vote, by Euskal Herria Bildu, resolution number 5. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters 21; the contrary, 48; the Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u65	It's rejected. Next vote, by Euskal Herria Bildu, 9 and 13. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 42; the oppositions are 42; the abscesssions are 6; white ones; 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u66	They're rejected. Proposals of the Basque-Citizens People's Group. Vote on resolutions 1, 3, 5 and 7. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the parties are 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters 7; the opponents 68; the abstentions, 0; white, 0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u67	They're rejected. We voted in favour of resolution No. 2 of the People's Party-Citizens. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters of the league are 48; the contrary is 27; the abstations are 0; white ones; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u68	Resolution No. 2 was adopted. Let us proceed to the vote on resolution No. 4, also of the People-Citizens Group. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 6; the contrary, 62; the abscesssions, 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u69	It's rejected. Let us proceed to the vote on the resolutions of the People's Party-Citizens Nos. 6 and 8. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 7; the contrary is 62; the abscesssions, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u70	They're rejected. We proceeded to vote on the resolutions of the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups. We voted for resolution number two. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the assembly, 42; 75; 41; the contrary, the contrary 27; the Absence, 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u71	It's approved. Let us proceed to the vote on resolutions 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist Group. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters of the league, 48; the contrary is 21. Abscessions, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u72	They're approved. Next vote by the same group, the same groups, 1, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 21; the oppositions are 7; white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u73	They're approved. Vote on Resolution No. 13, Basque Nationalist and Socialist Group. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the assembly, 42; 75; 41; the contrary, the contrary 27; the Absence, 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u74	It's approved. Next vote, Resolution No. 14 of Basque Nationalists and Socialists. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 21; the oppositions are 7; white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u75	It's approved. Next resolution by Basque Nationalists and Socialists, number 15. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters of the league are 48; the contrary is 27; the abstations are 0; white ones; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u76	It's approved. Next resolution by Basque Socialists and Nationalists, number 16. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters of the league, 48; the contrary, 27; the abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u77	It's approved. Next resolution of the same groups, Basque Nationalists and Socialists, number 17. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 21. The Abstations, 13; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u78	It's approved. Next vote, resolution 18, Basque Nationalist and Socialist groups. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 33; the abscesssions, 1, white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u79	It's approved. Next vote, resolutions 19, 20 and 21 of the Basque Nationalist and Socialist groups. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 28; the abscesssions, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u80	They're approved. And, except for error or omission, last vote, Resolution No. 22 of the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 28; the abscesssions, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-16.u81	It's approved. Having concluded the voting, the meeting rose. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and forty-three.
