ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. So sit each one of you in your seats. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, we shall call our colleague Ana Ruiz de Alegria Maestius. Good morning. I remind you that the next lords and ladies have adopted the vote: Leire Pindo, Zarinurate, Ichaso Houseer, Lore Martin, River Iriart, Jule's Arzuaga, Myria Cortha, Josu Estarrona, Unai Fernandez, and Lovene Ipiñazar. First point in theme list: "Phum up the propose of the parliamentary teams to prepare for old men in front of the second wave of COVID-19. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Rodriguez, representing the EH team, is yours to introduce and defend the commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, congressmen, guests, good days. In the first wave of COVID-19, Euskal Autonomy had been placed at least 703 residents in Erlaboria. In the second wave, at least 112. In the name of the Basque People gathered together, I'd like to give my condolences to their relatives. The suffering brought by COVID-19 does not begin and does not end in the residents who have lost their lives, and the ratings that have been taken to prevent the disease are a destructive result in the members of the dorm centers. As I was told by a relative of an Egolian, "suman daías a su vida, pero noqueque vida a sus días." Gaurko hitzartzea you have dezaket gogoratuz no help of the train station of honor. Gogora ekar dizzaket aurreko urteko udazkenean Legebiltzar honetan egotza-zentroe buruzko baldintzei buruz izan genituen eztabaidak. Orduan, a genuine exaten: "It is not realizing the magnitude of what is being regulated. They're regulating whether we're going to have dignity in our lives when they have to take care of us. And they're not thinking about doing it better; in fact, they're doing it worse. They're regulating worse lives. They are approving worsening the living conditions of the 18,000 people who are in residences of public responsibility." I must remind him that this is not the first time we plan these measures; for on the 16th of March, on April 17th, and on the 13th of May, the Basque People proposed similar measures. Then we only received silence or the opposite attitudes. And I'm afraid we've lost six months on the way. In the same way, I can bring them to the discussion of the day, the sad halls that have been the leading ones, like this one. But no, I won't look back today. The Basque Country collect no sube hoy a tributa a buscar cults de lo ocurrido, pero tampoco vamos a permitir que sega mirndo seeda otro lado. I'll begin with the first public conference of the measures we bring here today. The lady of apples directed her attention to the people, and said as follows: "We must continue to control the connections in order to prevent the virus, for we must not forget that the virus is still here." As dry as the truth: reducing contacts to prevent virus extension. Same thing in our social areas or our headquarters, don't you think? We can find two types of contacts in the Residence Center. On the one hand, the relations which the workingmen daily pay attention to the residents, and the association of the emotions which the residents require from their relatives. They may be vectors to infect both of them, but we can cause both of them to limit the danger to the residents. How can we influence the workers in order to reduce their contacts? It is true that at the present day we have more information and knowledge than we had at the beginning of the pandemae. Now, as regards this side, from the first moment, the road to be discussed was clear. On the order of the 19th Minister of March, the following was received: "E la medica de sleeping, se debe reducir al mínimo el número de labororos en contacto switcho con un resiste afectado por imposo o posivo." To reduce the contacts which the workers have to be, it is therefore indispensable to increase the number of workers. That's what I've never made up your mind to, and, apparently, she's not ready to pick it up. His red line. I've raised the number of personnel from a health point of view, but it's just as important or even more important to include the attention of the residents in the dimensions. In the autumn of the year past, I had just brought the words of a guard into this tribe, and he said: "We cannot treat residents as they deserve. We always say: We don't work with screws, we work with people. We must run; We only have 15 minutes to wake up, get up, put on our clothes and wear them for breakfast. It's a constant physical defense, and working with the timewatch, it's even harder." At this point, I am addressing you to all the members of the legislatures who will be opposed to the increase of the number of workers today. Have you read what needs to be done by protocols against COVID19? Have you read them? Have you asked yourselves how you can insert these jobs into that routine I've drawn before? There are only two possibilities, only two: to increase the number of workers, to diminish the quality of the guards and residents of life. You'll see what you're making up your mind today. It's paradoxical, very paradoxical. We all agree, even if we disagree with the numbers, that we must increase the templates in the education system or in the health system. We all agree. What about the housing centers? Why not in the Residence Center? I have just mentioned two vectors of infection. In the second place, the association by the affections which the residents require from their relatives, was cut off from the root by the organizations from the root. And, in this regard, I want to share a concern with you about what we can consider a dignified life, a dignified life that is worth living. It is a concern that gives me some images of what has been called "the new normality". I am referring to the images of the new normality in residential centers: images of almost absolute isolation, and contacts that have been reduced to their slightest expression. It's true: we have to protect them, and we have to protect them as we didn't protect them before. But at what price? At the price of denying them the possibility of continuing their life plan? At the cost of losing full control over their lives? I have the impression that many of the measures of this new normality have more to do with the safety of the rulers than with the safety of those who reside in a centre. More than seven months after the plague, the institutions have taken the same measures as we have hitherto known; that is to say, a tacit confination. And this, though the observations made on the most serious consequences of isolation are known. Mugarik Gabeko Medikuen Little, late and bad "We started by isolating everyone in their rooms, as recommended, to avoid contagion. We didn't know what this was going to last, and we immediately saw that there were residents who weren't going to be able to handle it. Eugenia, for example, stopped eating and moving. He spent hours looking out the window. There were other residents who complained and tried to leave the rooms. And the truth is, it's been very painful to have to keep them locked up. In Eugenia's case, I was afraid she'd let herself die and I started to take her out for a while every day, to see if she'd regain her appetite. And he started eating, he started to get better, until one day the primary care came, just when we had her out, and they told me he was an unconscious and he was putting everyone in danger. I had no choice but to return her to the room. They made me feel really bad. She stopped eating again, and a few days later she died. I'm not saying he wasn't going to die anyway, but I'm sure he didn't want to go through that. When the primary team came back, and I told them that he had died by locking her up again, they told me, 'Don't tell us that.' They got pretty touched. We've all been through the same thing. We were so afraid of the virus that we didn't think of anything other than isolating to the maximum, without thinking what that meant to them." One thing must be confessed: Medical departments introduced to the protocol on the 22nd of September, para vigilania y el Control de COVID-19 centers sociosanitariums. The health chief, in artistic gymnastics, scores two components: difficulty and execution. This protocol, if it were a routine, would score a high scores in difficulty and 0 at running point. And all that just happened because it was her decision. The law of social service proclaims this right to you: "The regulation of conditions between functions and workers on the side of the means." The problem is, since pandemia began, he'd decided to refuse. She hung him up. Basque system of social services with vacant headquarters. An abdication that has caused a sort of succession order. The Basque Government abdicates in favour of outlaws, and these abdicates, in turn, in favour of the centres. And here is the problem, because the problem is that at the head of these centers we rarely find an employee or a public employee, and yes, on many occasions, managers who have to be accountable to an investment fund. And now, speaking of the measures taken but not fulfilled, we cannot mention the Order of August 19 of the Chief of Health. In that case, it was determined that PCR tests should be made to the workers. A few weeks later, that size wasn't working. And he didn't intervene. Can you imagine if anything like that happen in any sector? The medical department's orders are not met? The principal feature of the management of crisis in our community is, alas, that we did not participate in the ages of life. Unlike in other autonomys, in the Esquimia Estalka, it hasn't been taken into one of the centres of the dorm. And some serious things have happened. I'll give you an example. A number of autonomy members have been entrusted to the centers of a multinational corporation. We've reached our own country. In the first wave, in a few weeks, I repeat again the quarter-quarters of the residents, the quarter-quarters of which had lost the life of the fourteenth. In the other communities, as has been done, he was entrusted with the conduct of that centre of residence in ours? No, he didn't. I have more examples, and questions accumulate, but I will not prolong them any longer. Well, there's one thing I want to say: To learn from experience, to make the right decisions, we need a full photograph, and we need to know what happened in the housing centers. The information had been established from the first moment, but, unlike the person who had affected them, this informal confinement has not yet been raised. The serious problems and deficiencies that I have enumerated in my language will solve it. Here and now, there's a solution. In the proposal we've brought here today, we've taken measures to face these problems. Anyway, we have to admit we're late. The illness gave us a few months' truce, but we lost that opportunity. We were able to avoid a lot of suffering, and we did not avoid it. It is true that there are still many questions to answer, but there are already the answers we know: to increase the number of workmen, to change this material reality of the tabernacles, to reach the prices in a ethical manner, to look at them more closely... Let's get this way. Let's start now and here with the sizes. The fact that the number of people killed in our residential centers has been reduced in the second wave does not mean that we have not failed. His tragic role in the pandemic continues. It made the editorial of some of the main media in our country a reflection that, adapted, I make entirely mine. This is not a reproach; it is a community self-criticism. We have led to foolish debates, rather than focusing on important issues such as this. For various reasons, we have failed to put residences on the political agenda of this country. Those who have acted well, in some cases with great sacrifices, the same between family members as between workers or managers, should be congratulated for this. That pride so present among the essential professionals has allowed us to get here. Even those who have not been right should be just and not blame themselves more than humanly assumed, because it was very difficult, it was very difficult. In the future, without the pressure the pandemic is putting on us, we will address a more serious and calm debate, a debate that did not take place a year ago in this House, but here and now it is necessary; it is a moral duty that we act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u2	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together represent the Podemos-IU team. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u3	Good morning, tables, guests, congressmen, guests. We are cared for when we are born, in our childhood; we are cared for throughout life; we are cared for when we need it, but especially at the end of life. It's simple to explain, simple to understand, and I think we're all aware of it here. Today we begin the plenary with one of the themes with capitals that the pandemic is leaving us, one of the most painful and bloody. What has been lived and is being lived in the residences has no name, but it does qualify: painful and bleeding. We had the first wave, and we suffered with everything that happened at that moment. We all know a person who has a relation or friend who has suffered this state, or we ourselves directly. We had plenty of time to prepare and organize, but the second wave caught us again, suffering to the tales of what is happening in the retreats. I want to dedicate a few seconds to the hundreds of people who are in the residences of our community, living, resisting, sick or losing their lives, locked between the walls of buildings that must provide them with dignity and care in their last years. I would also like to dedicate a moment to their families, who in many cases have been deprived of being able to accompany them in the disease and, in many painful cases, also in death. Linked to them, the associations and citizen platforms that are denouncing and promoting initiatives for a change in residential models are the new protagonists due to the obligation of our equation, to which we have to listen. Pero hoy quiero menciore specicialmente en el incio de intervención, a las labororos de las residecias. They have also suffered these processes from the persons they look after, and from those who work with them. They have suffered and suffered the effects of privatized services, which for the past three years hardly anything has evolved. Their demands have always been of overwhelming logic and unquestionable social justice; or, which is the same, they demand only decent working conditions in the sector and quality care for thousands and thousands of users of their homes. Throughout this time, their deputies have only been betting to push a business environment with our elders. Instead of being the institution that monitors, promotes and guarantees the rights of women workers and their caregivers, we see the precariousness, inequality and wage gap in women workers in the sector installed, with absolutely poor ratios that bring with them a totally inadequate quality of care. Yesterday we accompanied them and supported them on their strike day; well, only a few, because we were amazed at the Basque Government's decree that required 100% of the minimum nursing, auxiliary and cleaning services to be maintained, as well as 90% of laundry and 50% of cooking. It is incomprehensible that a service which is declared essential to the point of establishing minimum services of 100 % is so undervalued in the field of the protection of its workers. One more incongruity of this Government. And in this situation, when COVID-19 and more than six months of applause from the balconies, old men's dwellings have become the most critical point for these three sectors: residents, families and workers. But what has been done from the institutions? Zer egin due instituzioek, Gobernuak? The second wave has only made the terrible situation of contagion and death that was experienced exponentially worse. If after the first wave of the virus the caregivers were already physically, psychologically and emotionally – and there we were all aware that they were essential – the wave we are experiencing must add contempt and the harmful management of the companies and outlaws, which, even, remain unresponsive to the request for negotiation. It is an indefinable and unpresidental attitude; for the conditions of the workers, besides the preparation, increase the uneasiness of the relatives, and are a serious and real danger to the life of the residents. Since the association Helduak Adi!, committed to the elderly, they brought to us a few days ago their concern about the situation of the people in the residences and their care in general. They said that if something has changed this time it is the social consciousness in the order of priorities, which has moved to focus on the people who need it most, many of them people over 65 years old, often invisible in residences or living in solitude. COVID has demonstrated the vulnerability of this important segment of the population. This association urges us to take steps on privatization and home-related profit, to improve ratios, to touch infrastructure, not to have residents as mere passive recipients and to take them more into account than ever when designing policies that fall within their competence. And we subscribe to these demands. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we have been denouncing the inexplicable lack of leadership and transparency that the Basque Government and other Basque institutions have had in a sphere of their competence. Euskadiko adinekoentzako egoitzen kudeaketa oso eskasa da. Ez de stratégariarik, éz de ebiltzaileen zaintza eta osasuna bermatzen. It is a fact that since the institutions we have been taking care of the elderly for years and that the serious situation of residences is not a consequence of the crisis of the coronavirus. No, no, This crisis, like the tip of the iceberg, has highlighted and aggravated the pre-existing structural crisis against which we have clashed and rattled. The crisis that is suffering labor and sector is the result of the small importance which institutions have given. And here I stress again the need to rethink and create the public care system. Yes, the one I told you about last week and the government doesn't see any need. A system that is strong, public, community, integral, integrated, that ensures the quality of care and, above all, that is people-centred. It is necessary, and it is necessary to make a profound discussion of the place in society, and especially of the system in which old men are guarded, paying particular attention to egotists and domestic aids; very privatized, feminised, and premeditated services. Si no, nos ivydirmos. And, today, our proposals in this matter, those of Elakrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, have been added and added to those of Euskal Herria Bildu. I want to highlight as my own five. The first is to provide homes with gerontological health personnel, from the public system, that guarantee personalized care to residents, not only to alleviate the crisis experienced, but also to prevent the deterioration of the health of our elderly, reduce dependence and promote their autonomy. Debemos huir del asceticialism del resincial y brindar una asceticia de calida. In order to achieve all this, it is necessary to adapt the ratios, and to defend a different product of life, and to leave behind the macronistic model, which had cost the prices, and the middle watch of old men. The second is to urgently strengthen the social services portfolio of the home care service with special employment grants. The third is to strengthen labour inspection, ensuring that all workers in residences have adequate protective equipment and that care ratios are not affected by health emergencies. Now, more than ever, you have to keep open communication with sectors employees and socialists to see what conditions you need to reinforce. The fourth is to intervene in the infrastructures, in the spaces, in the rooms. Physical isolation must be avoided as social isolation and emotional isolation. And finally, to extend these actions to the network of private residences, whose situation is not known for certain. Private companies that do not have an employment agreement should not be subcontracted. "El cuidado de los mayores y la salud de la la las chasandoras debes, and the public intervention if necessary; for it is a responsibility to all who are under the care of our age." They care for us, we care for us, we are cared for, and so, in this circle, every one of our lives moves; yours, ours, mine. No COVID, but especially with COVID. Nor do the priorities in investment and public priorities change with what we are living with. What has to happen to put life in the center? We have always had it clear, and we will continue to insist on a Basque system of public, universal, dignified and quality care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u4	Thank you, Mrs. González. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. Well, we've talked about this subject several times, it's not new. And it seems as if they had divided it, that they had collected EH and made an agreement among Podemos. I must say, in the end, that the Popular Party-Ciudadans agree with many points, but with others, we prefer to defend our correction. According to the facts, we have to note that there have been a lot of infections at the hotels, and there's been problems. We can't deny that. And we have said several times these months that it is necessary to take the necessary measures. It is clear that residences have been one of the main sources of infection in this pandemic crisis, which, unfortunately, has also led to a significant number of deaths. We can say, according to the data that we have had access to and the data that have been made public, that in this second wave of the pandemic 36% of the total number of deaths occurred in the Basque residences, which is 103 people. We believe, as my intervention began, that it is necessary... Moreover, in a society that has been characterized by being at the forefront of social policies at many times, whose main competence lies in the outside parliaments, in the management – but also the Basque Government has coordination and inspection powers – we believe that a thorough analysis of the deficiencies, as I said, and the deficits that have occurred throughout the management of this pandemic, is necessary at this time. The data is there; therefore, they cannot be denied. We have also said that, over the course of these months, the Basque Government and also the Members of Parliament – but, above all, I want, since we are in the Basque Parliament, to make an express reference to the management of the Basque Government – have been characterized by some improvisation, by changes in criteria, by changes in the protocols, which have also contributed to the fact that the outside Members themselves were at some point somewhat lost in relation to what guidelines should be followed. We have also seen that not all the necessary tests and tests have been carried out, mainly among the health personnel, the staff working in the residences. We believe that that too was a problem, and that certainly if all those tests had been carried out, if there had also been sufficient protective equipment, then perhaps we would be talking about other figures, fortunately. I was saying that even the protocols have come late, that there have been changes, and that's obviously been a problem in the management of this crisis for the forum people. As I said, we have highlighted the shortcomings throughout many public debates and statements, and in particular in one that occurred in the Permanent Chamber on the management, as I said, of the crisis of the coronavirus. "E el amio 2008, se aprobó la Ley de Servicios Sociales." It is evident that this trial was of great importance at the present moment to determine social services, and to bring forward the jurisdiction of each institution. Later, a portfolio decree regulating exactly the services and services to be provided by each institution was adopted. We also have to say that this law entrusted the Basque Government with duties in relation to the decrees and regulatory development that had to take place, and, as the People's Party has denounced on numerous occasions, this regulatory development was late. It was late for such an ambitious law that it also marked a milestone in our society, because it defined access to certain services and services as a subjective right. In this sense, already in 2016, if my memory does not fail, in this Basque Parliament there is a broad agreement in which we urged the Basque Government to forward the decrees that were still to be referred. There is a decree that has arrived late – and, moreover, we believe that it has not met the expectations generated in the Basque sector and society – as was the decree of residential centres, which already on two specific occasions this House urged the Basque Government to refer itself – to be approved, in fact – in 2019 and 2020. As I said, this decree did not meet the expectations generated, and besides, as I also pointed out in one of the plenary sessions dealing with this issue – the last one, in 2020, if I remember correctly – we said that even the guidelines recommended by specific bodies that had made mandatory reports on this decree and its forecasts, such as the report of the Legal Advisory Commission and the ESC, had not been followed. In this sense, a specific agreement was adopted in the Basque Parliament to revise this decree, so that it could be revised in several directions: alde batatik, kontuan eduki behar zen egoitza batzuen eta besteen tamaina eta typologia; ratioek ere nahikoak izan behar zuten, eta gradu batzuek eta besteek dituzten atarta-beharrak ere berrikusi behar zirens. From this Illus, then, we think that it is proper and necessary to renew this decree. But at the same time, the Popular Party-Ciudadans think we must at the present moment make a larger plan, and we demand that we make a necessary inquiry and meet the necessary measures. It is true that, in this compromise amendment, in many of the aspects that are included or specific proposals that are included in relation to the duties of the Basque Government, we can agree, but it is true that in others we have some nuances. And, in that sense, well, we are not going to oppose the compromise amendment reached by the EH Bildu and Podemos groups; but, well, we will also maintain our own to put it to the vote. We, as I said, believe that it is necessary to revise the decree in some of the forecasts, as approved. Also, apart from the development of specific inspection plans, as reflected in the original proposal, we believe that it is also more appropriate to speak, in our view, of the fact that the Basque Government exercises the inspection powers set out in the Social Services Act. And, in relation to the protocols, we can agree on some aspects that were pointed out in the original initiative, in relation to preventive measures in essential centres, actions in case of contagion and protective measures, especially with regard to the implementation of CRPs. I have to say – and I am finalizing, Madam President – that the amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party, despite the attempts to bring the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party closer to the original one, therefore, man, remains very short, because I mean that it is nothing ambitious; I expected more ambition on the part of..., or this group expected more ambition on the part of the Basque Government than to point out that the social health contingency plan will continue to be implemented, in collaboration with the outside parliaments. We also need to talk about the social and health area and, in the proposal of the People's Party to be discussed in the coming days, we are talking about this issue at a particular point, and that once and for all the Basque Government should assume the health expenditure that they carry and that they are assuming, as is clear, for example, in the Álava Foral Chamber, where an agreement on the health resources that the Álava Foral Chamber is paying must be updated. A comprehensive model of social and health care coordinated with the primary network should be promoted. Well, this is the second point of the amendment. We believe that it is unambitious, that it remains short, and we would like, in that sense, to see some self-criticism on the part of the Basque Government, which we believe would have been necessary on such an important and essential subject at this time. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u6	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u7	Yeah. Thank you, President. COVID-19 has generated many health, social and economic effects, and has especially severely hit the homes of older people in our country and in the rest of the world, where a high number of deaths have occurred. We have public, private and concerted centers. Care is provided at the individual level in our homes, but also collectively. Both types of care are essential and absolutely necessary. The pandemic has clearly revealed a latent problem in the area of care and has put on the table the business of many residences that pay low wages to their workers, with little staff and poor resources, seeking the maximum economic benefit. We need to delve into what a decent and dignified life means that meets our basic needs, where the notion of care is fundamental. The confinement has forced citizens to stay at home, to take care of their children, their elders, their dependents 24 hours a day for months, and it has been women who have mainly taken care of home care, combining all this with teleworking when necessary. Mandatory coexistence has also increased male-based violence. Domestic workers have also suffered the consequences, and measures were taken at the national level to alleviate the negative effects on the sector. A criticism has been made of the functioning of the system as a whole, which has put into value the necessary work and the necessary consumption in our society. My group, the Basque Socialists, believes that we must avoid adopting adjustment policies that affect social services and the most vulnerable groups. We must continue to build the commons, public services as a fundamental guarantee, and I agree with you, Mrs González, that it is essential to have a strong public service. That is why, in the Government agreement, we have attached great importance to this issue. People are the fundamental element of the political commitment to the action of the new Basque Government. Our commitment is to consolidate and strengthen public health and education services, and to ensure social policies that contribute to the human development of Basque society. The Basque Country has been a pioneering community in the implementation of social inclusion policies, in the fight against poverty and in the development of social services; we cannot forget that. The progress made has been important, but we are also aware that we are currently approaching a critical period. That is why, in the Government agreement, we express our commitment to progress towards its elimination and to achieve an increasingly just, equitable and inclusive society, without anyone remaining behind. In order to respond to this commitment, we will ensure and strengthen social policies, in particular those affecting social inclusion, social services and housing, which have a significant impact on the fight against poverty, the elderly, the family and children, as well as on migrants. The agreement also recognises the commitment to develop the Basque system of social services, taking into account the Community approach and the principles of quality, innovation, new balance in care and effectiveness. To this end, it is stated that the second strategic plan for social services will be drawn up and the inter-institutional social services fund will be consolidated in order to ensure the provision of the services covered by the Social Services Portfolio Decree. We plan to evaluate and complete this portfolio of benefits of the Basque system of social services, especially in relation to the care of the elderly in the field of care, care, accommodation and care. Within the framework of the Government agreement, we are also committed to aligning the decree governing residential centres. In this regard, after analysing the operational measures resulting from COVID-19, it was noted that a regulation regulating the system of concertation of services will be promoted, so as to guarantee the appropriate conditions for the development of services. It is also reported that the investment of the pyramid of care will be monitored and the comprehensive strategy planned, enhancing the services to those who receive care at their usual home, in order to guarantee their full life-saving autonomy. Because people have to be able to choose whether they want to continue living in their home or want to go to other centers to be cared for. The agreement also includes an interinstitutional plan to combat unintended loneliness. It also states that basic social services will be enhanced to improve the care of the elderly at home and that programmes for the respite of caregivers will be strengthened, and that a new comprehensive model of social and health care will be promoted, coordinated with the primary health care network for the elderly. Reference is also made to the Basque strategy to support caregivers and to the adoption of a caregiver status. That is to say, there are many measures already included in the government agreement, which puts on the table the importance which the Basque Government has given itself to precisely what we are debating today, that is, the importance of care. It is important to take a long-term care approach, starting from the elderly who live autonomously in their homes, prolonging this autonomy as much as possible, if they want to stay there, offering them the necessary alternatives to be able to carry it out; and then, also in this process, define which comprehensive strategy we want in the future. That's also important. That is why we are going to defend our amendment as a whole, the amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups. And since this is the second debate we have on the area of care, I wanted to put on the table the amount and multitude of measures that the government agreement itself takes on this subject and the importance that the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party give to the area and the need to make this change in this integral model of this area. And that is why we have defended this amendment, because many of the things that we are going to put in place, even if they are not part of this amendment, are part of the government agreement. And that is already a firm commitment to this legislature, and there is no need for all these measures to be repeated absolutely in our compromise amendment. That is why I wanted to put them on the table, because that is also there, although it is not specifically included in our amendment as a whole. And we already discussed in the previous plenary session, and it was approved, of course, that we agreed on the need to amend Decree 126/2019 on residences. I also said that that compromise, before it was adopted in the previous plenary, was already taken up in the Government agreement, because we saw it necessary. In addition, we put on the table the two points that our amendment to the whole, which refers to the continued implementation, in collaboration with the outside parliaments, of this general social health contingency plan, and, on the other hand, to the promotion of a comprehensive model of social health care, coordinated with the primary health and social care network, for the elderly, which, as I have said, was already included in our government agreement. We have not been able to reach agreement on the compromise amendment. We try, but that doesn't mean that we necessarily always have to give in. There are times when we can consider that it is better to keep our amendment as a whole, and in this case, that is what we have done. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u8	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. COVID-19 took away thousands of people. We must communicate our solidarity to the families touched by this painful and unresolved loss. There have been older people and they're the most vulnerable ones, the most vulnerable ones. We know very well how hard it has been for them and their families. We know that fear, the distance and uncertainty with the family are enormous. There are older men who suffer most in this pandemy, the weaker ones, who are the most needed; and even the older, the older ones, the older ones, the older ones, the professionals who live together with the older. To them, even today, my confession, especially one of my close professionals who fights against the virus these days. You'll get out. Let's throw the view back. The new normality began on the 19th of June in Araban, Uska, and Gipuzia. By this time it was possible to limit the extent of the plague, as shown by the major variables, and to place confidence in the restraint of the situation. Among June and July the cases had fallen. During the next few weeks, however, the situation became worse, and the number of cases continued from one week to another. We may say that we have been standing in front of a second wave, and what is the size or anguish of this second wave? The following has been the development from September 8th to today. On the 8th of September, Ignacio Graitanus, co-ordination of the Osalist plan, said: "Nos harpredido la prontitud de secunda ola." Irailaren 16an, Garitanok hau esan zuen: "The second wave is all that can be controlled." Irailaren 21ean, Garitanok berak: "Health considers the peak of the second wave to be overtaken, but calls for prudence. With these data and figures that mark the epidemiological evolution of COVID-19, I would say that the peak of the second wave has been exceeded, but it should be noted that it is much more prudent to evaluate with weeks of evolution than with days. In this sense, prudence and see the data." Irailaren 30ean, Garitanok berriro: "The stabilization of the second wave, which has been evidence in the positive data for a few days now, seems to be confirmed this Wednesday in the death data. Keeping stable is very good news in a pandemic; the trend is the same. If the second wave has passed, I would say that, if the trend is maintained, yes. But let's be careful and observe the data." Urriaren 1ean: "The pandemic has left 385 new cases of COVID-19 in the last few hours in the 10,969 PCR tests that have been conducted, representing a positive percentage of 3.5%, the lowest rate of this second wave of the pandemic." Urriaren 4an, ordea, portentajea % 5.1, according to WHO recommendations. There have been hundreds of people recently infected at the hotels. We could say it's a big deal. But we must consider that thousands of residents are Euskakid, and that a great deal of it has passed the disease. Adineko egoitzei erreparatuz, a total of 716 users of Basque residences have died per covid since the beginning of the pandemic, which accounts for 36% of the total deaths per coronavirus in Euskadi – Mrs. Garrido said. What is the percentage in Germany or Austria? In Germany, we are talking about 37%; in Austria, 39%. They value it positively given the circumstances. Even so, this is no reason to be congratulated, but we are talking about 36%. His human losses, he bathed zarbat ondo egin izanaren island izan daiteke, eta zinez diot Gobernu honek autokritika egiten duela. Baina mahai hainbeste datu jartzea gustazen zaigunez, bada, boda, denak alderatu beharko lirateke; maita hau ére, nahiz éta datu gogorra edo latza izan. Halaxe from: COVID-19ak fateuriko osasun-larrialdi honetan, adinekoen egotza-zentroetako ebiltzaile zein profesionalak partona zurgarrien bilakatu dira. Centers that become perfect ecosystems for virus infection, because people of high risk live together, by age, where many of the residents are not autonomous. The Basque Country, it says, was the original initiative introduced by the Collectors: that the free institutions have never been generally and efficiently grafted into the rules of recommendation, measure, and activity given by the medical authorities, and that the housing centers are in want of the proper compositions against COVID-19. Even Mrs. Gonz of Podemus has said that institutions have not done enough. Such expressions are particularly painful, and I do not appreciate them from political point of view, but from human point of view. For people of age, the most vulnerable person is just because of all the professionals who work with them, and the institutions that have done the hard work to keep this second wave, and have done a great deal of work and done it, it's not fair. It is not right, first and then, to consider when they are done. He introduced the Basque People to the original initiative on the 28th of August. At the beginning of my participation, I have made a brief summary of my development. It's unfair and unfair, and society doesn't deserve it. Basque society has lived important changes in the past decade. Growing hope of life, and becoming incurable diseases, are a proof of the great development of the land and of the social system, but they plan new realities and new wants, and especially the necessity of further prolonged care in their homes. Mrs. Sánchez herself has explained that I am not going to say the same thing, what is the situation? We cannot, therefore, forget the most important part, the concern of all: the pandemy; the cry from one mouth of this pandemy: Better watch over and protect people. And what is the most effective instrument for that? We said: I'm talking about 126/2019 Decree of the Social Service Acts, 2008, and an elderly Eucharist residence center. This description was the result of the interaction and co-ordination of all involved agents. This agreement came from the hand of a high degree of consent, but we all know that the proposition of our original initiative, the Basque Country, has never been pleased with this decree, and that we have only to go to Hemerotera to verify it; nor to Podemosi together, and that, when we speak of it to-day, it has been repeated again. On the next day, almost every day, the Basque Country has presented several offers in order to postpone this decree in the parliament. And he has not succeeded, because the Parliament has never agreed to change the decree. Hablami de revision, no de modifiard. I said it in the Persistent Computation of April, and to-day I repeat: Refused the Basque Country to take advantage of this crisis of health to re-establish this war against the decree it has been for a long time. The parliamentor asked for a Decree revision, as I said, and that's what you're doing. It is important to take a long-term care approach, starting from the time that the elderly live autonomously in their homes, to extend this autonomy as much as possible through support, and to offer alternatives to the home in accordance with the projects of life, desires and needs of the elderly. In this process of defining this comprehensive strategy, it will be necessary to know in depth what have been the weaknesses of the socio-health care, which have been them; how the situations have been renewed, because they have been renewed; and, on the basis of what has been learned, what is the new model of residential care we want for the country, always in collaboration with the competent institutions in providing such services. The Basque Government and the department are working on this issue. The current model will be analyzed, trying to shape the new model we need. Since the beginning of the coronavirus health crisis, at all times, the Department of Health has been offering guidance, inspections, recommendations, protocols, indications, support to the centres of the elderly throughout the Euskadi. Since then, the support offered has been multiple, articulating the general social health contingency plan. So, in the public or private centres of the old, the health hospital is in need of strengthening the medical department only through the Economics Department of Health. Mrs. Sánch has also mentioned all the actions and engagements received in the court of government. Even the Department of Police society has something to say and to do, and all that in common with the forums. The principal assemblies of the three countries have recently been met with a general political meeting, in which they have shown what challenges are, what has been done and what is to be done. Occupation and co-ordination. Denbora gutxi daukat; beraz, bukatzeko, I want to highlight the strategic nature of the collaboration between the Basque Government, the outlaws and the municipalities, and this gives rise to permanent contact between the Government, outlaws and Eudel through shared protocols for the management of cases and recommendations in the residential area of elderly people and persons with disabilities from municipal home help services. Inter-agency collaboration, as I said, is one of the main strengths. We row in the same direction. Bide Honetan could not behar dogu aurrera begiratzen. Gobernu Honek aurrera begiratzen du, ez alboetara, éta horretan dihardu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. The turn of the group that has not issued any corrections: Myst. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I regret the pain that the COVID-19 has caused with special care in the residences of elderly people both in the Basque Country and in the rest of Spain. Apart from any other consideration, my condolences and those of my entire party to those who have suffered the worst consequences of this pandemic of the health crisis caused by the coronavirus. I also regret the repeated inaction of the administrations with competence in this field, because the difficulties faced by day-to-day managers and workers of senior residences come from afar, without the necessary measures being taken to prevent the tremendous impact of COVID between their residents and their families. And, given the situation with studies that claim that at least one out of every three residences in Spain is not prepared to face new waves of contagion, it draws attention to the fact that the government team complies with rhetoric, with an amendment lacking the most elementary concrete. "Appropriate management in social health centres" or "integral model of social health care": words with which to get out of the way, but which mean nothing. In Vox we believe that residences for the elderly deserve priority attention and that the time has come for those who have the responsibility to do so to realize already that socio-health space of coordination between health care and social care, a model that you have been talking about for many years, but which is far from being a reality. Special mention deserves the paper that the second Vice-President of the Government has been making in this area of residences, demanding competences that he avoided as the numbers of contagion and deaths grew, or attacking unjustifiably private or concerted residences, residential centers in which with very few resources they have fought side by side against the coronavirus for the health of residents, family members and workers. They do not deserve that treatment, and even less of those who hold a position of responsibility such as that held by Mr. Iglesias. In short, we're with the elderly. We believe that the time has come to bet on a quality residential model in which both private and public-owned residences can coexist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u12	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mr. Rodriguez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. He had prepared this debate with the greatest of diligence, with the greatest of jealousy. I have spent many hours preparing this debate; I have prepared it conscientiously. He had prepared an endless amount of data which, for example, showed that those grandiose words did not have their budgetary reflection and therefore their reflection in reality; examples of other administrations, such as Nafarroa, which has already audited their centres today, or Catalonia, which has announced the hiring of nearly 2,000 new women workers in the residences; or different reasons for gradually dismantling that production of that factory of excuses so as not to act that the groups of the Government have opened. But I'm going to do something unusual; I'm going to do something very unusual. I quit. [[Rompe el Papel de su discurso]] My partner Oihana usually says that the personal is political. I have been fighting in the field of social services for 15 years, working in the field of social services, and already in this situation, personally, that is, I feel only frustration and despair. It's all I feel: frustration and hopelessness. I don't want to participate in this. I don't want to participate. I do not want to turn this debate into a puree of sorghum reproaches. Don't count on me; I won't participate. It's the fourth time we've decided not to act; it's the fourth time. And that's a collective, collective failure. I am not telling you; it is a collective failure, of unequal responsibility, but a collective failure. So I'm just going to paraphrase former Councilwoman Murga and tell them that there are people in our centers who are still sick, suffering and dying because we don't take action. Am I not able to transmit that? Well, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u14	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Together Podemos... Quiet, please. Silence, silence. Together, Podemos-IU. Mrs. González from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u15	Can you hear me? Yeah? Well, first of all, I tell Ander about my solidness. It's hard to talk about auzolan auzolan We know that the legislative issue... And, well, I'm glad that the government agreement includes those strategic plans, those evaluations, that portfolio development, that new model of social and health care, the Statute of... [[Microphone powered out]] But you have to say that the paper is all about it. Do we have a citizen prepared with the situation we are living in to extend our time and time and time? We know that legislative reforms require calm, reflection and consensus, but we are at a time when what we are proposing here today are very concrete, very concrete, very practical measures, and when I believe that, in substance, we all agree. What I have not just understood – and I happen to be unlike Ander, who has been here for 15 years, and I have been here for almost 15 days – is that, as a citizen, with new eyes from this chair, if she saw me from home, she would not understand what is happening, because, if we read, surely, her government agreement and read the measures that we bring here today, they go in line. That's where I leave it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u16	Thank you, Mrs. González. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I do not believe, Mrs Arrizabalaga, that this is a question, not only on a sensitive but also a dramatic subject, of drawing statistics and comparing figures. I believe that only one deceased in the Basque residences deserved a reflection by the Basque Government. The fact that there are many measures in a government agreement I believe is not a guarantee, seeing what we have seen over the past parliamentary term. In the investiture plenary, the lehendakari announced a series of commitments in this very rostrum, and this MP, when she was listening with absolute respect to the one who is the lehendakari – it is supposed – of all Basques, for she was remembering the plenary four years ago, Mr lehendakari. You made reference here to commitments on specific matters; you made reference to commitments on specific laws, laws that were the same as you announced four years ago in this very rostrum. I therefore believe that these are no longer excuses, and I say this because I believe that this issue is important and relevant enough so that it should receive enough attention and dedication from the lehendakari and the corresponding departments. The truth is that I am surprised that the groups that support the Government come out to this rostrum and say that it is the intention of the Basque Government to revise a decree that we knew a year ago – it is that things, then, have not been done well by the Government – a decree that took a while to arrive. Therefore, I think there too should be some self-criticism. I hope that, at this moment, the Basque Government will already give a ravine, once and for all, which is what Basque society is waiting for, which is what the sector is waiting for, which is what families and older people are waiting for, a clearly vulnerable sector of our society, as has been shown throughout this pandemic; and, of course, that this Basque Government, with the lehendakari at its head, will make a self-critical review of some of the aspects and the very management it has made of many issues, including that of residential centres; and that this Basque Government, once and for all, will also assume its responsibilities in terms of coordination and inspection, as I say, on such an important issue as the management of our residential centres. Look, Mr Lehendakari, today we have met in the media that you are now going to quote the various groups represented in this House. I have to tell you my disappointment, and I think that announcement is late, Mr. lehendakari. I believe that, even if you now have a majority between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, that majority that you are going to boast of throughout today also in this plenary by approving agreements between you, of course, cannot be an excuse to face the challenges that we have as a society and the challenges that the Basque Government has. Therefore, I hope that in that round, which, as I say, had to have been produced earlier by deference to the plurality of Basque society to which you so often refer, by deference also and by respect for the moments we are living, by respect for that unity and those broad agreements to which you refer, which we are not seeing in this House – and I believe that because of the lack of more involvement in specific matters, such as the one we are seeing today on residential centres – I hope that in that round of contacts really priority issues for Basque society are addressed; and, of course, that one of those issues, apart from employment, economic recovery, economic recovery, our industries and sectors that are experiencing it badly, of course, is the situation of our elders, be the demographic challenge – which was also another of the commitments that you have acquired from the past legislature and which has not fulfilled – be the ageing of the population, be the situation of the residences, and, once and for all, are put to work with this issue. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u18	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u19	Let's see, Mrs. Garrido, reflection is taking place. What is evident is that, when the residence decree was passed in 2019, no one could imagine that we could suffer the effects of a pandemic like the one we have lived, obviously; if not, it would have been done, surely – I am convinced – otherwise. That is why we have indicated in our amendment to the whole of the need to make that revision of that comprehensive model. We've come across a reality that we couldn't even imagine could happen. When the pandemic began, when the confinements began, when we closed our residences, we didn't know how long the pandemic would last. And we've seen right now that it's going to lengthen much longer than we thought at first. It is also now placed on the table to assess the balance between the health protection of all older persons within the residences and their health and the influence that such long-term confinements can have on their mental health, by depriving them of that continuous contact with their relatives, which is very important to them too, but which was made thinking precisely of protecting their health. We have to evaluate everything, and correct our Basque system of social services, and adapt them, of course, to this reality. I have already put on the table that in our agreement we have collected a lot of measures. And, Mrs Gonzalez, I agree with what you have said. It is just that on many of the issues we agree. It is that I have already put on the table, in my first speech, all those concerns that we have and a lot of measures that are reflected in the agreement, which, in addition, some of them coincide with points that are reflected in your compromise amendment and on your initiative, and with which we also agree. But, of course, if we do not agree with the whole of the compromise amendment and with the points contained within it, then, in the end, we do not agree to sign that compromise amendment, and we believe that it is better to defend our own. And that is what we have done; that is what we have done. There are points in the original amendment in which Mr Rodriguez – and it is reflected in the compromise amendment – was to urge Parliament to regain the powers that the Basque administrations held during the state of alarm. Let's see, those powers that are collected in a state of alarm and come legally and it is possible in the state of alarm to be able to receive them cannot now be asked to be kept out of a state of alarm. There are things that can be done within an alarm state, and outside the alarm state, so you have other possibilities. For example, to set an example. That is why we are going to defend our amendment as a whole. And, Mrs Martinez, you say that the problem is that scarce resources are being used. I agree with that, too. There is a need to differentiate within the sector between the public sphere of public services and the sphere of private residences. But the problem is that it has been seen that this pandemic has also put on the table that many of these private residences do not invest or apply sufficient resources. It is true; I agree that sometimes the problem has been that they have applied scarce resources, but that must be corrected. Because, of course, the pandemic has put this problem on the table in a more crude way, because there are some who have taken residences as a business business, but people's dignity must also be taken into account. But that, we must value the whole model, we must see everything that has been put on the table, and we, of course, are prepared to do so, and it is a commitment of the Basque Government. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u20	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u21	Thank you again, Mrs. President. The first question is to accept the situation, and what is the situation, what is the proper answer. This Diagnostic must be severe, without kindness and without demagogue, and combines the data and reality which are changed in real time. Diagnostic and attitude, because we have to be or be, and how we must act. Pandemia left some lessons. Mr Rodriguez spoke of collective responsibility; he also spoke of unequal responsibility. I don't think so. The Basque Country has been the sum of all the corrections made by the Union. There's no middle way out there. We've been trying to figure out our position by trying to find out the centers, but the Basque Country has only checked what we're describing. For every contribution we've made there was a consideration. I'm honest with you. What have they contributed to the discussion? What we've worked and suggested, as I said before, has only been tested. And that's not an attempt to understand conversation and understanding each other. You see, at last, what a middle term you've signed between the two teams, together between the Podemos and the Basque People. We understand the differences, and we want to understand them, but the problem is something else. Be honest, you know what the problem is: it is a pattern, a change of pattern. What is the opposition that likes the model for the old ones? And I'm not going to ask you to confess that because you've publicly confessed it to this extra and so many parties. What do you want to do? Where do you want to apply? Where did you apply it? Or didn't you? What house have you set up? Eta ja, Mrs. Garrido, that you urge the lehendakari on this issue... Man, you talk to your compañeros and compañeras in Madrid, really, what your model is and what they want to do. They'd have to comment. Guk eredu ezberdinak defendazzen ditugu, eta hainbattan esan dugu gurea zein den: indarrean dagoen legearena. Our model is that of the law, a decentralized, mixed and participatory model, compatible with universal norms: the law of portfolio, decree of services...; common instruments of valuation, diagnosis, guidance, and that introduce equity in the allocation of resources; an integral and collegiate management that will allow further progress in universality, decentralization and equity, adapting support to needs. This is the commitment of this Basque Government: to continue strengthening and improving a key system to ensure equal opportunities, equality of women and men and social cohesion. And in that it seems to me that we all agree. It was possible that the decree should be carried out without a compartment on the side of the law. But in these cases, if we do not share the principles of the same system, we shall not be able to agree in the future to fix the actions of improving the system. And this is a reality. In so short a time it would be impossible for me to give you all the information I've made about the various and various initiatives I've made during my fun. I have not been able to mention my first share of life, but it is certain that in the struggle against COVID-19 the work of old men's abodes, improvements and adaptations is a reality. And it is not easy, nor will it be easy; for the situation is difficult, and the situation of the residents is numerous. But this government is still working, it's working and it's still working. And, Mr. Rodriguez, I'm serious: Do not despair, do not despair; for, if the will is really a builder, we shall meet on the way. I'm sure of it. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Is the missile going to take the word? He mustn't speak. So we're done arguing, and we're gonna vote for EH, and we're gonna go together to Podemos-IU. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 65; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opposites are 41; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 7.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u23	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 65; the votes are 75; the supporters 6; the opponents are 41; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u24	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 65; the votes given, 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 34; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u25	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "In the same way as the parliamentary policy of the Podemos-IU, the President will use the formula of the House of Communciations of Guernica. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mrs. Podemos-IU is represented and defended by Mrs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u26	Good morning, and thank you, ma'am. This initiative today is related to laity. Roughness And within the laity, this initiative has something to do with what our public representatives take in our daily activities to do with religious things. In this sense, lallia itself, words, even laos laos, And it is that one of the essential characteristics of monotheistic religions is the claim of the universal and absolute truthfulness of their dogmas. These truths, the religious truths, are revelations contained in the sacred books, books written by their prophets and interpreted by the wise, theologians, of each religious community. Neither its origin nor its legitimacy are placed in the rational thinking proper to legal decisions, and certainly not as a result of the democratically expressed will of the citizenry. In the struggle for this normative hegemony, the state, as an apparatus of political power and representative of the sovereign people, succeeded in imposing itself as the subject of the monopoly of norms of a legal nature, already emancipated from that religious truth. And in this context, and so that democratic reason is the only one that guides the state's action – of political power, let's say – secularism, what it prescribes, among other things, is the neutrality of the state, the separation of the state from religious organizations. And how is this concrete about secularism? If we think in terms of religious freedom, and if we meet the theoretical standards of legal theory accepted in all the contexts of all democratic states, as religious freedom, secularism, religious freedom, implies a right in two dimensions: a subjective dimension that refers to those margins of freedom enjoyed by citizens in the exercise of freedom, and an objective dimension that is precisely linked to the way in which political institutions manifest, exercise neutrality; that is, the neutrality of public power, the neutrality of the state, the neutrality of political power directly influences the capacity for religious freedom of citizens. If religious pluralism is admitted in democratic terms, it is also commonly accepted, it is a standard also commonly accepted that the state cannot impose on its practical citizens who are linked to a particular religion. It's a basic, minimal, unspeakable foundation. But neither can the state – and this is also commonly accepted –, in general terms, express any appreciation for the legitimation of religious beliefs or for the way in which they are expressed. Separation also means that the state cannot be ideologically identified with any confession, and, more specifically, this implies that, one – and I am going to say words that come in both constitutional and European law courts – values, religious interests cannot be built up to measure the justice of the rules and acts of the political powers, of the public authorities; two: there can be no confusion between state functions and religious functions; three: the state cannot protect some religions to the detriment of others, nor can there be discrimination against citizens based on their religious ideology or belief. In short, every constitutional state – and when I speak of a constitutional state I speak of any system of government that is defined on the basis of elements of separation, neutrality and defence of the principle of equality in the enjoyment of religious freedom – is a state, is a political power, is a secular system of government. And in these states, in these secular systems of government, as states of law and democracy, the state of religion is liberated, while being forced to separate itself from it. Collaborative relations may take place according to the legitimate interests of the citizenry and as a public service to the citizenry, but, as political power, political power and religion are separated. On the part of citizens, not public authorities, citizenship is free to choose the religious belief it deems appropriate, and to live, moreover, in accordance with its dogmas, while also being obliged to respect the freedom of others. In short, the neutrality of the secular state requires that no particular option – whether religious or not – be a little bit in this sphere of the transcendental ideas of the human being. The neutrality of the secular state requires that no option – whether religious or not – be discriminated against, either positive or negative. There are no public privileges of an option, whatever it is, in a state, in a system of government that is defined as secular. This is the only way to ensure the equal consideration of all individuals as free citizens. Laicism implies the defence of ideological pluralism on an equal footing as a fundamental rule of the rule of law, as well as the establishment of an adequate and effective legal framework that guarantees it and protects it from interference by religious institutions involving advantages or privileges. Well, all this said, when public representatives participate, as public representatives, in religious acts, or when they assume as part of the context of their religious actions, they are lacking in their duty of neutrality. In Euskadi, Euskadin, askotan gertatzen da hau, askotan gertatzen da kargudun publikoek part hartzen dutela zeremonia erlijiosoetan, edo kargudun publikoek, beren jardueren testuinguruan, ereferentia egiten diothela Jainkoari. I have here received examples, but for example, that I should go to St. Ignatius of Azpicus to Mass; that I should participate in the act of canonizing at the San Balentin of the New World; that St. Rocheri of theens in Guernica; the performances of honouring the virgin mother in processions; that when the President swears to his office, the President swears to make references to God, humblely and under his command, as it were, swears to his office. Many instances often occur in Euscadin, and may be said, as I have said, to be contrary to the perfection of neutrality. And therefore, in this sense, and in the principle of the laity to gratify neutrality, the action which we propose here is to demand of the Government a great many things: one, that the necessary regulations of the public officers should be totally civil and unimproved. That, in a way. In another place, let them adapt the rules and protocols of their public understandings, so that the church-relations of any religion should not be invited to civil events, or appeared as a public ruler. And let him add three, and also, that in this doctrine of rule, some criteria concerning the formula of the oath of making the President office, in order to ensure that this formula will be latic, and that no mention of God will be included in him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u27	Thank you, madam. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u28	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. The subject which Mrs. Hatred has brought us is in the presence of the Urcullu act, or the proposition proposed by consequence. At least, in these terms, the occasion of the initiative, and also the title, though the part of the proposition be more extensive, yet the introduction of the woman's hatred to-day, is more extensive. In the last years of this legislature I have discussed most of all social matters, health, and institutions. I have, indeed, discussed the subjects which are more necessary than ever to-day to answer the questions which the citizens suffer. That's why I must confess that I feel very strange discussing this subject today. However, we shall not fall into easy criticism, saying that this other proposition, as it were, is late, or that it has no meaning at all. Anyway, in our opinion, it's an interesting discussion, but, as I have said, we don't think it's a priority to the romances we now have as society. But since we have come to dispute, we will give our opinion and our view. Mrs Gorrotxategi proposes, in her first point, inter alia, that necessary measures be taken to prevent members of the Government from showing any connection to a particular religious confession in the exercise of their office. To begin with, I wish to make clear that EH Collect, in the defence of the liberty of conscience, of the equality of rights, and of public policy, proclaims laity, in so far as it is a part of the legal and political project for our country. These terms, for us, are indispensable. And that is precisely the first point in our amendment. Today, there are many issues that concern us and address us with regard to the policies that guide this coalition Government. But I am sorry to say that the last place on the list occupies the religious link between Mr Urkullu and the rest of the members of the Government. Whether Mr. Urkullu swears his humbled office before God, over the Old Fort of Bizkaia or over the Koran, if that were the case, they pass to the last position when what really matters and we care is how they will perform their office, for what, counting on who and looking at who. There have been many formulas; the formula of the lehendakari Jose Antonio Agirre has been used, Mr Patxi López used another, and, in the future, others can be used. Counselors also took office differently; some in Euskera, others in herdera Another very different thing would be if that religious connection really affected, in our view, in a negative way in the type of policies they carried out. And, there, we would exercise our control over the Government to make our proposals. But the fact, only, of taking office in that way, then, we believe it has no influence. And, on the other hand, I believe that we should also bear in mind, as I said a moment ago, that the different sensitivities of citizens must be ensured, always under the premise of freedom of conscience. And on the other hand, what should the Government transmit either in the statement or in all the acts? Because we can put new elements in here. Why are we left alone in lability/erlijiia in this diakotomy? We only want civil knowledge or military? Or both, for instance? Are we favourable to the dispositions of life and democratic values, or to the inlerance and totalitarian attitudes? Are they for the genus equality or the disseminators? Expendors or inclusives? Now, we believe that if we are to transmit certain values, we should transmit other values, civil, inclusive, and democratic values of life, which are founded on equality. And that is the spirit of our amendment, which, in our view, goes far beyond the original proposal. And, in order to achieve all those objectives that I have just enumerated, we believe that we need a serious, calm and much deeper debate than the one proposed to us; that I do not want to say that its GNP is not, but we believe that it has to go far beyond a non-law proposal, so it supposes. That's why we don't agree with the original initiative. So we're gonna stick to our full-screen correction. And even if it's short, I'll try to explain our plan. At the first point, we ask the government to regulate the policy, to ensure social cohesion, and to protect the interests and sensitivity of all citizens, the regulation of the freedom of consciousness, of thought, and expression. To this end it is indispensable that laity should be received as a key, for laity extends between the different positions of society and the religious and unreligious sensibilities. And to this end it is essential that the confession of the freedom of religion may be confessed, and that all the elements connected with it should be fully confessed. We believe that we have a long way to go as a society in this country, but we do not believe that the pedigree, as it is received in the original initiative, is the best way. At the second point, we ask the government to make a map or inventory. We are not conscious of the presence of a particular religion in our country, of Christianity, established through the Roman Catholic Church, between us and our everyday life. In our country, there has never been any special trouble in the fact that most holiday parties are Christian, or that in our street shops the saints of heaven and the saints of the saints, but above all, the saints have a wide space of evergreen space. But these matters are certainly not compatible with the neutral public circle which freedom of consciousness requires. Magnanimity has these: it is precisely what he sets them up, that we look upon them as natural, that they do not make us conspicuous, and therefore it is hard for us to question them. Hence we believe that even in this case steps are important, because in public space there ought not to be a symbolgy of a specific religion, always considering the respect and care of historical value and of inheritance. And finally, the religions of the various cults which are now assembled at EAE live together with a strong atheist or agnostic tendency, and this tendency must be considered in the pattern of multiplicity which is intended to be handled. To this end positive laity is a fundamental element in the legal system of religious freedom. It is also essential that public powers should develop a legislation so that these liberties may be real and true. This law ought to design mechanism in order to acquire sufficient information about the reality of confessions, and even some reasonable guidelines about the development of this reality in our villages, neighbors, and cities; and yet with the purpose of strengthening the social panic. For this reason we do not agree with the original initiative; we do not think it the best way, and we will defend our correction, and so we ask the rest of our teams. The party proposed a half-way proposal, but, as we explained, we disagree with the exact details you plan. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u30	Good morning, everyone. We are deeply pleased to see the rights of man and the citizen mentioned in an initiative by Parliament, although we believe that the sense with which they have been brought into being is deeply unfortunate. It is precisely because it mixes concepts of a different nature as if of a logical obviousness it is, demonstrating a lack of evident fineness in the exercise of the interpretation of history. Indeed, you deduce from the principle of religious freedom, stated in 1789, the appearance of the secular state, and, frankly, it is not so. They say well when they say that secularism is said in many ways, but linking the concept in relation to the possibility of religions is a little naive. First, they talk about the separation between State and Church. Is it the same in the Middle East countries that fund your party? Secondly, the neutrality of political power in religious matters. I do not know about you, but this debate is already reflected in the Constitution and has been widely developed. An obvious case is the collaboration with the Concert between Government and religious colleges. A task that the Catholic Church has been carrying out for centuries and that we can describe as beneficial. I also remind you of your so commonly lied but little read Arenal Conception, and your defense of the social work of the Church. In any case, read article 10, which says: "No one should be disturbed by their opinions, including religious opinions, as long as their manifestation does not disturb the order established by law." Third: equality in the exercise of religion, religious freedom. I must remind you that our Constitution, in its article 27.3, clearly states this principle: "The public authorities guarantee the right of parents to receive their children's religious and moral formation in accordance with their own convictions". They again show off their diva left condition with a concern completely alienated from the reality of our time. In any case, despite the indefinite nature of his proposal, we have deduced a defense of neutral confessionalism, according to which the State is an absolutely independent entity of the Church. In this way, it would be plausible to eliminate any hint of religiosity, because, after all, the State and the Church are completely separated. A materialistic theory of the State must know that, although in the theoretical exercise Church and State are separable, in practice it is an inseparable reality, because, in many cases, both planes are intertwined. Church and State have plans and programs that intersect with each other. It is a blatant idealism to believe that both states are independent entities. In Vox we believe that the exercise of politics must be based on prudence and good governance, and, with regard to these issues, on differential confessionalism, namely, that the State differentiates every confession according to reality. According to references from the Basque Government, 80% of the population is Catholic. Would it be prudent for the State to turn its back on such a number of believers? Can we deny this reality? Can we classify the Catholic Church as harmful to the interests of the State? What is the risk that you have identified for Spanish society in the presence of religious confessions in the various public events? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u31	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u32	Good morning, President. Thank you. Lehendakari, councillor, councillor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, when my group said "you carry this non-law proposal," well, I was turning around a bit thinking about what to say, and the other day, the other day, when I was in Parliament, I was passing by, through the panels, through the photographic exhibition that was outside, through the celebration of the – the Bureau had a good – 40th anniversary, and I said, "There is one missing; there is a panel missing." Each panel has four or five photographs, and one was missing. Then I remembered what it was: the panel of the Dalai Lama's visit to this Parliament, which spoke from here to the parliamentarians we were at that time, was missing, and the panel of the Dalai Lama's visit was missing. And I thought, "I have already come from Podemos and have taken the panel, because, of course, this of the religious acts linked to public institutions... The Podemos have already come and have taken the panel." I called Protocol. They told me that he had fallen, or that by the wind... or that someone had thrown him. Well, in any case, it seems that his lordship didn't go for the panel where the Dalai Lama came out. In any case, Mrs Gorrotxategi, we are faced with a political initiative which is an example of unproductive declaration. This and the following non-law proposal for this plenary, of course, are certainly unproductive, unfortunately. It is not a debate on secularism; it is a claim to restrict people's freedom. It is contrary to freedom, to the reality of society; it is also altering our deepest traditions, and, above all, full of... I understand complex, animatedversions. They also turn secularism into dogma. And that's not good either. This GNP does not contribute anything, it does not connect with the needs of citizens and it only expresses agrarian conceptions, demolishing consciences, freedom of thought and pointless uniformity. This GNP, Mrs Gorrotxategi, is a waste of time. They could have asked a question, a question to the lehendakari, as to why he uses that formula, or something like that. But, well, that's where the thing would have been, wouldn't it? But what you have done is that we launch ourselves – or you, above all – into an empty pool of meaning. He doesn't have... You, too, mix it all up. The ecclesiastical, the religious is just as civil, is just as civil as the environmental, the trade union, the musical or the gastronomic. The religious and ecclesiastical are equally civil. Why not? Each of us graduate it, apply it in our lives, but it's the same as a civilian or a citizen. The bishop, the priests... are as citizens as you or I, as the lehendakari, as the lawyers who accompany us, as the rest of the citizens; they are equal, as citizens, and have their space in society as everyone else. PNL says, in its point two, that no religious representatives will be invited to civil acts. It just doesn't make sense. And, besides, it's a bit of a contradiction, isn't it? That is, can we not and cannot invite the lehendakari in their acts, acts of cooperation, acts of human rights, to so many people belonging to an NGO – and there are many NGOs linked to religious orders or religious movements, or to a university, to a neighborhood parish, a social dining room, a religious association welcoming immigrants or helpless persons, a group of nuns who house women in situations of marginalization or exploitation, religious caregivers of elderly people and people in situations of poverty who collaborate with public institutions, that is to say, Basque missionaries who raise schools and hospitals in third world countries –? Can't they be invited to civil acts? I can't believe you think that. I mean, it doesn't make any sense, Mrs. Gorrotxategi. Let's see, can't we deliver, can't they deliver the award Ignacio Ellacuría of the Basque Cooperation Agency of the Basque Government because Ellacuría was a theologian, Jesuit, rector of a Catholic university, murdered by the Salvadoran dictatorship? Can't, doesn't it make sense, doesn't that religious connotation fit within what is an act of a government department? It doesn't make sense, Mrs. Gorrotxategi. Besides, I don't know; let's see more examples. We have brought, with the consent of your group at the previous table, the arch of the convent of Santo Domingo, and we have put it on the way out of Parliament, so that we may contemplate it when we arrive and contemplate it by the walkers who pass through Florida. We've done it with your consent, with your consent. And it's normal. It's an arch that was from a convent that was here and that with its... Look, in the entrance, already in the inner entrance, we have Tobias and Angel Tobias and Angel Tobias and Angel And we put that name, among all the parliamentary groups, in the Tomás Moro room; among all the parliamentary groups. I remember that, well, there was Mrs. Celaá – and we all signed –, there was Mr. Larreina, there was Mr. Ormaetxea, there was a servant. And we put, we asked the Bureau... It is the only room in this Parliament with its own name: room Tomás Moro. Who is Tomás Moro? For Saint Thomas Moro is the patron – and that is why we put him – of the rulers and parliamentarians. And that's normal. That's who we are. We are in the society that we are, with our traditions, with our references, with our freedom. And, by the way, in that earlier reference to the Dalai Lama, this House invited – all parliamentary groups assumed it – the Dalai Lama. And it was an exciting, unique day, on which some of us were present, some of the parliamentarians. I suppose... yes, Mr. Urkullu was then a parliamentarian. Mr. Iturgaiz was there, too. That is, some and some others were also present. And nothing happened. Well, some Chinese citizens protested, but, well, but no... but, nothing more; nothing more happened. And here was the Dalai Lama, right here, taking his warm water, with his apple inside a cup, with the white handkerchief, so, speaking of what he believed, of what he thought of society, and, well, illustrating us. And we, therefore, are happy. We all took pictures. And he was also very nice. I mean, that's what happens to normality. And then the lehendakari will decide how to proceed, with his convictions, how to proceed in his oath. In 2009, moreover, in the ninth parliamentary term, in this Parliament, the representative of Ezker Batua also welcomed the fact that in Navarre the day of San Francisco Javier had agreed as the day of the Foral Community, interpreting the feeling of that society. You have to respect people's feelings. And he was pleased that the day of San Francisco Javier was the day of the Community. Well, that connects the institutional with the religious as well, and with tradition and the feeling of people, doesn't it? Well, normally. And he congratulated, and it was Ezker Batua who said this question, about the feast of the Basque Autonomous Community on October 25; well, he said that that date united all. Well, here are many things that unite us all. Someone has remembered that 80% of Basques declare themselves... well, they have their ties to the Catholic in one way or another. Well, that's the fundamental element. Of course, something has been rectified from that debate, hasn't it? Because, now, they're getting in a tough position every time. Now, I suppose this initiative, within the structure of initiatives that sometimes parliamentary groups, political parties, often have, will serve for other initiatives at another level. This initiative will be the starting point to ask in the municipalities of Euskadi to stop celebrating, by little civilian, the day of San Prudence or the day of San Sebastián or the Virgin of Begoña or the day of Reyes or the Holy Week or the Virgin of Carmen in so many fishing ports of our land. I mean, this initiative makes no sense, Mrs Gorrotxategi. If there is a lehendakari who swears on the sickle and the hammer, you will surely be so happy, but the lehendakari swears on his convictions and on what he considers he has to swear, because that gives him strength, moreover, to rule – hopefully so. And, at the third point, they want to impose not letting the freedom of each person be a reference to these very essential commitments; they want to interfere in the convictions and conscience of the people. In addition, look, the Basque Government itself has promoted, through its bill of worship, which introduced the previous legislature and which will now present... we assume that it will bring it to this House, the creation of a Basque Interreligious Council. That is, you want to collaborate with the religions, with the different religions that are here, that are implanted here, in which the Basques believe or in which the people who live here believe. And that's normal, too. And it's good that we have that relationship.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u33	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u34	Yeah, I'm done. Mrs Gorrotxategi, there are no privileges for any religious confession; there is recognition, there are state relations or government relations with all of them, and that is what must be with absolute normality. The freedom of persons with initiatives such as this cannot be narrowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u35	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u36	President, ladies and gentlemen. The initiative brought to us today by Mrs Gorrotxategi is to censor the way in which the Lehendakari took office; it seeks to do so under a political, philosophical theory which, moreover, has explained extensively in his speech, but with a total lack of legal basis as regards the act itself which is intended to censor. And I'll start with this last one. You, as a Member of Parliament, are aware of the Rules of Procedure of this House. And Rule 167 of the Rules of Procedure sets out how this act is to be held, and says that it is in an extraordinary session, what was done; where was held: in the House of Junctions of Gernika – there we were – and with what procedure, which is "jury or promise under the Tree of Gernika", and so it was formulated. That being the case, what is to be asked is what has been done wrong, what has not been done, what is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure; what is to be asked about what has been done to your parliamentary activity; what is to be said about the damage to your rights as a public office or your political philosophy; whether you know or not that the procedure for amending the Rules is not that of the non-legislative proposal, if you think it is necessary to amend it in this respect. Certainly, the oath may have a religious connotation; it is not necessary for it to have it, but it may have that religious connotation, and, on this occasion, as we could appreciate, it did. Personally, I am in favour of the promise; it is a more intimate, more personal formula, does not put anyone as a witness and does not touch any religion, becoming a good formula for atheists, agnostics and apostates. But I am surprised that, as you seem to be also in favour of this formula, which actually pursues the idea of the oath, you have kept in your non-law proposal the figure of the oath. I do not understand this and other contradictions of his initiative, except that it was the result of a heat without reflection, in which the secular reference has stood aside. Article 16 of the Spanish Constitution guarantees the ideological, religious and religious freedom of individuals. Article 20 recognizes and protects the right to freely express and disseminate thoughts, ideas and opinions. Mrs Gorrotxategi, I am not one of those who invoke God; I do not believe in him, much less since I learned of a Castilian saying that "God does not fulfill lusts or humbly address", but I can assure you that in this House, and in a very transversal way among your lordships, to hear expressions such as "that God come down and see him" or "thanks to God" you will find them in your minutes, as I say, in a very transversal way. It has never occurred to me to propose to the President that she withdraw the word to the person doing it, but I give her the clue if she wants to make another non-law proposal. Let's go to philosophy. How does the expression of lehendakari affect pluralism, the rights or freedoms of all persons? What indoctrination can be detached from this form of oath for those present in the said act? The Basque institutions, following this oath, remain, in my view, equally independent from any religious organization or confession. The formula chosen by the lehendakari neither intervenes nor mortgages, in any way, the political, social, cultural or economic development of the citizenry or its institutions. Mrs Gorrotxategi, the oath has been interpreted throughout history as a public and solemn act, in order to ensure the fulfilment of political duties. oaths have been made for God, for the goddess Isis, for the god Osiris, for the sacred bull Apis, for the crocodile Sobek, for Castor, Poleux or Hercules, without forgetting oaths for the sun, air, iron, garlic, legumes and other herbs. The oath has also been used to confirm a contract, to deny an offence or to justify a right. That is why, at the time when we live, the oath or promise of a post accompanies the political control of Parliament, the action of justice – where appropriate – or the control of the Court of Auditors, among other control bodies, control bodies that, proven to be, are more effective and secure than the oath or promise. We will therefore reject your proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u37	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Cuckoo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. Well, several are the issues raised by the Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza group in its non-law proposal, which, to a large extent, go beyond the formula used in the lehendakari oath at the Gernika House of Junctions. We could say that much of them revolve around what is called management of religious and non-religious diversity. We live in a reality which is more and more secular, but at the same time religion is more and more important in our society. This is our reality, and this reality demands proper treatment for the public. And this is a long time since Eusk0's been working on it for the right management of the religious organization in our country. I'd like to remind you of the activities that have been driven by the government in this Chamber. On March 20th of 20th, 2015, the President introduced his commitments to society. A multiple, integrated and integrated society, a partnership between culture and religion. "Religion is one of the universally acknowledged human rights in all the international covenants and treaties of human rights. Within this liberty, the right of being individually or in groups any religious belief, and of having no religion or belief at all. One option is as lawful in a democratic community as the other, and every man must be allowed to choose freely, and to express publicly, that respect for the rights of the rest, and respect for public order, is no other bounds than the respect of public democracy. Publique Powers ought to promote proper conditions for it, and to deprive them of the difficulties which hinder the exercise of those rights by individual or groups. All the citizens have a right not to stand aloof from their religious belief or belief, and to be a member of a religion or not, and to obtain the freedom of conscience, that respect for the rights of others is only a limit." "Essequently, from his point of view, he confirms the commitment to human beings, and he again protects the harmonious partnership of living, on the other hand between the different members of religion and the different beliefs, and between the believers and the unbelievers. We also think it appropriate to recall the report on the positive management of religious diversity in the Basque Country. As you can see, there is a commitment from the parties that we support this Government to move forward on this issue. And there is a commitment from this government – not just words, but also deeds – to move forward in this area of coexistence. We bet on that positive management of religious and non-religious diversity. But what you are putting to us today, Mrs Gorrotxategi, is not, in our view, a positive management, but a tax. For this reason, we do not share much of the issues raised in your non-legislative proposal. We do not consider it appropriate to eliminate the presence of representatives of the various religious denominations from any kind of public act. In some events their presence will be useful, even necessary, and in others no. We agree that he shouldn't have any special treatment on a public event, but that he should be excluded from any event organized by our organizations, we think it's not positive at all. We believe that it is necessary to create spaces of relationship, of stable relationship, normalized, and not precisely spaces of exclusion. In this regard, it will be very important to develop one of the provisions contained in the draft law on centres of worship, namely the one concerning the creation of the Basque Interreligious Council, which Mr Barrio recalled. As for the formula used by the lehendakari, the truth is that we do not think it is one of the biggest concerns of Basque citizens at this time. "Lehendakariak, Eusko Legebiltzarreko Mahaia ondoa duela, zina edo agintza egingo du Gernikako Arbolaren azpian". The exact name of the Legebiltzar Honetako Erregelamenduaren 167. artikuluak. So far, the presidents have changed the formula they've used to swear, and there have been slight alterations. Every president has been free to make changes, so we want him to continue being so. Four years from now, a woman or a man will swear to his charge, and we want him to use the formula he wants. We believe that the parliamentarian who is invested by this Parliament as the lehendakari of our Government should have the option of being able to establish his own oath formula, making it clear, yes, that he has unequivocally sworn. It has been so far and so we understand from the Basque Nationalist Party that it must continue to be, with freedom to choose its formula, with freedom to choose its formula, as did its colleagues, Mrs Gorrotxategi, in the Congress of Deputies, in the Senate, in its takeover in the current legislature, for example; they could freely choose the formula to swear or abide by the Constitution of the Kingdom of Spain, as you would have done, Mrs Gorrotxategi, if anyone had had to swear as lehendakari would have been you. Surely he would have chosen, he would have liked to be able to choose the formula that you wished with freedom, with freedom. The case is that there have been some elections, there is a majority and there is a lehendakari, which is the lehendakari Urkullu, not you. But, in any case, we defend the possibility that, even in four years' time, if the Basque citizen decides to do so he has the confidence of this House in the office of lehendakari, he can freely choose the formula he wishes. With regard to the amendment by the Euskal Herria Bildu Group, we consider that there are points..., there is one point, specifically, with which we agree, and there are issues with which, well, we have some doubts, some doubts. As far as the bill is concerned, I have already commented to you that it is part of the government agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, and will therefore return to this House. In the case of the second point, of that elaboration of an inventory of religious symbols in buildings and public spaces, the truth is that we do not see its necessity. It is clear – and that is so – that there are places of worship in public buildings, especially in the health, care and even prison areas, although this area is not yet within the competence of this House and this Government. And it is clear that, in many cases, it will have to move towards the generation of multi-denominational or other spaces, but we do not see the need for an inventory as extensive as the one you propose. And, in the case of the first point of your amendment, therefore, the doubts we have most come into the legal field. In other words, a legal development of the kind you propose could conflict with – I believe – Article 148 of the Constitution; it could also conflict with the Organic Law on Religious Freedom, and with those different rulings of the Constitutional Court in which you have made that material reservation of legislation in what would be organic legislation. We therefore see that we do not know to what extent we could have a gap, if I may say so, in order to be able to introduce ourselves into this legislative area. And for all this, then, we are not going to support your amendment, which – we insist – contains points with which we agree and points which will have to be further developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u39	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Passing by answers, together, the lady of Podemos-IU has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u40	Thank you, ma'am. From behind. The Representative EAJ has, I believe, placed the subject in the proper place, that is, in this management of religious multiplicity, as the religious multiplicity must be digested. I think that's one of the best points to talk about. The result, the result, the theoretical conclusion, is, that it is contrary to the conclusion which I here defend. He sometimes says that the neutrality to sum up multiplicity is sometimes necessary to deny that, sometimes, the religious thing should be removed from the public, and sometimes not. There's our contradiction, or there's our opposition. To what, and to which, is it not? And, tied up with it, he says I'd like to, I suppose, if I'd sworn to the charge or promised I'd like to use the formula I want, wouldn't I? But it is certain that we all expect a formula which is not acceptable, that is to say, unacceptable; And in that sense, I think it's not acceptable to swear in a formula, in the name of God. The Socialist representative told me that there was no legal basis and that the reform of Article 167 of the House might be necessary, and that therefore no reference was made to this issue and that a GNP is not the appropriate way to address this regulatory reform. No, the truth is that there is no need to reform the Rules of Procedure. It's just that the Rules don't say we have to swear in God's name. There is therefore no need to amend the Regulation. In any case, I am left with one of the conclusions of the Socialist representative, and he accepts it, he has expressly accepted the religious connotation of the formula of the oath. That's what I'm left with. There has been a religious connotation in the oath formula. As for the people, they tell me that it is an unproductive statement; that it is, moreover, contrary to the freedom of the people, and that it interferes, moreover, with the conscience of the people. Nothing further from reality. Precisely, respect for the freedom of religion and conscience of individuals requires that public representatives be absolutely and exquisitely neutral, because precisely one of the indispensable legs of religious freedom is the neutrality of public authorities. The more neutral a public power is, the greater space of freedom for citizens. The less neutral a political power, then, space is reduced. I don't know if they're familiar with the concept of institutional violence. Well, it also happens in this matter. Tradition, appeal to tradition and cultural heritage. Of course, we are all aware that our festivities come, have a religious origin. No one... and we're not going to fight it, because it doesn't have a big significance either. We cannot deny our culture and tradition. But, careful, careful to appeal acritically to tradition to justify... or to prevent any change, because we can stay anywhere. He says there are no privileges in this way, in the chosen formula. Well, I think there is a privilege at the time when you identify a public office with a particular religion. A particular religion is being favoured when such identification takes place. In any case, I would like to use my last seconds to refer to what the representative of Bildu was saying. I was struck by a powerful question, and it says to me, "Ez da lehentasunezkoa." Laikotasuna aldarrikatzen du, bathe ez da lehentasunezkoa. Because it's not a matter of eating. It is very surprising that precisely Bildu is saying that a subject is not a priority because it has nothing to do with eating matters. And then he says that he proclaims laity, and proclaims three other points, among which he says that the law ought to change, or that the law ought to be accepted, concerning the religious liberty. But religious freedom has organic subservience of law in the Constitution. It's not up to us to accept this legislation. So that's the wrong thing for this proposition, it doesn't make any sense. The other two did, and, because they have both, we made an effort to make our own transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u41	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u42	And yet you said no. How then can we understand how to proclaim laity, the content which was to be accepted by us, to insert into ours, and yet to say no to this proposition? There is only one way to understand this refusal, and it is to refuse, that public representatives can actually introduce their religious belief into their political undertakings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u43	Thank you, madam. EHGG rep. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u44	Thanks again, ma'am. Onartu behar dut was wearing a napkin. We talked about the Middle East, the Dalai Lama, the bishop, garlic, onions... I am going to take the original initiative and I am going to read the title, which is supposed to capture the spirit of the debate, which says: "Formula for the taking of possession of the lehendakari in the House of Assembly of Gernika". And I believe that this deviation from the debate has been absolutely intentional, because, surely, the GNP has run out of time. It no longer corresponds, it is a bit outdated, and then it was intended to take the debate where it was concerned, even though at some point some spokespersons have returned to the initial path of GNP. Our first point of view does not directly refer to the organic law. De Beho Within our competence, because Mr Atutxa was also wondering where he might have a gap, where we could work, right? Well, I'm going to give you an example, because they talked about the cult bill, that the last legislature ended without being able to discuss it. Well, there, in that bill, there were some preceptive reports that, precisely, spoke in this regard. That could be a way. Bizikidetza eta Giza Eskubideen Plana, be batarako; lunzoruari eta hirigintzari buruzkoa, kultu-lekuak arautzeko, be batarako; toki-administratoren rationalizazizio eta iraunkortasunari buruzkoa; Berdintasun Legea... Leku asko daude guk posestzen duguna kokatzeko. I, in conclusion, the parliamentarians who know me – or those who have dealt with me, at least – in this House know that I do not like to go out to this rostrum to tell what is done in the corridors or in the emails, and I am not going to do it. I am sure, Mrs Gorrotxategi, that you are going to teach me a lot about constitutional law, because you are certainly a good teacher – and I am also a good student and I am going to learn – but some lesson in parliamentary courtesy I can give you. And there I'm gonna stay, and I could say a lot more. And that "we only present things to eat" is a last name that you have put it on, and that I have never said at any time. As Mr Barrio has also mentioned this law of worship – Mr Atutxa too; we already know that it is on the government's agenda – but, well, I take this opportunity to announce to you that if, at some point, you ask for the point vote, we will have no problem in accepting it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. The Mist team representative. Mrs Martínnez, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u46	I'll be very brief. From Vox, what we believe is that Mrs Gorrotxategi's proposal, with regard to the lehendakari juror, is nothing more than a matter of premeditatingly attacking the majority confession of Euskadi and the rest of Spain, which is the Catholic one. On the other hand, I would like to remind you of the improbations of the councilwoman of Madrid, Rita Maestra, during her assault on a chapel: "You will burn like in the 36". An example of hatred and closure, incompatible, by the way, with article 10 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u47	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. From there. Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u48	Yeah. Thank you, President. With your permission, from the seat. Very briefly, Mrs Gorrotxategi. As I have tried to explain in my speech, we are full, surrounded by religious connotations that permeate our entire civil life, with normality, and we are surrounded. And I think that's what we have to assume. You cannot say that the religious is incompatible with the neutral. No, no, It can't be. You can't say that, because the neutral, politically, is one thing, and within that neutrality, you can perfectly play the religious factor and convictions, the feeling of people. Look, there are religions that, at the height of neutrality, promote love for all men and women, for all; not for those of my neighbourhood, not for those of my people or for those of my nation; no, no, for all. More neutrality than that is hard to see. And a third question that is very important, which is more important than it seems, above all, in somewhat laminating ideologies of what tradition is. Tradition is fundamental to coexistence. Tradition is fundamental to coexistence, as is the law, and, above all, in societies like ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u49	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr Price mustn't speak. So, Eubertarians. Mr. Cuckoo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u50	Yes, thank you, ma'am. The Princess of Hatred, she will like much less, but the religious event is a reality in our society, more and more plural, but we think it would be imprudence to deny or to abandon her existence. It is necessary to guarantee all our rights, to create relations and associations, as I have already told you in my first intervention. That is what either we, or the Government ought to do in this respect: that these spheres should be formed to speak to each other, to know each other. As much as we strive, Mrs Gorrotxategi, traditions, beliefs don't change to a newsletter coup, to an official newsletter coup. It is one of the few issues where the official newsletter has a very, very limited capacity for change. We are convinced and convinced that this Government will continue to work for a positive management of religious diversity in our Autonomous Community, and that it will do so under a clear maxim: to protect the rights of all, of all, of believers and of non-believers. That is the way, in our view, to create coexistence in this area too in our society. It is a challenge, and it is a challenge that obviously has many edges, many. And, surely, to overcome it, then, it is not enough to operate with exclusive schemes or, even with our own ideological traditions, which – let us not forget – respond to a reality of the twentieth century, and, now, what we have to be working and coping with is a coexistence in the twenty-first century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u51	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote together with the original text of the PodemosIU team, the original text of the like proposal. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 65; the votes are 75; the supporters are 6; the opponents are 69; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u52	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. You can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 65; the votes are 75; the supporters are 21; the contrary is 48; the abstainments are 6.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u53	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Third point in theme list: "Provide the equivalent of the parlamental team proposal on the quick discovery of the virus strategy of PCR. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Ubera, the representative of the EHG, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u54	Good morning, everybody. Two weeks ago, we discussed right here to face the virus, and to stop the network transmission about the teams that are keys to it: First attention, trackers, epidemicologists, lab technicians... To-day we shall discuss the other trunk, which is the essential key, the other trunk which is indispensable in this strategy: I mean, the PCR, the testeo strategy... Because it's not enough for a test to do it or for a PCR to do it. It takes a whole strategy, it takes a whole design, a whole design, with evolutionary tracking, clinical translations, care, when they're done, how we place them in time, how we can act with collective physiques. For all of us know that testes give us a fixed photograph; therefore it is important to establish it in time, to know the conduct of the virus, and to have a dynamic photograph. We know that there are different strategies in the world, different opinions. But in the opinion of our team and of our team's experts, it's essential, it's determinant, it's the key. And there are two foundations on which the strategy is placed in one direction or another. It's an opportunity to go in search of the virus, which requires digging into the asymptomatic area and working. And that helps to get ahead of the virus. It's the other strategy, it's the other option that starts from symptoms. It's more defensive, it doesn't help so much to prevent the virus. They're both permitted, but the results are different. And it is also a matter of mission, as well as of means which tend to prevent it; for if we invest it in prevention, we shall then save it in hospitals more complex, more expensive expenses, and not only that: many misfortunes, many deaths could be avoided. Seeing that we can be at this moment in the stability and descent of the second wave, it may be a pretty chance to act with ambition and design a whole strategy beyond the Osacists, with the collective minds of this country, with the university, with the university, with the institutions of inquiry. This will help to regain the quality of his normal activity, which he now has rejected, and which will help him to get his head out of the state of emergency with Osar. But this requires a change of the premises, that is, the member must not take upon himself the whole of the testaetic strategy, the whole management, and the whole course. The work may be distributed, but, of course, that requires a fragment of mentality, a retreat of corporativism, a withdrawal of the scales. This kind of strategy is used in Europe; so have several experts here, who can have shades. For example, if we were to know what I'm talking about, we could have four fields or four columns of work wrapped up in a nightclub. Osacration can be taken care of by a column, the symptoms that are to come to the hospital, to those who have to be ingreed, to those who have to make a diagnosis by PCR. Another set of works may be the drilling in the letters, seals, retreats, or professions of preference. And that's BRTA, the research centers. They can take care of aldundia. The third set of jobs can be tracking, tracking, teleological watch, picking up data, handling data. And this, with the direction of public health, Eustat, Gaiet, and other institutions. And there may be a fourth set that can be taken care of clinical validations, reforming protocols, investigations, examinations... for they are very important to know better about generation, and to know the circumstances of their development. And that, for instance, with the Medical Department and its coordination, Biof, some colleges, EHU... They can handle it. A business division, a neighborhood, and a member of Osa as well... And besides, a chance to get rid of Osarides in his usual way of doing so. But what I said was: This demands a change of mentality, a corporatism, a breach of the tenificism, which is understood as intrusism, and that there are even such economic interests as these, namely, hutum: That they're guards, they're shopping... Well, then, there's cracks, putting a red line on it. He insists also that Madrid cease to follow, because, look: so far, in the course of the course of PCR and test, we've just done Madrid a routine. In the new plan of life, in the first place, there were some extra measures recorded, and they haven't been completed. And now it's the second plan of New Life that has been mentioned by the copy-pega, the copy-pega, the Secretary of Madrid. Then I'll go deep into it. What happened in the entire course? Look, we were told at first that it was impossible to identify asympmatics. Even then it was not true, and time has shown that the asythmatics can be identified and identified. Then we were told that we were waiting for some quick test to arrive from Madrid, and the tests arrived, but then they weren't reliable, but we were told: "Don't worry about it, because the producer PCRs in our labs are so reliable that we can do it every day between 6,000 and 8.000." But they didn't. The Pandemonia hint was made 1,500 PCR. Then, EHU and several of the research centers, the Charles III approved, were ready to work, and the Ministry said no, in its regulation, and, last of all, in the last bulletin of October, that it was enough for Charles III to give it. On April 23rd, there was a quantum leap, and from that time on, we started moving around the number of PCRs every day around 4,000 and 7000. May-bread, May-bread, and still no examination of all the workers of the Osar. Por cyto He arrived June, and with his elderly men he had not yet tried the workmen who worked at home and at home. With the first descaled start, photographing and testing are more important than ever, no steps were taken to identify asythmatics; no steps were taken. Only when he went to the hospital, a little opportunity spread in the Diagnostic test. Then it's true that, at the beginning of July, there was a little opening in the Ordizian and a couple of villages, but there was the tap. On May 4th, Mr. Urkullu presented our new plan of life in this very room. If you read the page 13 about the testurgic testies, it's obvious that the witness surgeon has not been filled. We don't know why it didn't work out. And now you come with another plan, and we don't know if this plan is shared, if it's agreed with whom, because I'll give you two facts. On that plan, you're always talking about consent, common strategy... Who? Who? The government didn't send us the plan. The journalists had more than parlamentary groups. We had to ask the Health Department for it. The Health Department sent us to the presidency. Comets. On the other hand, in this plan, it literally says that the New Life plan, the second, won't reach the health strategy. Where's the health strategy? Where is he? We'd like to know. And I still do. We attempted from May, by several proposals sent to the Government, at least with its encycludes a maximalism, at least, the high levels of contamination, and the whole population of PCRs, which were in the town and city of seals. In August, we were told there was a lot of movement and it was impossible. Yesterday, at last, yes: Mayhem and Samson. If we had done it, you'd have told us "Welcome." We say: "We're getting lucky." And we hope there's more Axaiti and Samson. But we don't know if they're gonna be, because it's not defined in the plan. So, we're glad, one step. The health department itself approved of the order in August has not been completed. The PCR didn't do it, like my first partner said. We were just asking, because we thought that a machine in isolation and in houses might have been avoided hard, high levels of pollution, school schools, trial all of its members. They didn't. I just want to remember that on the New Live Plan, the first time, it was already established to test the workers of Public Administration and private areas. And I want to remember now that there are teachers in the first row, that the map is very old, and that we have a collective risk. What was the problem? The problem was, we didn't have a resource? The problem is, we had few trackers, we didn't raise labs, we missed resources and templates? Now, with antigenus tests, antigenus tests, you can save them. We understand that the process was more complicated with the PCR. The pressure is the same. The process is different, now it's easy. So we have a unique opportunity to penetrate into the asymptomatic area. And what I said: The Government has now come to us with the plan of the New Life II, a copy-pega, with the accounts received by the Minister Illla, with the panels. So, we'll see what this government does because I want to remember that we only have two specific proposals on the New Life plan. One: he says that the 19th and 24th of October can enter the oyctothethethetic: That they can enter the test by antigenus. And he says kiribado That's why we continue to think it's important to try out the high levels of contagion, the focus area, cities and cities. Until now, he wasn't determinant for you. Yesterday, at last, Mr. Garitano said he was recommended and determined. We're glad. We must continue to test the working members of the Sociosanitarian district, because they're not doing it systematically and systematically in a chronogram, even to the workers of essential professions, the chronogram, the program in a planning, even the professors of schools. We need a plan because it's a collective risk. And it's the key to get to the virus, maybe get to the population of the EAE. That's why we made a plan to live on the New Year's planet, which was first recorded. As they are now making a daily choice of a number of randomities in three countries, so we would gradually take a full photograph. But, of course, what it requires is to strengthen the tracker plan, the laboratory technicians, the sanitary council, to extract from Osalan Lumpen; for we have talked a great deal of Osalan. And that's the proposition we've brought for us. We've tried to move the shift from our original positions, this compartment of work which you've so much advertised in making a plan for the neighbourhood, opening the way to penetrate into the anthinthologist's circle. We are glad of last night; we hope it is not only a Chinese blow to watch the discussion of today, for we are accustomed to conduct this government by means of the mediatics and headlines. But we need efficiency, we need efficiency, because at last we're not going anywhere with media blows and headlines, and we hope it doesn't happen that way. For we often fill our mouths, I don't know, we do more PCR tests than in so many countries in the world, or even now, behind Madrid, don't I? As Madrid is, who isn't better, is he? But that doesn't prevent virus, so we don't improve it. In the end, we should focus on what we have to do to improve the comparison. And in this sense, whether we get agreement or not, we will continue to work as we have hitherto done, in the areas where we believe that it is to be improved. And this proposal, when we presented it in August, was in this sense. In the end, self-impeachments, or headlines, or I don't know who we're better than who we're talking about: he does not avoid death; he does not assures us that we shall be better cultivated in the Church. And what we need is...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u55	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u56	- The measurements. And that's all we've got.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, one to another, Podemos-IU. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u58	Good morning. Thank you. At this point on the quick strategy of virus's detection, we've signed a medium with the proposed team, with the EH Collector. And I think it's a sham, but it's a pity the parties that support the government with their beauty and their actions, in some way, ensimilitated. I am not going to repeat the diagnosis and the situation that Rebeka Ubera has explained, but I believe that the situation of severe stress and saturation is well known to everyone and, in the words of the government spokesman, of "health stress that Osakidetza is experiencing". The pandemic is not the fault of this Government, much less, but, in the unidelic state of the health system, it does seem to have some responsibility. Last week we were meeting and meeting with Satse, and they explained things far beyond the pandemic: of this deterioration of labor relations and the situation in Osakidetza, of a precariousness and an overload in the work to which health professionals are subjected... And this situation has been aggravated, as it could not be otherwise, and unfortunately, by the coronavirus. A situation that affects, in addition to occupational health, the emotional health itself and the stress of the workers of the public health system. And then another issue that repeats – not only in health, but also – is the lack of dialogue, the lack of dialogue with the department in recent years. And the great manifestation we saw a few days ago I think is faithful reflection of that statement they made. There are some of these situations – like this one, the one of dialogue – that I think are easy to start fixing. There is a new adviser; we hope that she will be actively involved. And from our group, of course, we want the success of the public health system, the success of Osakidetza, the success of this society against the virus. And we recognize – and we say it again – that there are very great difficulties in managing this issue and any mediated situation that is subject to the voracity of this virus. But there are measures that, although we recognize that management is difficult, are failing; and they are failing because of lack of resources and lack of human resources, and I believe that the Government must immediately correct these issues. As my colleague Jon Hernández said a few weeks ago, the work done by the technicians and laboratory techniques is fundamental in that sense, and, despite the large number of tests, they are done with fair means, with fair human means, I mean. And again, we must say that this is a very important matter to guard the people who guard us: the nurses, the doctors, and the laborers who work in laboratorys. And the same also happens with the trackers, whose work is fundamental to control the spread of the virus; and we do not say it from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, but as the College of Physicians itself says, who warns of the need for more trackers in our territory. And we say it again: I am not interested in being listened to by myself or listening to the parliamentary group I represent, but I would be satisfied if they listened and listened, negotiated and agreed with the professionals, who know what they are talking about so much better than I know and what my group can know. And in that sense, the first point goes in the same line. It is a situation or a proposal that we hear him theorize and we hear him preach a lot to the Basque government – not just in this legislature – which is to work as a team, auzolana, and all to one. But the first point that Mrs Rebeka Ubera proposed to them in the transaction – they are probably going to make some reference to the word cluster; change it by working group, change it by commission, change that word by any other synonym – the only thing she was proposing – therefore, I think it is quite surprising that the rejection – is that the government departments and the different research, knowledge and innovation entities of Euskadi work together to strengthen Osakidetza and strengthen the fight against the virus. I don't know what they can have against teamwork. They may have some more problem with working with professionals who tell them or who dare to promote criticism with proposals that are all that we have lived in this country, who have a sort of rule of Euskadi, because the opposition, and especially the groups that are working in research, in nursing and medicine, etc., are manifesting themselves, are criticizing and are proposing and working 24 hours. And I say the same to you with the other three points of the transaction, which, beyond the governance and governance of this crisis, are talking about rapid detection, the identification of asymptomatics and the interruption of the transmission chain. I believe that, of course, we should agree on this and extend the PCR tests; and fortunately, now that we are going to have antigen tests, so should these. And yesterday we saw the images of two points – Rebeka Ubera also made reference to them –, two points of massive screening. Welcome. But this initiative was saying – I think we're all going to congratulate ourselves on a measure like yesterday – but this initiative was talking about planning, and yesterday Mr. Garitano was talking about that, at least at the moment, no screening is planned. And this initiative – which, moreover, without even quantifying it – what I was saying to the Government, to Mrs Sagardui, is to plan this issue, and, moreover, to plan it – and I hope so – beyond what the Government itself is, and to plan it with the research entities and with all the professionals involved in this process. We're talking about expanding it and planning it. And there, I believe – in this case I speak on behalf of my group – that if effective planning is presented, we would obviously support it. And the same – and here I am going to stop for a second – is also one of the addition amendments that we had made by our group, which is part of the transaction, which is to expand the staff of trackers, laboratories and sample collection teams. It is true that right now, when antigen tests arrive, surely, the time required to reach a larger population will be shortened. But it is also true – and I say again – that the unions themselves and the College of Physicians have warned that it is necessary to have more staff – in this case, more trackers – because it is essential to get to where you are not getting to right now. Because the Bizi Berri plan talks about the systematic and periodic testing of women workers at higher risk, but it is not being done in a general way; it is being done in a timely and random way. And there are the demands and complaints of workers, especially health and education, both in the public and private spheres. And that's why we signed that transaction. That is why I think it is a shame that this Parliament will not agree again, not even on non-quantifiable objectives, but on an issue that we in this Parliament were going to place on the government's duty to plan, organize and increase personally and to agree with those who are on the ground. If we're not in that, or you're not qualified to make that deal, I don't know what collaboration you're going to be able to make with professionals outside these numbers. I think we are right now at a fundamental moment: the arrival of autumn, the seasonal flu, this second wave of the virus... And I think it is time that, in addition to the influenza vaccination campaign, which has already begun and we want to boost and we want to accompany, I believe that the increase in testing and staffing is fundamental. We will therefore, of course, support the compromise we have signed. And, well, then, hope is the last thing that is lost, and we are about to reach agreement on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u59	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again, chiefs of departments, fellow members of the legislature. We have a proposal on the rapid PCR strategy of virus detection, and we've also got agreed corrections on the table. We won't deny it at last, but I'll give you a few precise points we're talking about in our proposal. At this moment, we believe, though we have discussed the proposition, and I think that we have a great deal of points together in common with him, as far as the field of education is concerned, we think he's a little late. It is certainly not the fault of the proposition, but of the fact that the Parliament has completed it, but it is true that, in respect of education, classes are beginning, and, in this respect, to demand certain measures now required, well, it is not bad, but late. The aim, without doubt, at present, of the health authorities, of the different public administrations and, in particular, of those with competence in this field is to prevent the spread of the virus and also to prevent the transmission centres; to detect, without doubt, the asymptomatic, those people who are infected and who do not, in appearance, give symptoms of being infected and having the disease; and, therefore, to avoid the Community transmission chains and to break, as has been said here, the transmission chains. We have always defended – and we have also made this clear in the initiatives that have been discussed over the past few months in the Permanent Chamber of Parliament, because the House was dissolved by calling for the elections of the lehendakari – we have always advocated, as I said, the implementation of RCPs especially for all health personnel, for residential staff, for particularly vulnerable personnel, and also for the opportunity to carry out such tests, those RCPs, in some way, massively, and also with a criterion of stratification of the population. We have known, as has been said here, that it has been decided by the Basque Government and the Department of Health to carry out massive tests in several..., well, in the municipality of Azkoitia and in the district of Sansomendi, where the rate of infection exceeds the average of the Basque Country; Azkoitia and Sansomendi, with 292 and 225 respectively, when the average is 118. Of course, they are places where the incidence of the virus is very high per capita. We also know that, when we returned from the holiday period and classes began, the contagions increased significantly in Euskadi. The new adviser had not yet had responsibilities, since the Government had obviously not yet been formed. But it is true that that moment was especially critical. And we also called for the realization of these massive tests, which were especially linked at that time, in those municipalities where contagion began, with moments of leisure and parties and moments of leisure of young people, as it could have been in the municipalities of Ordizia, Eibar and Ermua, among others. I want to repeat, and I regret it too – and I have to say it here – that, well, no greater effort has been made on a crucial, important issue by the groups supporting the Government. We all know that they have a majority, and this is something that we will systematically see in this legislature. But I think we're talking..., and I appeal again to the words of the lehendakari: unity, agreement at critical times. I believe that there must be more gestures on the part of the groups supporting the Government and the Government itself in that direction. From the Group of the People's Party-Citizens, we also regret that we have not moved to the groups represented in Parliament, Madam Counsellor – and I believe that the parliamentary courtesy here must be maintained, that we must have it – and that we have not referred to the groups – at least this Member has not been aware of it; I believe that also here Mrs Ubera has made reference to it – the Bizi Berri II Plan, and that journalists have had access to that document before this Parliament, where we are represented as a whole of Basque citizens. I think you have new responsibilities. And I think, in that sense, then, the way of acting can also mark a way of acting the team you are going to lead. And I believe that these ways of acting – I have to say this – are not the right and proper ones in relation to the respect that we deserve from the political groups represented in this House, which we represent to Basque citizenship, and more so when continually on the part of the various members of the government, from the lehendakari to the head – the other day also Mr Ortuzar – are making appeals to dialogue, to the agreement at such crucial times, where there are very affected sectors, there are people who continue to be contagious, there are still worrying outbreaks. And this also has some consequences, as we are also seeing, that are drastic in our economy. Well, as I do not have much time left, and that said, I also hope, Madam Councillor, that we will see a change in the spirit of your relationship with the parliamentary groups. Also, and as responsible for the health area, well, we would like, apart from your appearance in Parliament, to have an opportunity to discuss these issues with you and with the department you lead, and also to have that deference with the parliamentary groups, not only with ours, of course, but with the rest of the parliamentary groups. In that regard, we have to say that, again, the amendment by the groups supporting the Government is a continuous one; it simply refers to the continued mass screening, when the news of doing those mass screenings randomly has now jumped. I believe that it is also very unambitious for the situation we are experiencing and that which we have experienced, with a significant number of dead, with a focus that has already been corroborated that entered our country, Spain, by Vitoria; that the first decisions to close schools occurred here; apart from decreeing the health emergency situation, that is, that the state of alarm was also decreed; and subsequently, also a new health emergency situation. But I also want to remember here – and I am finishing – that I, this group, the People's and Citizens' Group, therefore, hoped for some self-criticism in addressing an initiative of this magnitude. And we also have to remember – and we regret, and we hope that in the future we can learn from the mistakes – that we have had too much improvisation, too many changes in criteria, too much loneliness. I, in that sense, Madam Counsellor, and from your new responsibility, therefore, let us hope that you will be accompanied by your team, because it was very sad to see the former Counsellor, Mrs Murga, not even accompanied by the director of Osakidetza, or how she was absolutely absent from the Council for Infectious Diseases, especially created and constituted to address situations of these characteristics. He referred to changes in criteria: masks yes, masks no, masks yes... Too many bandages. Protocols that also varied, and so have the various health officials who work in the front line, in relation to their protection. These protocols varied because there were insufficient protection measures. And the situation, in that sense, has been dramatic. And we also want to make a special reminder to all health personnel, to the personnel who have worked on the front line to provide essential services. In our initiative, in our total amendment, we refer to the fact that, of course, such tests are carried out, the CRPs that are necessary, in educational establishments; that the protocols are adapted. In this regard, too, they have been somewhat lost in the educational field. We've been told the protocols are late. And finally – and I am finishing, Madam President – we believe that everything that has to do with the mechanisms for monitoring the infection, contacts and outbreaks of the virus needs to be improved. And we have introduced an issue that seems important to us, that, since they are doing a good job in the rest of the autonomous communities, also here are left issues of partisan sign aside and that, obviously, they can take advantage of the services of the armed forces, which are providing an effective service in what has to do with the team...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u61	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u62	... Trackers. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u63	Mrs Garrido, thank you. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u64	Yeah. Thank you, President. Good morning. She has already explained to Euskal Herria Bildu's proposer what her proposals were, which she proposed in relation to the strategy for the rapid detection of the virus. And, beyond the fact that today we are not facing the same situation as we were living on 28 August in Euskadi, the date on which they registered or at least signed the initiative from Euskal Herria Bildu, I believe that we must put on the table the actions that have been carried out in this House, and also by the Basque Government, and that they will surely have been decisive and important in order for the health situation to have evolved to a situation of greater control. And that is not self-congratulation; that is the principle of reality. Focusing on the PCR tests and rapid testing of the population, I find it interesting to note that already on 30 April the Permanent Chamber of the Basque Parliament adopted the agreement to urge the Government to continue to carry out as much PCR tests and rapid testing of the population as possible and to take the necessary measures to prevent the spread of the virus, as well as all those necessary for a descalation with sufficient health guarantees, in collaboration with the various public and private actors, pooling efforts and resources in a coordinated manner and under the direction of Osakidetza and the Department of Health. On 24 September, and with regard to the measures to be taken to deal with COVID, following the parliamentary debate, we approved, among other measures, to urge the Department of Health to adapt and train the teams to collect samples of PCRs, trackers, nursing assistants, health council and other personnel who are monitoring the contagions and contacts of infected persons, so that effective and adequate care can be provided. In the compromise proposal that Euskal Herria Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita have brought us, they propose the constitution of a cluster. In addition to the novelty of the proposal, because it was neither in the original initiative of Euskal Herria Bildu nor in the amendment of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, I would dismiss it as improvisation. And it seems to me that things aren't like improvising. This from doing an analysis or a diagnosis that Osakidetza is bursting and that now we are going to invent a working table to investigate with groups that could be four... Hey, and eight, and 16, and why not 14. It's just that it seems to me that sometimes we raise things... I understand good will, huh? And that, in short, this is done to contribute. But damn it! Let's not walk like headless chickens. I mean, let's put things in places where we have to put them before the expert people, where we have to put them, and let's make the development. And then we criticize the government whether or not it takes the idea. But we do not launch it through an initiative with a GNP, which was not even on its original initiative and that now, because they will have had no know what contacts and the subject will have arrived to them, now we launch it. And, come on, it is the Government and the groups that support the Government that are irresponsible and do not want to act to prevent the contagion. No, Mrs. Ubera, you don't play like that. At least the Basque Socialists are not going to play like that. The Bizi Berri II plan also has bodies, the advisory board and the technical commission, which are debroiled in two commissions, in two councils, precisely by modifying what was the Bizi Berri I plan. And they do so for greater operationality and for us all to be safer and to have greater control on the part of the experts in a technical committee, which is not closed; which, moreover, is open to the inclusion of experts in the meetings and the committee itself that are considered by the branch. Therefore, we are neither helpless nor unprotected. I'd start there. Because this from the alarm to the population to me seems to me to be too serious. And it does not mean complacency; it means self-requirement, but it also means being responsible for what we are proposing. In addition, the Government agreement proposes that, in collaboration with the health research system, the bio-health cluster and the development of the Basque business fabric, including equipment and health services, should be promoted in order to better respond to the needs of the health system. The Government agreement also sets out how to carry out research, innovation and action systems in community work, in collaborative work. With regard to the other points of that transacted amendment, which are more focused on what are actually the quick PCR and test tests, the Basque Socialists and Basque Nationalists made them a compromise proposal which goes beyond the amendment that we have recorded and which is going to be put to the vote. And, as I say, it was a proposal that went beyond that. We proposed that, on the basis of a preventive strategy agreed by the steering committee of the surveillance network, on the basis of the epidemiological situation of each moment, and also in response to what is contained in the Bizi Berri plan, massive screenings continue to be carried out in those municipalities where possible outbreaks are detected and also in educational centres where it is necessary for the detection of asymptomatic people, in order to be able to stop the chain of contagion and the spread of the virus. And we proposed to them as well... And here comes the mother of the lamb, because you are talking about three points, sir, also, Martínez Zatón, you are talking about three points in your fucked-up amendment that we proposed to agree with you. We proposed to them to continue deepening the conduct of a systematic and periodic test among the professions most exposed to the virus and to ensure the sufficiency of personnel and of the material means necessary for carrying out both PCR tests and new antigen tests. It is also proposed to ensure that trackers are sufficient to track and track the positives and their contacts in order to prevent the spread of the virus. Where's the self-congratulation? Where is he, in this proposal we made to them to negotiate? Where are the big differences and why can't one agree in that spirit that should lead us all to fight the contagion and the virus, the COVID-19? We believed that this proposal satisfied the nuclear aspects of the amendment, the original proposal by Euskal Herria Bildu, and also the nuclear aspects of its compromise proposal. We also believe that the approach we take to them is consistent with all the plans, with all the scientific-based monitoring protocols being promoted. We were not inventing anything, but we were making an offer to go beyond what was being raised in his original initiative. You know that we are at the head of conducting tests. At least until 14 September, which is when I have the data, Euskadi was at a very high level of PCR testing; therefore, we are at a good level of diagnosis. It should be pointed out that, in this of the tests, an average of 9,000 daily is made, that the expenditure is 200,000 euros and that this represents a great human, material and economic effort on the part of the Basque Government, on the part of all Basque citizens who, through our taxes, can cope with this expenditure. And I would make a special... , would consider the Bizi Berri II plan particularly relevant, because it assumes that the Basque Government's strategy is not a static strategy; this will update, adapt to the situation and the situations we are experiencing. And that Bizi Berri II plan proposes five scenarios; it proposes measures to address the different situations that are taking place; it proposes means of containment of the virus; it also proposes, as a fundamental element, to continue testing, to take advantage of the new technologies, what goes, let's say, providing what antigen tests are. And, therefore, I believe that the strategy is set, and what needs to be done is to collaborate. Pulsing more things? Yes, of course I do. This is not the Catechism, and here it is not all written; this is not the word of God. But damn it! Let's give them at least a minimum of confidence. It's just that this doesn't mean that some gentlemen who don't know what this party's about can think of making a plan and writing it on 101 sheets. It's not like that. This is because there are people who are leaving, let's say, up to almost health to make plans, to go measuring, evaluating and diagnosing how the situation is and making proposals to move forward. Because there is something that unites us all, all of us and all of us in this House, and it is stopping the virus, and it is stopping the contagions. And, for that, we are not going to save either human, material and economic efforts or means. That has been said as an active and passive person from the moment we were in confinement, from the moment the Permanent Parliament of this Parliament was operating, and we will continue to say so until we end the COVID-19. But we can't go that we're smarter than anyone. We are saying, moreover, we are using excessively thick words, talking about corporatism, economic interests, follow-up to Madrid. Hey, what's wrong with following Madrid, following Minister Illa, when they're cutting off certain times? Because I, at least, understood it. And if not, excuse me. But what I understand is that Madrid and Minister Illa were being followed. Well, look, what do you want me to say? As long as they have results that go in favor of that containment of the contagions and to stop the virus and power with this pandemic, so, listen, I'm going with Minister Illa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u66	Yeah. Thank you, head of the table. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. It has been stated that at the meeting of the Persistent Computation on May Fourth, we have discussed this subject already, and since that time Mrs. Ubera has been a few months. You've made us a present of this kind; you've brought the situation back here again, but it's been a long time, and a lot of things have changed, and a lot of things have changed. And, about the subject you brought us here today, I think, the situation has improved a great deal. Even 15 days ago, we talked about the strategy against COVID-19, and the theme that brought us here in that strategy was the theme of the PCR. and, Mrs. Ubera, they are not made for doing so, at least, I have understood you. And to discern sickness is the way to make these tests; at least, so far as we know nothing else. And in Euskadi, not only in the state, but in other countries of Europe, we may say that it is one of the countries where the PCR trial most is tested, and in a loud voice. On the 2nd of October the New World Plan II presented itself at the meeting of the LABI, where, among many other things, data is given. And the data should be given, and if we've come here to talk about PCR tests, I think you've forgotten a lot of data. For example, if we enter into comparatives, we make in the United Kingdom 259 test of the inhabitants of one thousand; in Germany, 160 such countries as we speak of in Germany, especially in Germany, in Italy, 1558, or in France, 153. Well, Euskadin, it's done for 376.84 PCR, 1,000 people. And these facts are also explained in a small table published by the Ministry of Health. Yesterday, at 10314, PCR was made in three countries. And if we compare it with other communities, we are nevertheless very much superior, and, moreover, with those who are more numerous than ourselves, at least in the community; for example, Andalucia or Madril. In Andalucia, 123 PCR 1,000 inhabitants of Madrid, 275; here's 100 more. And this is not self-centred, these are data. He said that Euskadi is at the top of the number of PCR tests carried out per 1,000 inhabitants. And we are leading not only at state level, but also at European level. On average, 9,000 PCRs have been made in one week for each day. And, well, we have a high tracking capacity, in addition, of positive cases and their contacts, because the realization of the PCRs, by itself, would not be worth much more if then we cannot track the results of those PCRs. And, besides, many asymptomatics are detected in these PCRs, and, really, that's the hard part and what brings value. And many experts estimate that we are currently diagnosing over 70% of the actual cases in Euskadi, and I believe that if 30% is not diagnosed, it is an important number, but 70%, Mrs Ubera, will not deny that it is a very important number. And the situation of the pandemic is changing, and protocols must always be adapted to situations. So, when you're so busy talking about calendars and protocols and systematizing, it's very complicated, because the situation is very changing. We are constantly attending wave curvatures that lead us to make decisions, I don't say improvisedly, but it is very difficult to schedule and protocolize all that, and you know it. Because not only do I believe in the management of COVID; I believe that in all matters of life that is so. In order to see the state of the pandemia, the number of positives is also considered. The health World Organization says that if there are less than 5% of them, we could say that pandemia is in some way controlled. Europe, on the other hand, in the el Centro Europeo para Prevención y Control de Entfermedades establece ese listón e-3%. We, in the last few days, are there: 5% down to 5%. For instance, from the 10314 test yesterday, the positive has been 454: 4.4. Well, we've come down from five, but we're still on top of that three. That means we're doing the right thing, but we have to stay there and not just do the PCR, but we have to keep the results and keep going. The disease is indispensable in the smiths, we all agree together, and, well, the test, and the result of the test to control it. And all the population that is involved in it is indispensable, and, thanks to this, we may say that our medical system has suffered during all these months. During the summer, there's been some folk, and we've made thousands of PCRs, and we've managed to control those focusers. When the course has begun, and several schools have been infected, they're making a lot of PCR in many schools, and we're also getting it to control the levels of infection there. And even in their most dangerous professions they do. And further, in the New Life plan it is plain that it will continue, even with that strategy. And in the next few months, I think, the work or the extras that have produced good results must continue in this way, always improving, and doing new things. And it has been mentioned that yesterday at Azikoti or in Samson's neighbourhood they began to sift. But these are selective siftings, which are not random or allegory. There's an epidemic reason, and there's a lot of cases in Aquidin, Samson's last 14 days. And in front of that, it has been decided to do the variations on these two points. But they're not allegories, as you have often suggested. Where does a allegory lead us? How many days do the results we get from those PCRs? Four days? Are we going to do this kind of testatory thing to create bubbles? Or if we really see that there are cases of contagion in a country, and that perhaps there is no communication between them, and that we are in danger of taking them to a common contagion? Yes, we ought to go in there, and that was the decision of the Oscars: To enter there and do these selective variations, but because there is always an epidemic reason. And again there is severity and reproach. These are the main columns of the Eukong strategy on the New Life plan, and there's two main axes: To continue to do the test, as it is now, and then to keep and execute it with the measures we have hitherto taken. For we see in this second wave that we also are slowly turning round. Perhaps we have settled down to this level of the infected, and we must continue to fulfil these measures faithfully, and to recognize the infected and to take the measures. But it is true that we are receiving results, and that everything is probably not badly done, and that all this is confirmed by personal or material resources. And all this is in the halfway proposal we sent you yesterday, and I don't think it's so far from your suggestions. Madame Corcuera mentioned the Cluster. I wouldn't like to repeat some of your previous discussions with you here again, but you didn't even mention it in your original initiative, and I believe that such a theme has the reason for an enterprise which is of sufficient importance. And in the proposal of a middle course, to propose, as the first point, the composition of a Cluster, and the alliance between the several parts of the Government and the several other institutions and scholars... Do you think there's no interaction between some government departments now in front of COVID-19? That's why we're supposed to be here in another law to do it? What's on LABO's meetings? Besides, Mrs. Corcuera has also said that now, apart from the advice committee, there will be also a technical committee, and there are some members listed, but it is not closed. Do you think the decisions Hosaides here or the Medical Department are a matter of their own, or that he doesn't count here with anyone, and that he doesn't talk to anyone else? I really think it's not our way of acting this way. And I reasoned with you why we wouldn't have gotten into that deal. You didn't fit in with us either, because you didn't think it was. And, well, let's hope, if we're honest from now on, well, we'll come to an arrangement some day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Myst. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u68	Good morning again. Mayors, health advisors, presidents of autonomous governments, scientific societies of a very diverse nature... Many people and administrations and entities insist that a global problem such as COVID-19 must be solved with global approaches. This same week, 55 scientific societies have agreed on a clear and concise message, 55 scientific societies: "In health, you command, but you don't know." A clear message for all those who make decisions, and I am left with two very specific points: that it is necessary to establish national protocols, and that it is essential to define common criteria on prevention, patient management, tracking strategy and socio-health resources. As you all know, in Vox we are convinced that the spread of skills, rather than helping, has helped to complicate the management of the pandemic, with all the results that are already known to all. On this occasion, the state of autonomy, the autonomic model, has shown a fatal inefficiency. It must be recognized that, at this point, there is little discussion about the high volume of PCR being carried out in the Basque Country, and we all know that testing a lot is essential for good prevention, for good follow-up, but we have some doubts: the delay in activating the COVID radar because it was necessary to translate the application into Basque, and that the number of trackers is not the one advised by international health authorities or professional colleges. According to his data, the number of trackers in Euskadi is about 340, when it should be 400. 60 more people every day tracking positives and contacts is a lot of prevention that is not being done. On the other hand, what is happening in our schools? For starters, very diverse protocols, almost as many as educational centers. I give you a real example of a close friend, at the usual start-up meeting of the third year of the ESO. All the questions referred to the COVID: what to do with a positive in class, who to confine to and how long, who to make PCR, what happens if the positive is the teacher, how contacts are avoided in the yard, and if it makes sense to avoid such contacts if later they occur in leisure time (in the basketball, football, handball fields...). Among the parties of Government, this situation does not seem to be of great concern. They do not seem interested in realizing that plan, that common script, that model. Okay, yeah, they're committed to continuing to do a lot of tests where there's a lot of positives. What's less, isn't it? Above all, after having seen what happened in those months when they were not tested or expected. In short, Vox bets on the screenings, on the completion of the most best test, but above all on the elaboration of a plan, on a national model to follow, and not on 17 of the autonomic minimums that end up as the rosary of the aurora. We have right now the case and the terrible spectacle that is being lived these weeks in the Autonomous Community of Madrid, a misfortune for all the Madriders.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u69	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u70	Good afternoon again. Well, it's important for us to ask questions and question ourselves, to improve and examine if there are any gaps. And we think it helps to improve without entering which is faster, because no one here is smarter than anyone. And who else, or who puts the fuse... It cures no one, and leads us nowhere. Look, I'll ask you questions and ask you three questions. When things can be improved, why do we refuse to improve things-one. One more question: Can you explain, please, what is the communal strategy you receive on the New Life plan? What is it? May I explain it to you? Question three. and can you explain your health strategy to the community? Because on the New Life plan you're telling me you're not going to reach the health strategy. For us, it is essential to explain this to you, and also to explain what your common strategy is. And, as you said well, we're far from the indications of European data. But at the same time the head of the health department comes out and says there is no need for new measures. Then how can it be improved if we continue to do the same? It's true there's a small recruitation with yesterday. We hope we'll go deep in that prescription. And many mention that we have learned from the first wave, and that things have changed, and that things are not the same. I doubt it because we're seeing that the parameters are the same. And then I will give you examples, because we at least try to see where the gaps are, to examine, and to place the proposals on the table from our modesty and humility. Look, and examples, excessive deaths. You get on the new plan of life, including Navarre and EAE, tests most of all, autonomys that make PCR the most. Now, look, Navarro has won the second wave that there is no excessive death. We didn't make it. We didn't make it. We, EAE, in the first wave and the second wave, not only Navarres, but what others of the State have accomplished, have not been obtained by us. We have had too much death rate in the second wave. Why? Why was that? We need to find out so it doesn't happen next time. Because we don't have a Rasta. Another one. You said it, and you go into the bulletin for Osa, where it puts it: "Mays 15 years ago, we haven't been able to detect 30%, 30 percent of cases." Hombre Another data. If you go to the Spanish bulletins or other bulletins, they're identified by other communities where infections occur. We have 90% unidentified when 90% of the community has been identified by other communities. Why? We'll have to find out. What's wrong with it? One more example. Yesterday Giantanus fired that we have 3339 active cases, so we have 9,380 isolated. This is the 1,8 contacts for a positive case. Do you think a person has only 1,8 contacts a day? Something escapes here. Check the number of contacts in other countries for each positive case. Then there's something that's better, and we, in that sense, from the beginning of May... And that is, Madame Corcuera; we have tried, with all due respect, to make proposals, from January, January, January. And we behaved with great respect, I don't know what it was without putting forward suggestions. And we believe in the quick detection of the asymptomatics, control has always been important, and a strategy has been designed. And there, klaro, there are two levels. In a way... , and you're right: it is not the same when there are high levels of infection.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u71	Please be done, Mrs. Ubera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u72	... "And it [is] true that there are more things in Samson, that he may take other measures and take steps. That's what we're asking for. in order to improve, to give step, not merely to extinguish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together, Podemos-IU. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u74	Well, after listening to the speeches, as I have already lost hope, then we will respond to what has been said here. And we explained that it was quite simple, in our opinion, to agree on the points that were being put on the table. And then I'll say something about the proposed transaction. I believe that, Mrs Corcuera, you believed that you had come to the Madrid Assembly, because... yes, yes, or to the Congress of Deputies, better said; in Madrid, in any case. I think I should look at what proposals Euskal Herria Bildu has made since January, as they have said; what proposals we have made since Elkarrekin Podemos since January; what tone we have kept Euskal Herria Bildu and ourselves since January; and what tone and what proposals the opposition has had in the Congress of Deputies. The responsibility of our parliamentary group, before and now, is superior to doing a policy of destruction on a subject of the importance of this subject. You have said two words that at least I have not said: irresponsibility and that we are calling the alarm. Neither. Neither. What I've said is that there's strong health stress, which is what the government spokesman said yesterday, and what they say... Another great achievement of this government: the union unity of health unions, which is "until here we have arrived; if there are no more changes after the mobilization of the other day, there will be more mobilizations". That's what we said, there's a lot of stress and there's a lot of stress on Osakidetza's staff. And then, if the initiative is old, it is said to be old; if a new point is introduced that has been important since August, since the unions, since the College of Physicians and other agencies are saying that there is no collaboration or dialogue on the part of the Government, it is also not valid. So, I what... We also have to get the Basque Nationalist group and the Basque Socialist group to teach us, illustrate to the opposition groups what we can get into a GNP or what we can't. I would appreciate it, because, in addition, we would stop wasting time in some debates. And then, on the proposed amendment, if the initial proposal and our amendment are based on the fact that there is a palpable inadequacy – which the data say – in the personnel who are being assigned to the tracking, in the laboratory staff, and that..., and I say again, we do not say it, but the professionals who are doing it say it, and you say that they continue to provide – I will say it literally, so as not to be mistaken – "to continue to guarantee the sufficiency of personnel and of the material means necessary for carrying out PCR tests as antigen tests"... If the people, the people, the professionals who are doing it are saying – apart from the comparative data they say so – that it is insufficient, because obviously we will not sign something that says it is enough. But, in the proposal we were saying to you, it was even open to ensuring staff sufficiency, but what we are not going to be able to admit on our part is that we are being told that it is being guaranteed, because it is not true. That we are not like Madrid, fortunately, does not mean that we are in an idyllic situation. I therefore believe that it was a proposal; I believe that the transaction was also in that direction, and that it is a real pity for the style that is being set up in this new legislature by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u75	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mrs Corcuera, Mrs Berasaluze, of course, this group is somewhat perplexed by reference to and appeal to the opinion of the experts, when in this Autonomous Community, systematically, in the management of the first months of the pandemic crisis, when the Basque Country and specific municipalities in the Basque Country were providing and filling out the statistics of major contagions throughout Spain, and when the Advisory Council on Infectious Diseases was dispensed, as I said in my first intervention, expressly constituted for situations such as those we are living in, and replaced by a political committee and was dispensed from that Advisory Council. Man, also perplexity, Mrs Corcuera, when we are meeting this week...; not surprising, because, with the form of action of the Government of Spain, few things cause surprise to the citizens, but when the National Security Council already warns the Government of Spain before the 8-M of the situation and where the possible outbreaks may be, and certain mass concentrations and certain manifestations were authorized, certain concentrations that could have prevented many deaths and many people infected... And that is the case, and this has been published, and this has not been denied, and this is also being the subject of interventions and initiatives in the Basque Parliament. I mean, if you think this is not the case, then you want to fight the media, which are the ones who provide this information, which, as I say, has not been denied. This not only causes perplexity, but also blushes at the citizens as a whole. Of course, they say self-congratulation; man, I would recommend that you change some self-congratulation for some self-requirement, and that you take care of the interlocution, that interlocution that you are continually appealing to, different spokesmen of this government formed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, and that you strive to reach agreements, those agreements that you are appealing to in each of your interventions. Look, you here today will have the courage and weight of the votes to take your amendments in full – because you are obviously no longer compromise amendments – forward, with the approval of the votes of the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. But, no doubt, in those... – which are no longer agreements, because I say that they approve their own full amendments tabled to the various initiatives – that they think that in these initiatives – at least those that this Member has been fortunate enough to bring to this plenary – relevant, as they are concrete measures for the fight against COVID and the situation of residential centres, you have made little effort to reach an agreement and a consensus, and you leave an important part of the citizenry outside of those agreements and consensuss. And, simply, its full amendments are continuity: "we urge the Basque Government to continue", "we urge the Basque Government to continue" in whatever it is. Where's the self-criticism? Where's the reflection? Where's...? It is that no contribution we have been able to make by the opposition groups in this House, but none. And I believe that, among all the points that we take up by the different groups represented in this House in our amendments – which, moreover, I believe we are spokespersons, which we have already been in this House for a while, which we know the issues, which we are concerned about being with the agents and sectors concerned – some of whom I believe could gather and strive a little bit more. And finally, I'm going to give you some advice. With regard to the number of trackers, then, man, I will give you advice; I know you will not take it into account, but do not spare resources, do not spare resources, as happened to you in the first months, in which, of course, you rejected the invaluable help of the Military Emergency Unit. Do not spare the help of the Armed Forces, which, moreover, in this case – Mr Erkoreka is here as vice-lehendakari – the Basque administration does not bear any costs. I think that we are not in a scenario to save aid that, above all, can be very valuable and the Basque administration do not cost anything, and to have to put extra money when we can have the experience of trained teams and that can bring a lot of value in the detection of this virus, in preventing contagion and in preventing deaths.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u77	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u78	Yeah. Thank you, President. I don't know if to tell Mr. Martinez Zatón, by the tone... It's just that I get rid of it; every time I take off my mask, the truth is that one comes up, but let's see. Mrs. Ubera said "why, why, why, why?". Look, even top experts in this field sometimes say "we don't know." I recommend the street show with Fernando Simon, because I think it's... Sometimes you say why and you have answers. And, as far as research is concerned, you cannot say that there is no investigation, that the Government is out of all scope in research, that it is not betting on innovation, because it is not true; because, moreover, it is in the government program and it is in the government agreement. So, Mrs. Ubera, it's being investigated, yes. Another thing is that you come here with a novelty, and it's that of the cluster. And the truth is, when you pose the cluster, you have to say that, man, it's not because of the palette itself, but it's because you pose it in an improvised way, without taking absolutely into account making any approach or development, or how you intend to do it, nor in how long, nor for what, nor how much is the validity... That is, you come here and put in a compromise amendment "let's make a cluster". Hey, and so wide. And so it can't be, or at least I don't think it can be. Another thing is that you consider it the right thing to do. I don't think so. I don't think so. If we really want to achieve goals, get rid of this pandemic, get rid of the contagions, we can't just improvise for life. We can come up with serious approaches and make mistakes, of course, of course we will, but we cannot go from good to good, without having taken it into account in its first initiative. Hey, and we threw it. And now, the challenge for the groups that support the Government. Well, no. I didn't deny him... I have not said that they acted with disrespect; no, no, no, at all. I regard you as a respectful person; what I tell you is that it seems to me that you are improvising, in this case. Just that, no disrespect. There was talk that, well, I've been calling it irresponsible, the alarm... No, no. What has been said here is that this government acts on the basis of a media coup and that Azkoitia has been invented, and the issue of the area is in Vitoria-Gasteiz, because today we had a debate in plenary. Hey, that's what you said. So, of course, neither this Government acts with that irresponsibility nor the groups that we support the Government are willing to assume that irresponsibility, because, frankly, to think that it mobilizes an entire population of a locality and an entire population of an area of Vitoria with so many thousands of people to say that this is a media coup, it seems to me that, if it were not for the situation to be so serious, it would really be to put you in the Guinness of bad jokes. Mr Martínez Zatón, it is not about me wanting to impose on you what you have to do, what proposals you have to make in order to be able to negotiate with the government. No, no. Here's one learned. This is not about training. And you have to come to learn. And you know perfectly well that, apart from your strategy of going against the Basque Government and going against the groups that support the Government, the only way you have is that, if we put three points that cover four of your own, you cling to the first one to say "no, no, it is that these groups do not want to negotiate". Because the proposals we made to them in that negotiating compromise proposal went beyond what we are going to vote on today, went beyond, and, moreover, it was a compendium of what you were proposing. Don't you want to see it? It's his strategy, they're in his legitimate right, but don't come and say after that we go with the roller, we don't propose alternatives, because the alternatives are very clear exposed. And, Mrs. Garrido, let's see, you change the medium of reading communication, because, really, the 8-M conspiracy theory, the issue of the manifestation of Women's Day has passed; it has been even judged. Really, update the data, because that doesn't exist anymore. Now, if you go on with your own, saying "I'm going to read what I'm interested in," then listen to yourself. But it's going to take every bag... That I don't want to, go that way, really. Because we are talking about something very serious, and that is absolutely out of any discussion, out of any discussion. I encourage opposition groups... And, Mrs Ubera, as I think we are going to see in many more initiatives, I hope that we can reach an agreement, because I believe that, indeed, when government initiatives and actions can be developed, your proposals will surely be able to give a higher level and will be able to go a little further, and the government groups will also be happy to be able to negotiate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u80	Mrs. Ubera, I appreciate the tone you used on your second round. Today, the agreement has not been possible for us in so many things that we are still far away; but, well, let us hope that in a matter of this kind there will be other results from now on and between us. We even argued 15 days ago, you put a question on the second round. Even today, you've asked some questions. "Why refuse to improve things? "You asked us. I think we don't refuse to improve things. And there's a strategy. The other thing is that you don't like your strategy. And, well, that's what we're for. I think that's the point. And we'll see. You know, it's a dance, it's fun, it's known. We'd like to meet yours, too. We're always on that model bump. I don't know if yours is an imaginary pattern or you really have anything to offer, but we'd like to know them and work there. Mr Martinez and Mrs Garrido, the truth is that your first interventions have been an absolute bummer. I don't know if you didn't know we were here to talk about PCR, but I haven't heard from either of you any proposals on how we can improve the COVID detection strategy in Euskadi. They've talked about a lot of issues, but what we've been discussing today I haven't had... Come on, at least, I don't know, I missed it anyway, but I haven't heard any proposals. You, Mr Martínez, have just mentioned the compromise amendment that you have reached with Bildu, but little more I have heard from Elkarrekin We can as a proposal to improve the detection and tracing of positive cases of COVID. And, Mrs. Garrido, the same to you: it was an intervention... I do not know if it has taken him a long time to prepare the first point of today's plenary and this has brought him so, a little more with hilvanes, but the truth is that proposals, none. I have only heard him offer the Army again, and I can tell you, as spokesman for the Nationalist Group, that we do not need the Spanish Army to carry forward the anti-COVID strategy in Euskadi. Y, well, I think that at the end we have clearly discovered our weakness and weakness. We're in a counter-tradictory management. So many voices say that one thing must be done, another must be done. Even experts and scientists don't agree. And I think that in such a situation as this, the alliance and collaboration are more important than ever, and that the use of such a serious matter for political discussion does us no good at all. It is only to be seen how they struggle for the last few weeks with the serious situation in Madrid, and how restless they are in the community. And I think he doesn't do anyone any favors, and besides, he doesn't help anybody. I think, then, that we all are of the greatest age; that we have a capacity to determine where we want to be, and afterwards we must answer for our actions and their consequences. And it is not only that we are to demand or always to demand it from others, but that it is well to ask ourselves what we could give ourselves in this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Mist must not speak. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and the middle-direction that Podemos-IU signed together. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 65; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 42; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 6.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u82	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudads. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 65; the votes are 75; the supporters are 7; the opponents are 62; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 6.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u83	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. You can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u84	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The same proposition as the parliamentary group of Podemos-IU united together, concerning the supposed cases of corruption which would lead to the head of the State before Juan Carlos Borboia, and to the monarchy. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Hernandez, representing the Podemos-IU team together, is yours to present and defend the engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u85	Good afternoon, congressmen. The truth is that if it did..., by setting a date, if ten years ago I had been told that in a month of August 2020 Juan Carlos de Borbón was going to flee Spain and that I, instead of celebrating it, was going to be practically asking that I should come back, so I wouldn't have believed it. But it is, because we think that, among other things, it runs away from justice. The escape of Juan Carlos de Borbón is the last episode of a succession of unacceptable acts perpetrated by members of the Royal House in recent years; acts lacking the slightest ethics, improper of persons holding responsibilities or public representation, and, in many cases, in addition, clearly criminal acts that justice has always refused to investigate by relying on a supposed immunity that has been interpreted so extensively that it has finally become impunity. The monarchy, in our view, has again shown that it is not up to the leadership of the State in which we live. Instead of acting with transparency and exemplaryness, the Emeritus King was dispatched last August with a note before leaving nothing more and nothing less than a country as exemplaryly democratic as the United Arab Emirates, a country where women are sentenced to prison for having sex outside marriage or for having been the victims of rape. Even the type of escape of Juan Carlos de Bourbon is execrable. He takes refuge in a country where, according to the BBC, Juan Carlos – and I open quotes – "has a whole atmosphere of friendships that have had to welcome him with open arms and in conditions that will be attractive to him", because nobody knows that it is a place where for him luxury will be within reach and at higher levels than in many other places, and a country – I add this – where no one escapes that both his friendships as well as the lack of press freedom or lack of political freedoms will undoubtedly protect him in his shelter. The Emeritus king ran out without giving any further explanation to a citizens who are increasingly perplexed and disgusted, while important political, economic and media forces try to build a sort of health cord to shield the monarchy and justify what, in our opinion, is already unjustifiable, more if it is possible when it occurs in the context of the very serious health and economic crisis that we are experiencing. The parties belonging to our coalition have denounced politically, and also before the courts, which have been clear criminal activities of the former head of state, facilitated – we think – by a constitutional framework or, at least, by an interpretation of it, which confuses the inviolability by acts of state with the most absolute impunity for the realization of any latrociny, all protected by the absolute lack of transparency that has allowed the unusual enrichment of Juan Carlos de Borbón, especially painful also, in our opinion, when it has occurred in parallel to the impoverishment of the people since the crisis of 2008. Juan Carlos de Borbón's escape coincided with the first investigation opened in Spain: just a few investigative actions by the Supreme Prosecutor's Office to investigate the same crimes that Swiss justice has already been investigating. These are up to seven offences related to allegedly corrupt actions and frauds against public finances. Until the Swiss courts had opened a judicial investigation, no movements had been made in Spain to give the impression that something was being investigated; rather, quite the contrary. In 2018, the lawsuit for corruption filed by the Association of Left Lawyers, the Communist Party of Spain and United Left against the King emeritus for the same facts was arbitrarily filed, precisely for the same facts that Swiss justice is now investigating. The image given by a former head of state who during his years of institutional exercise has accumulated an immense fortune is unacceptable to most people, and is unacceptable to most people in Euskadi, and I think we all know that in this Parliament. Similarly, a justice worthy of such a name should act to prevent any person from escaping its action, especially when it comes to the institution that holds the headship of the State. The actions of the Royal House show, in our opinion, that the monarchy is an anachronistic institution and incompatible with democracy. A week ago, in this very Parliament, I was planting the lehendakari that had to republish the monarchy. That – believe me – has already been tried unsuccessfully in this country, and it has been seen that it does not work, because in the end the goat throws to the mountain, as it is becoming manifest for a time to this part. The monarchy has represented and represents the guarantees that, through the succession in the head of the State, the political and economic oligarchies of Francoism were given, benefiting from a correlation of forces favorable at a difficult time for this country 40 years ago. We will be told that there are other parliamentary monarchies in Europe. But in no European country is the head of the Armed Forces removed from civilian control and electoral will by assigning it to a king. In Spain, the head of the army is the head of state, which can never be revoked or changed. There is no constitutional mechanism by which the head of the armed forces can be held accountable. An army that hierarchically does not subordinate itself to civil power, but to the only institutional office not eligible or endorsed since it was appointed by the dictator, shows an institutional reality with a manifest democratic deficit. If, moreover, that monarchy lacks the minimum ethical values that are required, puts personal profit before the common interest, transfers a shameful image to the international community and is unable to maintain the neutrality required by the Constitution itself, the conclusion, of course, is obvious to us: it has no use and, rather, it is a political and economic burden, a burden on a country that is enduring successive economic and social crises that have had a very negative impact on the living conditions of a social majority. That is why we think that the debate between monarchy and republic is already on the street and is in society. We believe that we cannot continue to deny the social debate on the model of state with arguments and justifications from another century and another political era. We, in our position, defend that citizenship has the right to decide democratically on the model of State it considers most appropriate. That is why, among other things, we support the work of various platforms in defense of a popular consultation on the state model. We believe that a democracy cannot be complete until citizenship can choose all the representative institutions, including the head of state, as we think it should be in democracy. Some – it is true – defend the legitimacy of the monarchy by its supposed stabilizing role in the transition. That role, if it existed, disappeared and lost any function of neutrality and institutional mediation by openly taking sides with the positions of one part of the citizenry vis-à-vis another on different occasions. That role, if it existed, also disappeared with the number of scandals and corruption issues in the Royal House, of which those who caused the escape of Juan Carlos de Borbón are only the last known chapter. The recognition by all citizens of the immense corruption that has long surrounded the Royal House places us in the face of unacceptable evidence in democracy: the monarchy has been and is removed from any democratic and legal control, something that does not happen with other heads of state in democratic countries. In this thesis, we say that it is obscene to continue confusing the defense of the monarchy and the Royal House with the defense of democracy, and to use the supposed role of Juan Carlos de Borbón in the transition as an argument. Democracy was brought by the people and, in particular, the working class and the social sectors that maintained the anti-Franchist resistance during the 40 years of dictatorship, and not by a family or a person who inherited the head of State as a political legacy and by decision of a dictator, regardless of the role that Juan Carlos de Borbón played or did not play. The republican option – different, but a clear majority among Basque citizens – is a matter of deep democratic beliefs, and does not rest on an animating bias towards a family or a person who holds the headship of the state. Political positions such as the one we raise today for the consideration of the Basque parliamentarians are an expression of the majority feeling of Basque society. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita has no doubt about this. And I think we all know that in this Parliament. Our initiative is for the Basque Parliament to express itself in terms that are absolutely majority in Basque society, as different surveys and surveys show. This very Sunday, a special programme issued by ETB made clear the majority rejection of Basque society by the monarchy and highlighted the coincidence of public opinion with the elements contained in our proposal not for original law and in the compromise we have reached with the only amending group, the EH Bildu group, to which we are grateful for the willingness to negotiate. Elements of transparency, justice and censorship of blood privileges; this is the view of most Basque society. And that is what we propose to the Basque Parliament. If our initiative did not succeed, each parliamentary group, each political party represented in this House will know how to explain its position to Basque citizens. We think it is a faithful reflection of what our society thinks, and that is why we bring it to this institution. In conclusion, I fully understand the opposite position and the opposite vote of those who in this House are considered monarchical and monarchical declared and declared. I do not understand so much the position of those who, from a republican tradition, continue to believe that the possible role of Juan Carlos de Borbón in the transition is reason enough to have frozen his republicanism and to continue to defend the monarchical system sine die Therefore, I do not even question in this debate the vision that one can have of the role of Juan Carlos de Borbón in the transition. What we are saying is that, after 40 years, it is time to say that people in this too have the right to decide and that we and we are betting on a republican model; but, above all, we are betting on equality and justice. The monarchy in this country has been armored, not only through the media in public opinion, but also through the judiciary. And that's unacceptable. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u86	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know about you, but I wanted to be a princess when I was a child, and I must confess it was so, but as the reason came, I gave up my fantasy. Luckily my dreams took a different course. Even the young men of this day want no longer to be Princes of Courtesy, Anactoric, expensive, sexist, caspulous, and ridiculous. The young people today, as the local people would say, have other fantasies in their lives. And this I say in a universal, universal plane, because if we bring the subject of monarchy to the Basque People, it is still much clearer. For as if it were a curse from heaven, under the Bourbons of Spain, we are subject to them. That was the last gift that the dictator Franco left before he died, in order to perpetuate his regime. Juan the Borboic Charles established his heir, head of the State, a rabbit drawn from the joke. And that's not what the Basque People are told by Collect. This same week, President of Fundación Francisco Franco, Mr. Chicgure, has spoken literally: "Acaso no es la monarquía worka de Franco? "I don't know. And he adds: "Si no hubiera sido por Franco, no estaría vuestra majorstad en el trono." And, yes, he's right; he was. The men of the 78 regime obeyed, and, to the best of them all, apparently without consulting anyone, the Constitution's packño of the Constitution. It has also been reported that he saved Spain 23-F. And what a peasant, too! Supercamper, as in which it would be – I believe – one of his last visits, or official visits, here to Gasteiz. How natural, how natural it turned out when he greeted us like this! We said, "Jo, if this is..." Even with his good education, he's like people, he's like people. That's what the Bourbons, natural, are like, "Why don't you shut up?". But here, the Borboics are not welcome. They're not welcome. As a citizen of Basques, we cannot accept them because they represent a state that is not ours. We can't accept them because they're connected from the first day to the franchises that became democrat from morning till night. We cannot accept them because they are connected with the sewers of the state which has been persecuted by the Basques. We can't accept them because they don't accept our decision. We can't accept them either politically or symbolically. That's not our king. But that's not enough. What the royal family of Spain is! The family you're so hotly defending here. They have spent years in obscure business using the crown: A whore, a son-in-law, and a brother-in-law in prison, the Nóos case, the A VEA in Mecca, the commissions everywhere, the charges, the taxies, the taxations of corruption, the crime of theft, the prosecution... Yes, that's a good Spanish thing! The Spanish flag here, on the breast, and, in pockets, hidden the flags of Switzerland and Seychelles. And then, Villarejo, Coronna, the Boutswan elephant, the abdication... An argument for a cheap soap opera. And it's remarkable that all these years there have been no President of Spain who'd questioned that. On the contrary, there has been a secret state condition to cover everything. And now, when John Charles's works are no longer covered, and Philip's name begins to appear, the treaty again. Why did the Spanish Government cover Juan Carlos's escape? What had he negotiated with the royal family, to set the king's golden bridge to celebrate? Why have all governments, PP, or socialists, been so faithful to monarchy? Why, if it is a corrupt monarchy? And now they seek to justify monarchy with the new king. You sacrifice your father to your son. Daddy's a quintessence. And no one can believe that Philip VI didn't know anything about family business? He doesn't know anything, even though he's the benefit of these businesses for the rest of his life? Is that credible? And in this case, being the head of the State, it is not so serious as to know it? Does he have no responsibility? Why do they cover all that up again? And in case it were little, we are seeing how this king, like his father, interferes in political matters that do not correspond to him, with ultra postulates, moreover, as we saw on October 3 with his speech, with his comments filtered through Mr Lesmes. But, well, how are we not going to want independence? How can we not want to build a Basque republic? Tell me, why not? And the solution is not to republish the monarchy, as Urkullu says, taking the idea of philosopher Daniel Innerarity, who defends that monarchies will only persist if they republish, as paradoxical as it may seem. And, as journalist Iker Armentia said on social media, what he proposes comes to be like a big Mac that doesn't get fat. But the point is, if Innerarity were a king's adviser, then perhaps it would be good advice, for it gives him a formula for his survival. However, it draws much attention that the lehendakari of this country, which mostly rejects the Spanish monarchy, is giving ideas precisely so that it will persist and can be perpetuated. Ez da ulertzen; guk geuk, behintzat, ez dugu ulertzen. President Urcullu wishes that the verb should be properly spoken of by the argument of the republic. Is that his responsibility? To invent formulas for the perpetuation of Spanish monarchy? Where and here most of the people are against monarchy? Does Mr. Urkullu think that the people of Araba, Bizkai, and Gipure want it? Is that what the EAJ militants asked for? Is that what the militants of his party asked Mr. Urkullu for? Keeping monarchy? Really? We don't want them at all. In ours, it's very clear. We want democracy in our own country. In our own case, we want a right to decide. In our own country, we defend the right which every nation without a state can create a republic. In our own country we would have an euphoric republic. Therefore all the steps of our political procedure are directed to it, and will remain. And this is why we have come to an agreement with the Podemos. We had several demands received from our corrections, but we have decided to symplify them by striking the root; for few words are required to say that we do not wish any Spanish monarchy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u89	Good morning to you all again. I am not going to overact and do not intend to transfer to public opinion a supposed monopoly of Vox in favour of the monarchy. Our model of government, headed by the king as head of state, is the heritage of all Spaniards, both left and right. This constitutional leadership has yielded the greatest stage of economic and social development in the modern history of Spain. We are the fifth economic power of the European Union, the fourteenth of the world in GDP and reference as a world investor, second in Hispano America. Our 83-year life expectancy is one of the highest in the world, according to the OECD, and we are a benchmark in quality of life. We are the second most visited country in the world. And our infant mortality is 2.7 per 1,000, while the average in the European Union is 3.4 per 1,000. In all this data something has had to see the existence of a head of state. According to the words of the president who has ruled the longest in Spain, in democratic Spain, Mr Felipe González, said: "It has been impeccable, prudent and neutral; nothing to blame". No one denies that there are many things to improve: judicial independence, unemployment, an elephant institutional structure – uncompromising, I would say – in which there are thousands of politicians left, and something that for Vox is fundamental and most urgent: to believe in our country. I am convinced that the political group that brought this proposal to Parliament does not seek to question the figure of its majesty King Juan Carlos de Borbón, but rather to use an incipient judicial investigation to question the 1978 regime. And the amending group, Bildu, heir to ETA, with all the stench of his murders, kidnappings and extortion, insults our intelligence by pretending to give us lessons in ethics to others. Certainly, all groups in this House would like to change specific aspects of the Constitution in one direction or another, but the difference is that we want to do so using the channels proposed by the Constitution itself, that is, from within, while you, Mr de Podemos, give credibility to a shameless Commissioner and a public relations and lobbyist. Those who demand more democratic participation would like to give some data. The Spanish have voted since the year 76 in four national referendums, seven of an autonomous nature, eight times to the European Parliament, 15 elections to the autonomous parliament, 11 municipal elections, 12 provincial elections and 17 intermunicipal elections. They say the monarchy has not voted, but it is not true. The Constitution was endorsed by 88.54% of voters: in Álava it was 72.4; in Gipuzkoa, 64.6; and in Bizkaia, despite the low turnout, the vote was 73%. The participation was 42.5%, a figure quite similar to that of the citizens who participated in the last autonomous elections on 12 July. So, I look at questioning legitimacy. We are facing an operation of harassment and overthrow of the head of state, which begins on October 3, 2017, the day when his majesty the king delivered a fundamental speech that guaranteed the constitutional order in front of the secessionism of Catalonia. Because, gentlemen, the Constitution is the true guarantor of our freedom.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u90	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u91	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Good. Tomorrow of obsessions. Second part of the proponent group's obsessions, by Elkarrekin Podemos. Another unproductive initiative, far from what is necessary, manipulative and distorting of reality. Another product of hatred, animosity and a rupturistic conception of our society and its recent democratic history. Now, the initiative summarized, but in any case, it has served you very well, Mr Hernández; taken advantage, taken advantage, by those who wanted to overthrow the monarchy, by those who wanted to remove the king, to overthrow the king, but with a telescopic view, taken advantage of by them. And with the important things, then, you have to be very serious and you have to raise the debates when they correspond and where they correspond – neither in an autonomous chamber that has no competence for what you claim –: the judicial sphere and the sphere of constitutional change. It is quite clear that there, well, we take advantage of the obsessions and we forget a little bit about the citizens, about their daily problems, and we talk about these issues, which are going to give citizens more problems and more discomfort, of course, vital. And besides, Mr Hernández, as the saying goes, "I sell advice and I don't have it for myself." To give lessons now to this House without looking home... to your home. Look, at the first point of your initiative, today there is a modification, or there could be a modification – or in the transaction of your initiative. Another possibility: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to withdraw the title of vice president and treats Don Pablo Iglesias as excellent." What do you think? This gentleman is indeed being investigated by the courts for false denunciation, for disclosure of secrets and for computer crimes. So we do not know what will happen, but today King Juan Carlos is not being investigated by Spanish justice nor has he fled; he can go wherever he wants and he can come back whenever he wants. So don't manipulate your situation right now. And, of course, my group does not have a favourable position, as you had intended in your initial amendment, nor is it unfavourable to court proceedings. There are the judges, and if they act, they will do so depending on the cases they identify, not because the Basque Parliament is in favour of Elkarrekin Podemos. But Mr Hernandez does make judgments, or, at least, instructs the cause of everything: corruption, frankness, machism... That is once again incredible in a parliamentary initiative. Judge investigating cases that the courts have not yet put on the table. But Mr Hernandez does; he instructs the cause and asks Parliament to support it. A performance, of course, therefore, very curious on his part. And it is therefore self-assured as a judge, even a constituent, in what it calls for in the second part of its initiative, in addition to using an autonomous parliament to do two things that cannot be done by an autonomous parliament: imputation and sentencing and changing the Constitution. Moreover, Mr Hernández, you do not assign to the king functions that the Constitution does not assign to him. Here you have put a lot of demands on you, but it is the Government that is indeed responding to some of the issues to which you have referred. King Juan Carlos has been a very important person in our democratic history; he has been a key person. In its reign, an unprecedented constitution, a democratic constitution, and 17 autonomous statutes were adopted; a coup d'état was neutralized; Spain reached its best economic and social levels; we entered the common market; our companies obtained large contracts, were internationalized and implemented throughout the world; and fought terrorism with pain and effectiveness. King Juan Carlos himself was the target of the terrorist band ETA. Yes, Mrs. Agirre, I'm sure you like it better. As your group's non-previous bill proposal, this does not apply at all. It is not to worry about citizens' problems, but to increase the discomfort that citizens have today, those concerns that citizens have today, with these sterile and inappropriate debates for a chamber of these characteristics. It can't be. It cannot be; above all, coming today from the group that comes today precisely from the group that comes. What a pleasure you are – and take advantage of others – in that mud of confrontation and grudge! All day long removing confrontation, rupture, division between Basques, between Spaniards; all day long trying to remove that policy. Look, if in the first part of your initiative you attribute these functions as investigating judge and prosecutor, in the second we become constitutive and solve through PNL the model of state. You already solve it with the fourth and fifth points of your initiative. In the fourth and fifth points, in that "Long live the Republic!", are presented as that obsessive tendency to imposition that you have. Come on, the Republic, anyway, via PNL! The commitment of the Basque Parliament to Republican values! Well, then, I do not commit myself, Mr Hernández, I do not commit myself, Mr Hernández, to the defence of republican values, even if it is voted by a majority of this plenary; I do not commit myself, no. I stand up for the values of freedom, democracy, laws and the rule of law proclaimed today in the 78th Constitution, and I will continue to do so as long as that Constitution is in force. I don't tell you that I have to be a monarch or anything; you don't tell me where I have to join, or that I have to become a republican, or that I have to defend republican values. That's not normal. I don't think that's democratic either. In addition, it would be a Bolivarian republic or something like that. I mean, it's so flat, it's coming at us! Or what republican values do we have to defend? Tell me, are you from the second republic? What values? Do I hate, cunets, religious persecution, popular courts with politicians and trade unionists, destruction of cultural and artistic heritage, harassment of non-Republicans? Are those republican values that we have known, that this society has known those we have to promote or defend? I remain – and my group – with the values of the Spanish Constitution, those that allow you to proclaim every day the "Long live the Republic!", living with republican values and doing so in freedom; with that I remain. In addition, that momentum that you also wanted Republican values within your initiative, understanding in your fifth point that you wanted to extend them to other institutions to erase the monarchical references to the municipalities... I mean, it's this other obsession. I mean, let's see, then, look, by force of removing crowns, by force of... we would charge ourselves, it would be a massacre of shields in houses, in buildings, in institutions; a massacre of artistic, historical elements... Are those the things we have to do? Or, do you notice, or remove the monarchical references to the Royal Basque Society of Friends of the Country? Do you want to impose on them how they have to work or how they have to hold? Euskaltzaindia, which is the Royal Academy of Basque Language? It also works in France. Even French republican values have not been able to remove Euskaltzaindia, which also works in France, the real expression; not even French republicanism. Or the Royal Football Society or the Royal Union? Look, you're from Irun. The Royal Union of Irun. Are we also going to remove the Royal Union? If you are very comfortable with your name, an ancient historic club delighted to be Real Union! Man, Mr. Hernandez, for the next plenary session, let's talk a little bit more... that connect a little more with the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u92	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u93	President, ladies and gentlemen. Today Mr Hernández proposes to us an initiative with three issues: to withdraw the title to the Emeritus King, to be investigated by alleged cases of corruption and to defend the republican values. To begin with, I will tell you that I am surprised by this initiative; I am surprised that you have brought it to this Parliament for what I will tell you next, and I am surprised to see so much inconsistency in you too together. As you well know, the title of King Emeritus is a title contained in a decree law which is granted, after deliberation, by the Council of Ministers, and, as I know, its political formation is based on the Council of Ministers. Does it not seem more consistent to do this proposal there and to assume what is decided there? Don't you feel represented by Pablo Iglesias, by Irene Montero, by Yolanda Díaz, by Manuel Castells or by Alberto Garzón in order to defend his political positions of this nature? Mr Hernandez, do you doubt justice? Do you think that this doubt is compatible with sharing responsibilities of governance, among which is precisely the competence of justice, which has the capacity to promote action? Mr Hernández, do you believe that if there were no republican values in Spain today, your political formation would have dared to engage in the governance of Spain? Mr Hernández, is your initiative intended to boost what you say in it or in reality what you intend to use the Basque Parliament to criticize the policy of its formation in Spain and, in particular, in the Government of Spain? This initiative does not even have the category of occurrence, because it is neither funny nor ingenious. It is unacceptable because, in an unfounded way, it places justice under suspicion, because in some of its paragraphs it uses pre-constitutional language and because it denies the evidence when, by means of a confused statement, it denies the republican values in which our society unfolds today. A party that governs Spain and wants to be influential in this Parliament cannot offer us a set of colloquial comments that are sometimes heard informally in some areas so that they become well-founded commitments here. This double game in which you participate, in which your group participates, is not a receipt. Ladies and gentlemen, the acts committed by the former Head of State, in accordance with the laws in force, are and will be subject to accountability, and, if there are indications of crime in them, they must be investigated by the justice system, which, according to its independence, will ultimately be the one to resolve. Today it can be said that the actions of the former Head of State, who are questioned as to their compliance with the law, are publicly known, are an informative reason for most media and are subjected every day to various opinions and assessments, in addition to being a task of the Office of the Prosecutor, which has been working on them. Mr Hernández, today I will do what your political leader, Mr Pablo Iglesias Turrión, has done on many occasions in recent months: talk about the Spanish Constitution. Remember him in election campaigns with the book under his arm and giving us lessons on constitutionalism. Therefore, as you will know, thanks to him and his own knowledge, article 1 of the Constitution states: "The political form of the Spanish State is the parliamentary monarchy". Therefore, we have a parliamentary monarchy recognized in a constitutional text, agreed, accepted, and not a legacy of the dictatorship's time. Article 9 of the Constitution states that public authorities are subject to the Constitution – the public authorities, their Government, of which it is a party – and I would therefore add that this concerns those who govern and those who give political support to those who govern; that is, you and us, who are the ones who are supporting that Government. The second title of the Constitution sets out in different articles how the monarchy is to function, and the tenth title sets out how constitutional reform is to be carried out as well. Mr Hernández, lastly, and with regard to defending and promoting republican values, with regard to that phrase which so much likes and is so much manipulated, to that phrase which is so often used as a bold weapon, which is so round and, not on a few occasions, as that which occupies us, so hollow, so indefinite and empty of content, I will give you some appreciation. Does democracy, freedom, respect for the law, citizen participation, the right to public health and equality, the right to public education and equality sound like you? Does the existence of social policies to correct inequalities sound familiar to you? Do you sound like gender equality, universal suffrage, the existence of public authorities or equality before the law? Do you regard these as republican values? Do you or do you not see these values in the day-to-day life of this Parliament, its laws and the other parliaments and laws in Spain? Look, there are many monarchy republics in the world: Belgium, Canada, Denmark, United Kingdom... And also two very unique: Norway and Sweden. These two countries, Norway and Sweden, appear in all international assessments of democratic quality, such as the first and third countries in the world. And, perhaps, for that reason, it would be convenient not to mix the furo and the egg. Look, I am not going to defend the Emeritus king either on the legality or on the ethics of some of his actions; let him defend them when and where appropriate. I am not even going to defend the parliamentary monarchy as a political form of the Spanish state. If I am going to defend something more important in my opinion, that of my group and that of my party: I am going to defend the constitutional pact, which was not inherited from anything or anyone; that it was dialogue, negotiation and agreement to equip a country that came out of 40 years of dictatorship, repression and denial of rights and freedoms to the contrary. I will defend the constitutional pact that served to forge a social and democratic rule of law that promotes freedom, justice, equality and political pluralism as the highest values of its legal system. A constitutional pact in which socialists and communists, conservatives, liberals, Christian democrats, democrats of conviction and democrats of convenience participated and agreed. Such a cross-cutting pact had to choose between monarchy or republic and dictatorship or democracy; it had to choose between rupture or reform; it had to choose, and chose, between agreement or confrontation. But this constitutional pact was also a great success: not to be born as something immutable, but as something living; first, to develop it, and, if necessary, to reform it. A constitutional pact that was endorsed by the citizenry and that, therefore, is not heritage of the past and indeed heritage of all, although this democracy is so open that it can also deny it, tell lies about it, profit opportunistically from it or disguise itself as a fascist and go to institutions, and it is sometimes that democracy is beautiful and uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u94	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u95	Good noon, everyone. In two words, I have come to give you a review of euphoric politics. For today we have known this proposal, but we shall know them more. There's a certain tenor that makes our politics Spanish. I mean, what we have to treat there, or what we have to discuss, comes here. Mr. Prietus has mentioned that this original proposition had a certain development, directly, from the Spanish Government, in order to remove the King's titles and the rest. And then in the second section the republic opens the doors and windows, but in the final resolution it does not appear. So, what I'm saying is... At first, when we saw the proposal, we said: "This is not the place to discuss it. This isn't the area." Klaro, we may here discuss this, and the next time, perhaps, a resolution may also be entered about Corinna, and some one may enter it. Orduan, let's see. But a principle, in our opinion, from the parliamentaries which we sit here: the Basques have no king's queen. The kings and queens of Spain are not our kings. They're not ours. Neither the king nor the queen. Neither father nor son. They were not before or after, that is to say, to-day. So, what does the Crown or the Realm have to do with this people? Well, you're consumed. Orduan, hor azaltzen den "monarkia konstitucionalen nolabaiteko batasuna salbu", allegia, "without prejudice to the unity of the constitutional monarchy", that is the basis of the so-called "Basque conflict". So, we don't have Basque kings. The relationship is configured through fora or historical rights. But let's move on. Because I believed that one of these expressions of republican values would also have some expression in the compromise amendment, but no; it is said directly that this Parliament advocates the disappearance of the monarchy. But, of course, when we go to what happened, for example, after April 14, 1931, on April 17, in particular, when the mayors of Getxo, Bermeo, Mundaka and Elorrio call the councillors to meet in Gernika, it is the Civil Guard and the Army, on behalf of the Republic, who stop that demonstration, that initiative of the mayors, first of Bizkaia and after the rest of the territories. And it is right on the road when Jose Antonio Agirre, after signing, proclaims what is the recognition of the Republic, of course, and that the principle of the right of self-determination for the Basque people should also be enshrined. And, as a result of all this, months and years later passed, but before the Civil War, more than 450 mayors moved to Madrid, the Republic, the draft Statute, and we saw what happened. And then we had a statute in the middle of the war and a government in the middle of the war. Then, if we go to the principles that enshrined the political position of municipal representation in 1931, there are two bases: the Basque republic confederated with the other Iberian republics – that is a principle: the Basque republic confederated with the other Iberian republics – and, secondly, the full sovereignty of Euskadi over itself. Combine the two principles. Of course, and that is what those who want to promote republican values do not satisfy them or agree with them at all. But those were the bases. Then, since we have no king and queen of Spain, the queens of Spain are not our royal queens, he must come from the exercise of rights, the historical rights, the fore-day road. In fact, there's a derogatoria derogatoria there. Then, that is the path that, in any case, the Crown or kings will have to explore in the relationship with the institutions of this country. Hori da bat. Eta, gero, beast, erepublikari dagokiona. Horregatik, ikusi doubtan jatorrizko proposeamena, eta, gero, azken proposeamena, hor esaten genuen "aizu, Madrilen, bozkatu dugu, we voted to express our position in favour of Juan Carlos de Borbón being investigated judicially in the Spanish State and, in his case, being prosecuted for the alleged corruption offences in which he was involved". We have also voted to set up the committee of inquiry, where appropriate; to promote the investigation. Obviously, there is a blocking majority in the Congressional Bureau of Deputies. The People's Party, Citizens' Party and the Socialist Party prevent that from having any development. So, what we don't get there, we're going to experiment and bring it here, with the idea that we're going to create an envelope, a siege of pressure on the Sanchez government. He can take the initiative, Mr Prieto recalled. Next week you can go and urge the Government of Spain to withdraw the title of king and treatment of majesty to don Juan Carlos de Borbón. This is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers. Why don't you do it there and bring it here? Therefore I proclaim again in the Basque institution that we must speak of the rest of the world as a citizen of Eroscal, but, in truth, when we speak of the future of our country, let us at least think of euccany or of euccanic nation. For this is our country; and here, I repeat, we have no king's queen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u96	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing on the answering shift, together the representative of Podemos-IU. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u97	"This is our people, and we have no king." I don't know if you're going to tell Felipe VI next time he comes to Euskadi. I don't think so. I don't think so. And, look, I understand the role that the Basque government has to play. I understand the institutional role that the Basque Government has to play. And I understand that the Basque Government could not sign an initiative like the one we have brought to this House; perfectly. And I am aware of that, moreover now that, as you have rightly said, my coalition is part of a government, part of the government of the State. But we are often reminded in this House that you are not the Basque Government; that you are parliamentary groups that support and support the Basque Government, but that you are parliamentary groups, that you are not the Basque Government. And, therefore, I don't understand. I knew the contrary position of the Socialist Party, because I know its positions. And, moreover – I said earlier – my aim has never been to throw at the Socialist Party on this issue, because I believe that in time they will move forward in openly republican positions, by a republican model in the Spanish state. But I do not understand that you are shielding yourselves on certain issues in order not to support such a simple initiative. If the initiative calls on the Government of Spain – as was our original initiative, for this Parliament to urge the Government of Spain to issue a number of questions – this is not the place; we have to go to Congress or even to the Council of Ministers. I agree: you have to go there. But they can also be urged here. But if we do that, this isn't the place. If, after the time – because this was in August – we have to negotiate in this Parliament with an amendment tabled by the EH Bildu group – which, logically, secure the sardine as we would, logically – and defend their position and what they are historically defending, that is logical and normal, but some of the things they have said are not in the initiative; that is their position, just as in the initiative does not speak of the third republic, which is the one that I defend. If the initiative is transformed into a declarative initiative, as it is finally, a declarative initiative, as an expression of what, in our opinion, is the majority opinion of Basque citizens, then it is not worth it either, because the Basque Parliament is not to do this kind of thing. Well, I've defended it many times: I think so. Here we are for specific issues, and my group brings initiatives with specific issues, and we are for more general political issues, because this is a parliament. And what better place than the Basque Parliament to express the majority feeling of Basque society also over the head of state? As much as Mr. Egibar says the Basques don't have kings. Some talk about the principle of reality. I'd like the Basques to have no kings at this time. In fact, I, who consider myself Basque and Spanish, would like neither the Basques nor the Spanish to have kings. But that's not the reality today. And we, yes, bring a debate that... Well, it seems to Mr. Barrio that they don't contribute anything to this kind of debate. I think so. And I believe that your party, on a number of other issues, also brings initiatives to this House and others with similar issues on other issues. You also take them to the House. And, in fact, he tells me not to tell him that he has to become a Republican. I haven't told anyone to become a Republican. I have asked for or brought an initiative that calls for this Parliament to position itself in the majority sense of Basque society, which is the end of the monarchy. But I don't ask any monarch to become a republican. In fact, I said in my previous speech that I fully understand the vote of those who declare themselves to be monarchical. What I do not understand is the vote of those who, from a republican tradition, continue to justify – and in their interventions I believe they have demonstrated this – continue to justify the role of the transition in continuing to defend the monarchy. I, Mr Prieto, do not question the position of the Socialist Party on the role of transition. You know perfectly well the role played by my party, the Communist Party, precisely, not just in the constitutional pact, but in accepting that there was a king. And he also knows my party's deliberations in time on that issue and our current position. What we are moving is a debate from now on, because we think that we cannot continue to justify what happened or did not happen in the transition to defend that the best model for a state can be the Republican model or the monarchic model. So, we don't understand that. And yes, we will continue to combine concrete initiatives on health, on education, on labour rights – which is something that I am very much concerned with, as you know – with political initiatives, because we have come to this Parliament to make policy. We're not technical at all; we're here to do politics. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u98	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u99	Lehenengo eta behin, many thanks to the Elkarrekin group We can, to Mr Hernández, for their willingness to reach an agreement. Mr. Prieto, if your transition, your Constitution, your monarchy are so exemplary, why do you feel that need to defend them almost in a sick way? Why are totems irreformable? In democratic states, laws, constitutions are adapting to the will and interests of citizens. Why not in this case? In less democratic authoritarian states, however, the opposite is true: the common framework is imposed. Which of those states do you identify with? Why are they afraid to ask people what they think about the model of state they want? Perhaps for the same reason why CIS has not asked about the monarchy since 2015? Signor Egibar, you say they are not our kings and queens, we have no king or queen. No, no, no, no, no, no. I agree with you, but we are under the king and queen. Or who is this man? Is he a man in Madrid? "Un señor de Madrid?" When he comes here to visit, and the Urkullu welcomes him, who is he? And yes, we must do euccal policy in the Basque institution, but it was very surprising when Urkullu showed his loyalty to the king, when he had no need, no need, no need, no need, no need of plitisies. Mr. Egibar, there are only two possibilities here: or a corrupt Spanish monarchy, or a republic of eusscals. And here one must choose; here one cannot walk in inventions: monarchical, republic republic, republic republic... I don't know. The sheriff has got into a group of experts who have just been nominated to the Foreign Office of Spain, abroad to improve the Spanish image. Well, I don't know; that is the whisperer of the Urkullus, I don't know. And this, as I said, must be chosen. It's like pregnancy: you can't be a little pregnant, or if you're, or you're not. And here, too, we must choose a republic or a monarchy. You're so fond of centrality in this case, it's not possible. You have to choose, you have to get wet, you have to decide which side you're on: or that country where Spain, with all its miseries, or euscal republic, is without royalty. You have to choose, but I don't know whether you're going to give up this one again, or even give it up again. Besides, you're in a contradiction: that we are unable to make an agreement here, and that the Basque Country never succeeds. You had the opportunity to make an agreement with them, and I think they would have been able to do so, and afterwards Baia in Navarre, for having agreed to a like motion or other such as this. But you have not even introduced correction. You've had it all week. I think they've been in touch with you, and you didn't want to make any agreement. And besides, it is this: "Ahqué desfchate! "because this is... It was a demagogue. You have tried to put your hand into the middle of the path we took, and you wanted to vote on the spot. What is this? O Sea rhodillo The Basque Country isn't complying. Collecting the Basque Country doesn't want a king, much less if they're Spanish. The Basque Country wants an Esscal Republic composed of free citizens. Our whole political procedure will go this way, and this is going on that way, honest to our ideals, honest to our thoughts, and especially to our people. I don't know if you guys are good with your militants. I don't know if you're honest with the militants who suffered Frankism. You have to think about that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. The Mist team representative. Mrs Martínnez, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u101	Well, today at the point of the day we have there are two protagonists: King Emeritus and Paul Churches. Because the harassment and overthrow that is developing Podemos against the monarchy only pretends to cover the inspiration of a Messianic man, of someone who does not hesitate to put the state in check to cover its shames, the shames that yesterday made public Judge García Castejón, who requests the imputation of the vice president for the discovery and disclosure of secrets, computer damage, false denunciation and simulation of crime. If Pablo Iglesias does not respect the rules of the game or the constitutional framework, I do not know what he is doing as vice president of the Government of Spain. Do this country a favor and resign. Does anyone in this House imagine Pablo Iglesias or Echenique as heads of state? Not us, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u102	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Barrio, representing the popular Basque Group-Ciudadnos, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u103	Gracias, president. Mr Hernández, you were right: sterile debate, for nationalists to rub their hands and speak on behalf of all Basques, as Mr Egibar has done. Mr. Egibar spoke on behalf of all the Basques. He said the Basques don't have a king. He said so himself. And then, so that you can enjoy Bildu even more, and Bildu's representative, Mrs. Agirre, throwing everything already, already everything. So that is the debate you put on the table. You throw the ball, and some end it. That is to say, in that sense, that is the sterility of the debate. And Mr. Egibar says we don't have a king. Let's see, we are the Kingdom of Spain, Mr Egibar; although you weigh, we have king, we have king. The PNV does not want king, but the PNV has king. In the same way, what would we do if the Alaves said we didn't have lehendakari? Well, yes, we have lehendakari the Alaves! Mr. Urkullu is our lehendakari. Don Felipe is your king. And you know that perfectly well. Look, Mr. Egibar, how come we don't have a king? But often codaços were given leaders of the PNV constantly in the openings of the Barakaldo Compact Steelworks, the Guggenheim Museum, the Pendant Bridge and its reforms! But often codazos! I mean, what do we mean, we don't have a king? But if everyone wanted to be in the picture with him! Of course I do, of course I do! And, moreover, you already simplify it in a very funny way: use the historical rights, the forality, the laws and vicissitudes that we have had in this country in relation to historical rights, so, to say that we do not have king, because we are not Spain. What do you mean, no? What unites us most with the Basques with Spain, which more intimately – in a more special way than other parts of Spain – are the historical rights; it is the forality, which has always been recognized by the Spanish Constitution and by the kings of Spain. That is to say, in that sense, we cannot be a little more fine here in that debate that you raise, because what essentially unites us with the institutions of Spain is those historical rights, that forality and those institutions of ours that make it intimate and that make it narrow to the Alaves, the Vizcains and the Gipuzcoans. And, Mr Hernández, you are trying to link the PNV with which parliamentary group or government, for a different vote. The lehendakari is a parliamentary group, and is the most important of the members of the Government, and is part of the parliamentary group. In other words, I assume that there is some small link between the parliamentary group and the Government; small, a small link. Look, and, in the end, you said that – because like me, I have criticized the issues that bring to this Parliament and I have told you that this is useless, that it is unproductive, that it generates chrissation, that it does not serve the citizens, that it causes them disquiet or concern, in relation to these debates that are not going anywhere – you told me that we too... No, no, Look, no. We'll introduce things you don't agree with. We put forward issues that you do not agree with. But we present them within the statutory framework, within the constitutional framework and within what the laws provide. We do not ask to say that the laws are being violated. And, of course – and this is a fundamental issue – we understand and understand very well the division of powers. We do not want the Basque Parliament to interact with justice. We do not want to say here what a prosecutor has to instruct, what a court has to instruct, what that court has to analyze, who has to be investigated and who has to be charged. No, Mr. Hernández, no. We do not; that is, we are not going to use this Parliament to say that the judges condemn Paul Churches for the crimes he was supposed to be able to commit. No, sir! We will not, because we must respect the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u104	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u105	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Hernandez, you're wrong today. And that's what hurts me. It seems to you that what hurts is that we can have debates between political groups that we have a republican inspiration. What worries me is that you have been so seriously wrong, because, moreover, you are falsifying reality to try to justify something that is absolutely unjustifiable. And that is that you are today intimately committed to the constitutional pact. Today you are ruling with that Constitution; you have formed a government with that Constitution and come here to provoke us with an absolutely sterile, useless, empty debate of content and, moreover, totally inconcrete, totally defensive; and even it is thought to say that little or no the king was the one who made the transition in Spain. Look, the king is a part of the transition in Spain – of course, it is not even the most important – and in that Spanish transition we had much to do with socialists, communists, conservatives, Christian democrats, people of the left, of the right, who we chose for a political reform, who we chose to make a political transition from dictatorship to democracy, because there were no conditions to do anything else and because we didn't want to do it, and because we came from a background that we knew very well and because we knew the horror of the war and we knew the consequences of the Civil War, and because we didn't want to reproduce this. And there was a pact between society as a whole and the political forces as a whole to make a reform approach and move from dictatorship to democracy, and that was done with the constitutional pact. Therefore, it was not done with whom Franco had proposed as king or with anyone other than democratic rules from the constituent process. And you can't fake it; you can't fake it for your own political history, for your party's political history, for the sources you've been drinking from, for the history of communism in Spain; and you can't fake it today for the role your party plays in the governance of Spain, beyond having particular political positions that, at the moment, if you want, can defend them. But, at this moment in which you are in the greatest political responsibility of this country, do you think that you are honest, that you are loyal, that it is reasonable to come to this kind of debate? Where we no longer have competences, because, well, so many times here we are discussing things that we do not have competences, but on which we are concerned, of course we are concerned in this Parliament about the political form of the state. That's not the point. The problem is that you come here to propose things that you know you have to do, in any case, your own party, along with another, in a Council of Ministers, if they were for that position. But you know that you are not in that position; you know that you have not entered the Government of Spain to invigorate it. Or is it? Because if it's not, what's this about? So, you've been wrong today, and therefore, already the first words I've dedicated to you have been "I'm very surprised in you your inconsistency", because your trajectory is not as inconsistent as the proposal you brought us here today. I don't know if it'll be the new dynamic of your group. I don't know if it will be this schizophrenia in which, well, we want to be a different thing: today we dress as a group; tomorrow we dress as the Government of Spain; today we are with the Minister of Labour, defending their positions; tomorrow we are against the constitutional pact... Well, I don't know if you want to follow in that schizophrenia. There you go. But in any case, do not come here to provoke confrontational debates and then regret that there may be confrontation between political groups which, curiously, we are jointly governing Spain. What a piece of paper you've brought here. Check it out; don't be ridiculous, which is the best I can advise you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u106	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u107	Well, I have to tell Carmelo Barri, that the union is one thing, and another is a relation based on respect. And the formula is not to deal with past matters, but with the ability to decide at every moment. That's the essence of the forum. Well, after that Mrs. Aguirre said that you are about to give birth to the Basque Republic. Well, I don't know if it is. Now, if we're waiting for the patriotic left, to give birth to the Basque Republic, we can stay, because six decades have passed to elect political and democratic roads. Then I don't know how much the republic would give birth, but what we say is that this country has a history, and that there are great powers capable of relating it to the Crown. Another thing is, it hasn't been done much. Morogator And I won't say... In this country, people have suffered a lot about franchise, and there have been other kinds of violence, and our people and your people have suffered. And that's not why I'm not going to say that I don't deserve to be the leader of the patriotic left. But I demand respect, for if that be so, there are also those who think the contrary in your world. And I talked to Jon Hernández these days. And I've seen where the problem has been. Here, in this proposition, what I've read I've read, I've told him that we've accepted it, and he'll stay in the stables. But with what you've put on the other point, you give the debate a beginning, but you don't know anything. You say "El Parlamento Vasco aboga por el fin de la monarquía del Stiado Spanish." And if you'd said, "Y apuesta por la Ça, what do you know about èn república"? No, no, no, you cut it right there. And I said: "Take these two points apart." He was ready. You weren't ready. You gave her negation. But you'd rather go out with us than... We'll put PNV back where it can be uncomfortable. That was yours. And, to tell you the truth, you gave me a lesson because when I spoke to Jon, when he made the proposal, I told him what our position would be, and I told him the things I had to say politically. But after this, since we have no correction, ye have said: "Ah! Didn't PNV introduce him? Fuck you." That's your game. I'll take the note. This is going to be a long legal rule. And you know the front shows you how to dance. And you gave the signal. I've seen what you're ready for. And if monarchy were not, and the commonwealth, it is another debate; it may be political, philosophical, or whatever it may be, but it is not brought here. Here, the wife of the gentle king. And I have spoken of it before: let's do politics here. We may even give our opinion; the themes which are here determined or reflected in other places may also be disputed; but let us bring politics into our country, and do not bring the problems of Madrid into this parliament. For, to sum up, first, monarchy, or republic... I said... I don't know, colour, rojig variation For I see many of you directly behind the standard of the republic, and do you consider what this people took in the time of a republic? Ours has three colours: white, red and green.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u108	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together with the middle-direction signed by PodemosIU and EH Collector. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 65; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 48; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-08.u109	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon.
