ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the subject list, I remind you that 32 lords and ladies have inherited the vote. First point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by Ibaña Kottaja, a member of the EH Union, was engaged to promote a proper employment. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mrs. Kotja's, to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u1	Good morning, ma'am, Congressmans, Vice President Mountain. Good morning, everyone. Covida just takes us away, physically. In this context and in this attempt to face the covida, the decisions which we take in this attempt do not fail to divert us more and more, and this also takes place with the use of the mast. The general use of the mask has been attended with severe consequences in relation to deaf persons. Maskar narrows many of the intensitys of the uditive signal and makes the reading of lips impossible. Besides, deaf people can't see our fatal expression, which makes communications very difficult, and deaf people shut up once more. Therefore, being understood to be of immense importance to the guarantee of communicative access during the period of pandemy, I have sought to bring this mask to pleno, this transparent mask, that our discussion, as much as possible, is an interesting discussion in the lives of men. Although I know that this mask is not a solution because it's not admitted to 100 percent, it's not allowed, so I'd like to remember that it should work in the homologization of these masks. On the other hand, in this legislature, both in public and public service, in all communication extended to the people, the communicative is more important than ever. It would be essential to increase the efforts of the translations of the language signs, and of the subtitles. I would like to remind you of the description of the researcher Jasone Micheltus, who came to the subject of the day: "When a necessity appears, it may begin in several different ways; that we should take the responsibility of doing it, and that we should assist one another from the value of solidarity." The Micheltus also insists that there is an equal structure, and that the neighbourhood is, as it were, the means by which each citizen may make a contribution according to his own faculties. When this idea is brought to the subject today, seeing the corrections made to the initiative, it seems that we all accept it, and that we see that it is a necessity to guarantee a social employment. We have, therefore, a need we all see in words, which almost all of us strike first. In the interpelation derived from this Motive, the Vice President of the Mountain also admitted that our team repeated more than once in this legislature: that the data belonging to the quality of employment is bad, that precity has become structural in us, that we have a problem in respect to the quality of the employment, and that it must be proper to maintain it. This admission, as from a starting-point, is not bad, and I said so before. I dare say that there will be great resistance to accept the pre-eminence which had become structural to us before. It has been trying to hide behind the rate of 10% of unemployment, which has been attempted to sell economic recovery and success, and it has been repeated that the evidence of poverty and social inequality is revealed to the evidence that uncertainty was being installed in ours, that economic recovery was living with an enormous rationality. Resistance to recognizing that the data reflect the failure of employment policies developed so far. The outcome of the eplegu-polyptics has been precocious, stability and security. The correction of the groups supported by the government, properly speaking, says: "to create an extraordinary employment must be an axis for all social, economic, political, and institutions at this stage of panic." A popular challenge, therefore, of employment of quality, and we agree with it. And now it remains to us to know, in this subject, of the chief concern of the people, that we shall make choice of the community which is so much mentioned, that we shall agree to unite together, and that each of us shall unite together with the different agents of this country which share this end, and that we shall choose to assist each other, and determine the means by which each of us can contribute to it. The initiative which was brought to the discussion today is simply to prolong the invitation to this choice. The Basque Country in the context of our lives, in front of the gravity of the state, requires a national strategy to protect our jobs, protect our workers, overturn our present pregence, and, in the presence of the great challenges we have, the ecological transition, to dignity the work, or to place in a direction more supportable to our society. A national strategy that will be useful to promote selectively promote economic activities which establish new balances between men and women and reduce environmental impacts. In short, a popular authority, even to a crisis, could be produced by the choice window and the use of our strength. And the more hopeful, the more just, must serve to create conditions for a future that can be more tolerable, and which must be. Political parties, all unions, corporations, merchants, autonomists, co-operatives, agents of social and modified economy: a broad compact between us, placed in a frame of euskal. For us, at this moment, and upon the consequences which the covida has left, it is a privilege to encourage and set out with all the social agencies which concern the political, the public, and the public organization. A collective intelligence which is in this country, not only by determining the measures of impact to prevent the pandemy, but in order to make a vast and effective transition from the cultivation of the community, which is founded on the legislative body of the community. In the face of a country's challenge of these dimensions, with what we are living with and what seems to be coming to us, it seems important to underline at this moment two aspects that are fundamental to us: firstly, the need to ensure the active involvement of key actors – understanding by key actors the outside governments, the knowledge sector, businesses, trade unions, self-employed women, the financial sector, social and solidarity economic organizations, the feminist movement, youth associations, associations of people with disabilities – in order to build collective governance that expresses the will and conviction to confront the coronavirus pandemic; secondly, the collective elaboration of a strategic agenda for the reconstruction of the economy in new terms, so that the above-mentioned is not repeated, incorporating the objective of achieving quality employment and moving towards a more just, more equal and more sustainable society. Two fundamental aspects: a common and shared objective or mission and a new direction. Hence, in our enterprises, we requested the Government to promote a popular authority for the employment of which the eyes of a short, medium, and long term are directed. We requested that this should be made to encourage and set up a course of departure, in order to receive and cultivate the thoughts, priorities, and proposals of the matter. Besides, we suggested that the labour of the power should be placed on the four axes. The former belongs to the characters and properties which the work of quality ought to be. Second, challenges: With the exception of challenges of ecological, assistive technology, and watch, in this decade, half of the public and private employees of this community are particularly reserved for retirement in the choice window. Third, new tools, and handbags, to secure the free, complete, and effective employment policy. And the fourth, economic or personal resources, especially in the window where the frame of European funds offers attention. To define a strategy between organizations, tools, and resources, which, in consequence of this collective exercise, bring forth the fundamentals and proposals, the changes of structure, the commitments to high-quality jobs, the methods of defining a strategic plan, and the introduction of it to the legislature, to debate, and compromise them with it. A method of the neighbourhood-that is what today's initiative proposes. After all, the department is taking its first step. We have seen that this method of defining this strategy is one of its goals. At least that's received during the next few days' practice. Moreover, he has shown the nobility of receiving the contributions of the agents, and now he will only perform the first steps, but as the fatest, in some measure, is not to come until February, he seems to us to be a perfectly effective function of method and course. But this method does not appear to be the support of the majority of this legislature at present. The choice is not, therefore, that of the neighbourhood, though the contrary is repeated to us. The truth is, it's getting harder and harder to understand what the conceptualization of the Auzolan is, me, me, me, Auzolan We've been paying attention to everything from the beginning of the legislation that has been said from the Enplegu Department. In the state in which we live, the importance of the employment police has been insisted upon, and has been discussed repeatedly in conversation, in broad councils, and in modification. In a certain degree, in the first instance of the legislature, we had the feeling that it was a positive starting-point which had hitherto made a full correction to the action as a group. And we know, moreover, that in all that has been said there are also elements of agreement. But at the moment we have seen a great deal of universality and little precision. And we are still far from knowing what the Government will do or can do. It is really difficult for us to recognize the language of this department, for universality still covers the proper direction of the implementation of public business policies. And today you, with your amendment, ask us to make an act of faith. We are asked to trust that this priority for quality employment is now true, although we have heard this before. They ask us to trust, although in the Berpiztu programme they repeat the error of marking as the main axis the creation of employment and marking the quality of that job as something transversal. Berpizturen emitza nagusiak identifikatzen direnean, emitza nagusien laburpena egiten denean, enpleguaren kalitari buruz bata bera ére ez dagoenenan. And we've already experienced that before, and we also know the results. They ask us to trust you, when we come to an agreement with the two groups that support the Government, precisely in this matter, in an attempt to correct the previous Employment Plan, so that it is fixed and redirected in relation to quality employment. And they didn't do it. And they ask us to trust, even though we observe speeches in which they tell us one thing and the other. Because we have heard Mrs Mendia say that it is no longer enough to create jobs, but that employment must have certain characteristics. However, on the same day, in an interview, the Lehendakari Urkullu told us that, indeed, the objective was quality employment, but that no job could be dispensed with. We have also experienced that, and we know what the results are. And it's not the same. It is not the same to encourage job creation as to encourage the creation of quality jobs. In the first case, the result is more precarious. And in the second is to return control of their lives to the workers. They ask us to trust, not knowing if they will continue to fund precariousness. And they ask us to trust, because, this time, all the key actors are going to participate and they are going to seek those broad consensuss. But we don't know much about it. And the truth is, I think that asking us this right now is a lot to ask. Unfortunately, this Government's baggage and balance sheet in this regard create many doubts for us to make an act of faith of this size. And that's why today we're not going to be able to do that act of faith; there's not going to be an agreement. That does not mean that there have not been very interesting conversations between us too. But, as St. Thomas said, "See to believe."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the populars of Euskal Group, Mr. Gil, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. The purpose of this motion is to generate quality employment, and I do not believe that there is anyone in the world who cannot share it. It seems to be a well-intentioned, important goal that directly affects the lives of citizens. We, logically, share it too. The problem comes when we ask ourselves how that goal is achieved. Some think that it should be the State, the Government, the public administration, which, at the expense of taxpayers, of all taxpayers, hires as many of them as possible in the best possible working conditions, and in this way all citizens become employers of a few privileged. I'm sure you've already recognized the approach. It is the classic and nightly Marxist approach, which was tested in places like the Soviet Union, and which today is not embraced even by the few remaining communist dictatorships in the world. But, looking at the paper, we see that others think that quality employment is generated by government demonstrations and by the creation of papers in Parliament. I really don't think this works that way. I believe that, if we are serious, we know that the government and the speeches in Parliament do not generate high-quality or low-quality jobs. That is why I do not understand very well the background of this presentation, although, as I said at the beginning, I share with the rest of humanity the objective of it. Anyway, let's get serious because the issue deserves it. Mr Proposers, you have already been told in this rostrum repeatedly, by the Government and by this and other parliamentary groups, a phrase which I believe is meridianly clear: employment is not generated by the Government. The role of the Government is to create conditions conducive to employment. Then we come to the question of the million: who generates employment and wealth in any kind of society? We've known about it for years: it's the entrepreneurs. Those who have ideas on how to meet the current needs of society, those who risk their heritage, those who are deluded by a project and sacrifice their time, their energy, their life to carry it forward. So what do we have to do in Euskadi to ensure that there is more quality employment? Of course, I repeat, I do not ask the government to make statements or to create presentations in Parliament, but to create an ecosystem in which entrepreneurs proliferate. Help them, protect them so that they can succeed and their projects can grow and generate wealth for all. And let's be calm, because they're the first ones who know that they can't do that alone, that they need to generate jobs, and of the highest quality possible, because they need to hire the best, because they need to train them, because they need to develop them, and because they need to retain them. That is why we are bringing here today an amendment to ask the Basque Government, instead of making demonstrations, to put in place a comprehensive package of measures to support entrepreneurs that will enable them to generate quality employment, including, for example, the development and implementation of a law on entrepreneurship in Euskadi that will encourage entrepreneurship and self-employment as a lever for the economic and social transformation of the Autonomous Community. Two, development and implementation of a law of second chances, so that after a business setback, and now we are seeing a few, the self-employed can rise again and let us make it easier for them to go to mediation and arbitration mechanisms to structure their debts. The competition law is an aid for businesses, but for the self-employed not so much. Third, the creation of a business angels startup program Fourthly, and we could continue up to ten, but let's leave it here, fourthly, to create a coordinated support programme, for example, also from SPRI, to facilitate the generational relief of self-employed people who intend to retire, in order to be able to transfer the business to the next generation or, in case there is no generational relief, it is possible to favour the transfer to another entrepreneur, in order to maintain the services provided and the jobs generated. That is to say, we repeat, quality employment is generated by those who always generate quality employment, entrepreneurs, and, therefore, the best we can do to ensure that our jobs are of the highest quality is to care for, encourage and support the entrepreneurs we have in the Basque Country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u4	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that there is a starting point, to which Mrs Kortajarena has referred, and that we all share that the objective in the field of employment must be precisely to create jobs and that this employment should be of quality, and I believe that we also share that objective as a cross-cutting objective, that is to say that it must be shared by all the institutions, from the municipalities to Europe, through outlaws, the Basque Government and the Government of Spain, and, as far as we as the Basque Government are concerned, that this is an objective to be developed in each and every one of the public policies of this government. And I think it's a good starting point. In fact, I think it is an ambitious starting point, because the one with which it is falling I am sure that there are those who would settle simply by creating jobs of any kind. However, in a situation like the current one, in a health crisis that is already an economic and social crisis, today we are saying that it is not worth creating any kind of employment, that the goal has to be to create decent employment and quality employment. That is why I say that it seems to me an ambitious challenge, because, when some would simply be willing to save the furniture, we say that the road is another and that the crisis cannot be an excuse to walk on roads to precariousness. In the inquiry, Mrs Kortajarena told us what quality employment was for EH Bildu. I can tell you, Mrs Kortajarena, that we can subscribe to that definition perfectly, we can subscribe to it, and, as you know, quality employment and decent work go hand in hand. The ILO defines decent work and tells us that it means access to productive employment that generates fair income, safety in the workplace, social protection of families, the best prospects for personal development and social integration, freedom for individuals to express their views, organize and participate and, of course, equal opportunities and treatment for men and women. As you know, decent work and the four pillars of the ILO work programme, which are job creation, social protection, labour rights and social dialogue, formed the basic part, the core elements of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted by the United Nations. Goal 8, specifically, tells us about promoting sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. And to me it seems very important that verb of goal eight, to promote And that calls on each and every one of us to take on that challenge as our own, and I want to say here that this Government has taken on that challenge as its own in all its dimensions and in all its competences. Vicelehendakari Idoia Mendia said so in her reply. It is true that the Government is not the main generator of employment, it is true, but it also said that Governments create the conditions for companies to generate employment and that, in addition, Governments establish the framework and guarantees for decent employment. When we approach negotiations throughout the summer the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, we both clearly set out in the government agreement, as can be seen, a clear commitment to the creation of decent employment. Our commitment, moreover, as Basque Socialists, to decent and quality employment is strong. No one can understand that it is a coincidence that, precisely, our Secretary-General, Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia, takes on the first person the challenge of leading this field within the Government. As you all know, the government plan, which has been referred to this House, envisages a number of initiatives linked precisely to that goal eight of the SDGs. In fact, on 29 September, the Government presented the foundations of the Berpiztu programme for the economic and employment recovery of Euskadi, which is part of sustainable growth and commits itself to providing responses to the three transitions to transform Euskadi: building a greener, more digital and more inclusive Euskadi. This programme, already approved this Tuesday by the Governing Council, has one priority: quality employment. A programme that has been contrasted with the social dialogue table and the social and economic actors at the socio-economic table, with municipalities and with outlaws, which is set up as an open and flexible programme and on which its evolution and implementation will be regularly contrasted. And, in the same vein, as Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia pointed out, the new employment strategy 2020-2030 is being compromised. A strategy that, based on what has been being built in recent times, which has been a great deal and has produced good results until the arrival of the pandemic, counting on socio-economic actors, will aim precisely to introduce a country vision that promotes the creation of decent employment, with decent wages, with labour rights and, moreover, from this cross-cutting area, as a cross-cutting axis of public policies of all Basque institutions. I said that it was time to come to fruition, and in the third point of our amendment, we made those determining factors which we believe should be included in the 2020-2030 employment strategy. Because I agree that, beyond making generic statements, we believe that it is time to come to fruition. And in this amendment we talk about innovation, consultation within the Social Dialogue Bureau, we talk about equality, we talk about protection of labour rights, institutional collaboration, job stability and business competitiveness, reduction of the wage gap, responsible reconciliation, teleworking, time flexibility, reduction of time, reduction of partiality, lifelong training, safety and health at work, participative business model. In fact, we could include many more things: the 12 commitments and 37 initiatives in the government programme, relating to the employment heading. As I told you at the beginning of the speech, we are reflected in the definition you made the other day of what EH Bildu considered to be quality employment and we see precisely these issues that we have contemplated. It is true that we have had discussions – which I also think have been very interesting – on the substantive issues. Where was the point that you didn't allow the deal? In the methodology. We believe that, rather than reflecting, it is time to act, and there is a clear and public commitment by this Government to decent employment, to quality employment, and a firm commitment to it, and there is a road map that has already marked this Government and to which it has committed itself. We are ready to receive inputs to the road map. But, Mrs Kortajarena, what she proposed to us today in her initiative was to change the road map. His methodology was to change the road map of that Government. On the substantive issues, if we start talking about what really has to be picked up, we will agree quite well, so I think we have points to explore. But it's not an act of faith, we're not asking for any act of faith. Allow me the evil: you ask us for an act of faith by implying that EH Bildu can change the government's road map. The other day Mrs Vice-Lehendakari told us, we are ready to receive contributions, but the government has to govern. So, it is not an act of faith, we are committed to this and I am sure that we will be able to deal with agreements throughout the legislature. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u6	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Chief bureau, congressmen, good morning to all. Quality employment or decent work. A motive urges us to consider the opposition beforehand: It's a way from controlling the government to push the government to a function. I listened to your interpelation, Mrs. Kotja's. And I see the basic ideas of his speech then, at the time of the interpellation, and today. He would tell us and tell us "we should talk quietly," and I would add "in this tone." You asked yourself a previous question: "Are we talking about the same thing when we talk about quality employment?". And he told us: for us quality employment is – and it is not an appointment is a relationship of ideas – employment without exclusion, with just and adequate conditions, with protection and vital security, with opportunities for personal development, a job that boosts and protects the participation of the worker, that seeks a fair and equitable distribution of wealth, that reduces the environmental impact. I don't think I've left any of the ideas in your definition. Well, yeah, we're talking about the same thing. We could even broaden the definition – we have, as Mr Rico said, in our amendment –: decent wages, protection of labour rights, innovation, equality, stability, training. And, besides, I understand that it's an open definition that other people can complete. I agree with your definition. Do you agree with our enlargement? I would be interested in you answering that question. In addition, he told us, "we are conditioned by the pandemic, we are conditioned by this crisis." Okay, too. And he also said to us: "The future does not seem easy with many risks to quality employment." Okay. Four of them. But from here on out, you're the one who sees differences between what the Sailburu says. You go on to talk later about intentions, objectives, commitments of the previous legislature, and give only two data in the interpretation, one very positive and one not. And he tells us, "I don't want to get mixed up in the data, but employment policy so far has been a failure." A Failure See, it's usually a usual practice in negotiations, when someone wants to make a breakthrough in search of an agreement, but they find it difficult, saying, "I don't want to get mixed up in this, in this data, in this detail, in this chapter, in this point." It removes this difficulty, at least temporarily, and tries to advance the agreement. But his practice of saying "I don't want to get involved in the data," not making any analysis, and drawing a conclusion, "weak," in my opinion, is not rigorous. Moreover, it does not help to agree; otherwise, it blocks the agreement. You act by having a previous judgment; that is called prejudice. I prefer the data to be tangled, to be honest, it's something much more rigorous. Anyway, I appreciate the tone. Faced with this lack of rigour, the Sailburu But, unlike his approach, and having good data to support himself on, he said, "We still have unfinished subjects." You didn't recognize failure, that's what you say here. "We still have unfinished subjects." And it's true. No triumphalisms, but no catastrophes. A rigorous analysis, in my opinion, realistic. And, after the analysis, a clear political approach: above differences, continue to seek agreement. Your answer: What was your answer at that time, Mrs Kortajarena? A new exercise in the doctrine of parenthesis that we cannot share. I don't understand his parenthesis doctrine. I'm gonna tell you the truth, I don't understand it. We'll share it more, see if I can understand it. I don't understand. But I'm left with the concept of doctrine. After we've examined this interference, we're now engaged in a discussion of pushing the government into motion. And what is our position in this discussion? We are running for an election with an election program. One of the priorities of this public election programme is quality employment. That electoral programme commits us to Basque citizenship. We got an election result. After the elections, we reached an agreement with the Socialist Party which also broadly reflected quality employment in its programme, as Mr Rico said. We understand that this agreement that we sign does not contradict or violate our electoral agenda, our commitment to citizenship; on the contrary, we understand that it complements it. The Socialist Party has also spoken in this regard. The government agreement materializes in the government program with more detailed commitments and initiatives. A contract with the citizenry. But we understand that this programme can be enriched with more contributions. You said, "The contributions must be collected." Well, yes, that's what you're saying. To this end, we propose a methodology: dialogue. Dialogue to participate in problems and solutions, dialogue to grow and improve, dialogue without exclusions, dialogue with the will to agree. This is a methodological issue. Today we talk about methodology, this is a debate on methodology. This is a methodological question and it is a question of methodology forward, creating from here to the future. And we too have a basic methodological approach of recognition. We are moving forward on foundations that already exist, it is the recognition of the work done previously by other people who also faced challenges like ours and who gave the best of their knowledge and their doing, people who have given us their tools and a project for the future. In the face of this methodological approach of ours, you, you pose to us a doctrine with, so far, in my view, three principles of action, and I am referring to the field of employment. Faced with our approach to contract with the citizenry, you are putting in place what I would call "the principle of fracturing the agreement", your theory of the amendment to the whole that has been taken up again today. He's already explained the saltburu. Faced with our approach of dialogue with the will of agreement, you are putting into effect the principle of action entirely or nothing – Mr Rodriguez, here I have to mention to you, as I was telling you a few days ago – without influencing it. And in view of our approach to recognizing the work of the people who preceded us, you, in this case you, Mrs Kortajarena, are setting in motion the principle of John Locke's very shallow table. Or we could also call it the principle of acting that there is nothing before we arrive. With this, Mrs Kortajarena, we already have your complete trilogy, paraphrasing you, your doctrine, Bildu's methodological doctrine in the field of employment. Nor is it such a novel doctrine. These are principles of action that we know from the past. Perhaps he does have a novelty, something that surrounds his doctrine delicately: the tone. I sincerely thank you. We believe that we must focus the future from collaboration rather than confrontation. Complicated times are coming, we are already living complicated times. It would be an asset to be able to count on their participation, with the participation of all the groups in the House, and of all the economic and social actors in the country. It is up to us all to make a greater effort; to the administrations, of course, but also to the rest of the citizenry, to the rest of the associations, to the rest of the fabric. We want to put unemployment back below 10%, we have said it over and over again, it is true. But with the same insistence we have said that we do not want any jobs, that we want decent jobs, with labour rights, with less time, with the characteristics that we have included in our amendment text. And they are not words of thick stroke, of thick brush, they are commitments that the lehendakari and this government have signed with Basque society. And these are commitments that are going to be fulfilled. You can stay in a corner again with your arms crossed or you can collaborate. We, in any case, will continue to work. We have gone through complicated times in the past, with crises and high unemployment rates, and we were able to respond. And now we're gonna do it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u8	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing on the line of uncorrected teams, Mistya, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u9	Egun on, good morning, everyone. From Vox we work for entrepreneurs, self-employed people and workers to live in an environment of well-being and complementarity. Unlike you, unlike the left, we do not start from false principles. We do not claim that all entrepreneurs are bad, nor do we believe that all workers are holy. Labour relations are a complex whole, difficult to generalize, there is everything in the Lord's vineyard. We have heard many common places, but we have also heard truths both in the interpellation of the other day and in the different exhibitions today. Much of the work that exists is indeed precarious, there are many families that do not arrive at the end of the month and food banks and the like have been overwhelmed since the beginning of the pandemic. Now, an interdepartmental table and papers to get to who? Are there not enough reports on this? Are there no unions that work and that know precisely the details of the working circumstances? Is there not a employer who rigorously exposes the reality of our companies and their problems? From Vox, we always follow the famous Ockham knife: let us not duplicate the entities without necessity. There are already organizations that study the subject. We all know what the problems are and we have solutions on the table. The task now is for Parliament, it is for politicians. Gentlemen of Bildu, offer your measures for quality employment directly. Their nationalism sometimes blinds them and attests to it their union, the LAB union, which said a few days ago that it wanted to make mandatory the use of euskera for companies of more than 50 workers. Is employment only of quality if it is Basque? There are many differences between Vox's and Bildu's proposals. You only think of the Basque workers, you exclude, you do not represent the workers; you only care about the Basque workers. And instead, we care about all the workers. We said this the other day in the Labour Committee and I repeat it again now, in the current situation: the aim is to save employment. We must take action with a certain haste. They are constantly paralleling the 2008 crisis, but the reality today is very different. We need to take steps to save today's work and to lay the foundations for promoting decent employment. On the left they always say the same thing: quality employment. But his strategy is based on taxes and more taxes. They create impossible conditions that, ultimately, in a global world, make our companies less competitive. Now it turns out that the agendas, the one they want to create, are going to save the world. They are the kings of bureaucracy, of moving everything so that nothing changes. You'll say we have to generate value-added work. And it's true, but what to do with small businesses? What do we do with the neighborhood shops? It is very difficult to ask and urge citizens not to consume in Amazon, but if they flood companies with taxes and more taxes, we will not be able to compete, there is no added value worth at this point. In trade, either you play with the same weapons or there's nothing to do. In short, since Vox we will vote no. In Vox we know that workers no longer want to toast to the sun; they want measures and they want them now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u10	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u11	Good morning, Congressmen. Ensuring that jobs in Euskadi are quality jobs is, of course, a priority issue for our coalition, for Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. For this reason, although we have a diagnosis and a programmatic proposal in this regard, worked, moreover, with different actors, especially those who represent the workers and self-employed, it seems to us that we should support the constitution of the presentation proposed today by the EH Bildu group. In order to combat the widespread precariousness and its eradication, even more so in these times of pandemic and uncertainty, it is necessary to develop measures to deal with a job precariousness that has been chronic in the working population of Euskadi and runs the risk of expanding to most of the population. For this very reason, our group registered an initiative on this issue a few weeks ago, which we will also bring to the debate, in order to try to reach agreement on some concrete actions and measures in this case. We are therefore going to support Mrs Kortajarena's initiative, because we believe that developing a presentation on the boost of quality employment in the Basque Parliament is at least to give a relevant role to an issue which, as I say, is a priority and fundamental for us. It is true that some of the things we can hear in that presentation by different agents we already know, which we have heard explained to them on many occasions, in different formats, including parliamentary appearances in this very house. But to give the centrality that gives a specific presentation to quality employment seems to us to be something more than relevant, and fits, of course, with the importance that my group wants to give to this issue, which is why we are going to support the initiative. An initiative that we also believe does not prevent or contradict the Government from starting to implement its plans, the government agreement, to which both Mr. Aiartza and Mr. Rico have referred. We will therefore support this initiative, which seems to us to be a good idea. Because, moreover, we are clear that job insecurity has increased exponentially over the last decade, especially over the female, young, immigrant population. In our environment we find work situations that are far from being like decent conditions. This same Monday, the Malen Etxea association denounced the situation of the household and care workers in the Employment and Labour Commission; women who work 24 hours a day 365 days a year practically. But precariousness runs through almost all sectors, some with more cruelty – it is true – than others, but it runs through them all, with a common feature, a predominant woman's face. If we are talking about the need to boost, to guarantee quality employment, it is because job insecurity is the norm. Women who, at a frantic pace, travel by bus mid-city on the same day to go cleaning from one office to another, because they have to comply with all the customers that the company has achieved, which, normally, has the minimum essential staff. Carriers and distributors with unlimited days, who put the tool, advance the payment of diesel or eat inevitable parking tickets if they want to finish the required task. Professionals of the hospitality that have not known an indefinite contract in life, with fragmented days to curls, which at the end represent the full day at work. Multi-category supermarket employees: the same in the box as replacing, passing the washing machine or helping to download merchandise. Operators who land through temporary work companies in a chain of manufacturing door knobs today, and who tomorrow are sucking the cold water that falls from the palletizing ball boxes. They are just a few examples, and they are not exceptional situations in Euskadi. They're also not the description of a film by filmmaker Ken Loach, even though they look alike. These are widespread and customary jobs and working conditions, also in our country. Examples which, in our view, are responsible must be said and pointed out in order to address the problem. Because job insecurity is a product of specific interests. Policies that seek to guarantee quality in jobs cannot, in our view, deny this, either deliberately or naively. This is a starting point for us. Job insecurity does not respond to accident or inevitable atmospheric phenomena. Many issues arise, but the precariousness of work, the impoverishment of the working and living conditions of the workers is responsible because it responds to specific interests of profit, capital. It is not true, it is demagogic to say that groups like ours, for example, believe that all entrepreneurs are scoundrels or that all workers are good people. That's not true. They simply respond to different interests. That's what we say, and that's what Marxism says, Mr. Gil. Marxism does not speak of all workers being public employees. And that's how we produce what we call job insecurity, as I say, does not appear by infused science. Capital-work contradiction and, beyond that, capital-life contradiction remain the maximum expression of the limitations and barbarities of the capitalist system in which our society develops. In the last decade, in a capitalist model that presents obvious symptoms of organic crisis, the ruling class has been pushing increasingly aggressive global policies to ensure a rate of profit that they must necessarily guarantee to continue to sustain the processes of wealth accumulation. We cannot ignore these dynamics when we talk about quality employment. These dynamics cause the contradictions of capital to become sharper and inequalities to widen. The offensive against the working class is an offensive in the form of a reduction in wages and salaries, an increase in working hours, a generalization of precariousness, facilitation and reduction of dismissal, attacks on collective bargaining and, ultimately, the weakening of work against capital. For decades, the changes in labour legislation have been successive, also in our country. Reforms that have gradually been liquidated rights and weakening the working class. Ensuring a model of labour relations that allows trade unions to play their role is, of course, one of the issues that must be put into practice and that are reflected in the government coalition programme in the State, which they know we are part of, and which must be implemented. First, reversing the labour reform of the People's Party, and then advancing into a workers' statute that effectively defends the working class. But, together with legislative changes, the fight for the quality of jobs goes through other employment policies in Euskadi and other economic development policies in Euskadi. In addition, we believe that, together with the creation of quality employment, we must also ensure the quality of employment that already exists. The message to those who currently have precarious jobs cannot only be that policies are going to be aimed at creating quality jobs. We must ensure that their jobs, those that already exist, are worthy, are those that are and belong to the sector that belong to: hospitality, cleaning, care and others. These jobs will always exist and must not be accepted, of course, we will not accept that they have to be precarious yes or yes. We must fight and work to eradicate job insecurity in all sectors. And that is where the Labour Inspectorate, Osalan, and the Employment Department itself of the Basque Government play a key role, but also our public administrations, all at all levels, which, in addition, hire, subcontract and award a multitude of services in often precarious sectors and therefore have a role to play in that struggle, a role that different actors have to play. That is why we are highlighting Mrs Kortajarena's initiative, because it allows many actors who have to play a role in this matter in Euskadi to play it in this Parliament at the hands of the parliamentary groups. The precariousness and loss of rights that our country has suffered in recent years obliges us to develop concrete policies with one objective: employment that is only such if it develops under truly decent conditions. We do not accept, we will never accept the slogan that is sometimes used of "better a bad job than nothing". I would like to mention some of the reflections that have been poured out here earlier. Mr Gil, you say that quality employment is generated by entrepreneurs. And I ask him: and who then generates precarious employment? It is not just a question of who generates employment, public administrations have a key role in generating quality employment. Entrepreneurs have their role in generating the quality of employment, but if we stick to the expression you have used, that entrepreneurs are exclusively those who generate quality employment, we will have to give them something we do not agree with: that it is entrepreneurs who also generate precarious employment. And we don't share that bag that they seem to use when talking about entrepreneurs, where it seems that a self-contained mason comes into the same bag as the owners of Tubacex, for example. For us, the former is a self-employed worker, the latter is an owner of an important means of production. And there's the difference.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u12	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing on the answers, Madame Kortja's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u13	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Aiartza accused me of a lack of rigour for not wanting to entangle me in the data. I really don't know if what you've done today is something like, "if I don't know, I don't remember." We in this Parliament have discussed countless times about the quality of employment and the data that were rigorously presented in this regard. We have also talked about the results of the survey of poverty and social inequalities, and we have talked about reports such as that of Foessa, and even a special report that Foessa made on the loss of the right to decent employment. We have spoken countless times, and we have put data on the table. On the other hand, some of these data are from the Basque Government's own surveys. And we've discussed them. Even at times we have reached agreements on matters such as those we are discussing today. And those agreements have not been implemented. Those agreements have not been implemented. Moreover, when the previous employment plan was presented in this Parliament, which, as with the Berpiztu programme, did not present any indicators to measure the quality of the employment to be generated, agreement was reached with the groups supporting the Government to include all these indicators and to redirect that plan in the direction of quality employment. And that wasn't done either. Which, well, I think there are some things you need to remember, because they don't seem to remember. Because, of course, quality employment or talking about quality employment does not come to this Parliament in our hands, but it is also not that the results in this area of all the wills that you have expressed to us here are for many floricultures, because precariousness is installed in our society, as the data show. Mr Hernández pointed out this in concrete realities, and I will mention a very concrete one: we have a generation of young people who have known nothing but precariousness. And here too, the objectives of the ILO have been discussed. One of the main objectives of ILO is for workers to regain control over their lives. And that is what we come to propose with initiatives such as these, which, of course, I think have little confrontational and have enough to hold hands and try to generate synergies, and also to generate confidence. But, well, everyone interprets things as best they see fit. Anyway, we're talking about public money here, and we don't have to fund anything with public money. With public money, political purposes must be obtained. And Governments do not create employment, I tell the lord of Ciudadnos. But, as has been said here, governments form conditions. And it is true that, so far as it is concerned, the prerogative of public money has been financed too, because they have not been defined to receive public money from the conditions of social employment, and not from those of action, nor from any other practice. It's an affair of credibility for me. And that's why I used to say "ver para creer." Hay coincidencias, and we can agree on certain points, yes, it's obvious. And so we have said from the very beginning. We have proposals, we have a whole program in that sense. And we have perfect integrity to expand and share this program, but in a particular direction. Besides, we feel that at the present moment we must do this with all the operators, because the moment demands it. And that's why our plan was a plan that is very close to the neighborhood. But, as I said, as St. Thomas: "Ver para creer." We'll see what the road gives. Anyway, we'll follow. We will continue on this subject, with determination and commitment, to bring in initiative and activate this popular intelligence. And it may happen that we find them sometimes on the road, and sometimes we don't, but we'll keep moving. Eta gaur esango nuke Mikel Otero nire tadekideak esaten duen gauza bat: "This government wins today, but certainly does not convince".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Well, we all agree that quality employment must be defended, promoted and protected. That seems to have become clear after the debate and it also seems that we all agree that we must pursue the job we have called precarious, non-quality employment, the job I understand is illegal employment, it is abusive employment, it is irregular employment, it is fraudulent employment. Our society has current mechanisms to pursue this kind of abuse that skips the law, we have labour inspections, we have trade unions, etc., and we fully agree that there are people, there are sectors that do not actually have enough force to defend law enforcement in employment and that the Administration has to ensure their interests. Are we talking about this or are we talking about hardening the conditions for access to minimum work? It is a debate that can be interesting, but let us raise it in these terms. We have minimum wages, but maybe they're low, we have specific contracts, but maybe it would be good if we had a single contract, for example, with other guarantees, I don't know. But what cannot be done is that when this debate ends the people who are in these situations and who have been told by Mr Hernández, whom we all know and which we all regret, and that it is true that they exist, because they are still the same, that is, they have not felt a ray of hope after this debate, because all this has been left in generic statements, in uplifting statements, such as "we have to stop the offensive against the working class". I propose to you to do something more concrete, which is to take a step forward and get to work on concrete things. In our proposal we have made a list of very specific proposals, we encourage them to support them so that we can begin to travel a path, a path in which, in fact, the level of quality of employment improves. And that generates a more active, healthier, richer economy, where, in fact, there are fewer precarious jobs, and assuming that everyone is absolutely legal, and, if not, that they act the law and that they act the mechanisms we have. In other words, it would be good if this debate ended in concrete things that gave a ray of hope to the workers who are, indeed, in that situation, which is very regrettable, and we hope that they can have some alternative soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u16	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Well, the first thing I want to do is thank you for the tone of the debate. In addition, I think that when the debate takes place in this kind of tone it is usually due to circumstances such as that in the background there may be many coincidences, and I want to keep that. I really believe that these coincidences, once a certain time passes and certain reticences are abandoned, we will be able to address them. It's important, Mr. Aiartza said, to know where we're going, to know where we're coming from. And there may be different readings. We have a clear reading, and we do not hide it, and it is that in recent times things have been done that have yielded good results. Before the pandemic, unemployment was below 10%, economic indicators were positive. The pandemic came and came to the train station, it's true. But we have a job done, there are solid foundations built and those too must be exploited. And the opposite would be a mistake, absolutely. There are still outstanding subjects, yes, the Vice-Lehendakari said the other day in her response to the inquiry. And precisely to give answers to outstanding subjects is everything we have put forward. The methodology you proposed to us in the initiative is what separated us today. But, I repeat again, the background is very inclusive and that is what we need to explore. It separates us from the methodology, because it is not true that making such an assembly, let me express it, give a more democratic or less democratic character to decisions. In fact, I give an example: you have shared with us in the Government of Spain the decisions, for example, which enabled the social shield to be carried out. And there has been no assembly process of presentation or anything, decisions have been made on reflections that, as Mr Hernández pointed out, we have already been doing for many years, and, at this moment, I believe it is time to make decisions. This Government, as Vice-Lehendakari recalled, has a clear commitment to quality employment and the instruments are the following: the already decided investment of 13.250 million from the Government; innovation, because we are at an unprecedented time in need of new answers; equality between men and women, and those over 45 years of age, in order to gain access to quality employment, and young people; social dialogue and the conclusion of public employment policies; occupational health, because there is no decent job without health guarantees; the strengthening of labour inspection – I would like to recall, in those tools that have worked, the 18,300 fraudulent contracts that were regularized in the past legislature –; the transformation of the public employment system, which makes Lanbide a useful tool for the training of workers, whether active or busy; the new employment strategy 2020-2030, in which we collect those elements of substance that we have talked about; institutional collaboration to reach that cross-cutting, and stability and political serenity. We're not asking for an act of faith, really. No, no, That is to say, these are specific issues on which we believe we can contribute, of course. And I will tell you, Mrs Kortajarena, that this government does not have the attitude of winning, no; it has the attitude of convincing, really. Another thing is that you bring us here an initiative to try to defeat the government. He can't. The numbers don't come out. And that is an element of political reality that you will have to assume. And, of course, the two groups that support the Government, when they are given the opportunity to ratify the road map that we have agreed between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, with this amendment, we are not going to miss it, of course. But our attitude is not to overcome, it is to convince. Well, it doesn't give me much time, but with regard to Mr Hernández, in fact, he has a non-law proposal also on this matter. And I believe that this moment will also be an opportunity to try to move forward on some agreements. Also because you and we are quite bound. I believe that the road map that we have also marked in the Spanish Government with the commitment to decent employment is a clear element of coincidence and consensus that we will have to address. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u18	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u19	Thank you, ma'am. One question, Mr. Gil, to essentially apologize to you. You propose to make or raise more specific questions, to go into detail. And I am really sorry, because I find those contributions interesting, as I also find Mr Hernández's contributions very interesting, that the reality of the debate has led us to more methodological questions. And that's what I've focused more on today. Mrs. Kortajarena, the appointment is not Mr. Otero's, it's a little before Mr. Otero's. There were things before Mr. Otero, too. When you say that I have accused you of a lack of rigour, I only analyze your words and say: without adjusting to a sufficient analysis, you have described everything as failure. That seems to me to be a lack of rigor, I don't accuse you, I think a lack of rigor. Is it, for example, a failure – and to set an example that has just been put – to correct recruitments from the Labour Inspectorate? I don't think it's a failure. And one day I claimed it as a success, as a success, in addition to that staff, of those workers who made an exceptional effort. But I don't say "it's a success"; I say – picking up the words of the Sailburu But you did disappoint me a little bit on two issues. I have a procedural disappointment, first of all, because on this issue there was another issue that Mr Hernández had brought to us, a non-legislative proposal on decent work, as the objective of sustainable development, decent work, says. You were talking to us the other day in the interpellation, Mrs Kortajarena, and today too, about talking calmly, about time... I think we could have waited a week and accumulated the two initiatives, I think. And we have done so with that respect, we have amended with different texts. It seems to me that I would have been more in line with your approach, with the approach that moves us from making global approaches, from talking calmly, from respect for everyone. No, it looks like you were in a hurry. I am not going to be the one to defend Mr Hernández's position, but I would have felt much more interesting. And, in addition, statistically, it is more agreed in the accumulated initiatives. And then I have another little disappointment linked to the subject of that debate, in my opinion: the recognition of the work done previously by other people, the way to refer to this in the inquiry. He said something about the oxide of the past, oxides of the past, on the way to the oxide. Look at this room. This room is made of wood, and for me this room represents, on the one hand, our recent history, this part of the room; and, on the other hand, those darkest pieces of wood in Izaro An expression of yours, without entanglement. I put to you a three-part offer: collaboration, dialogue with willingness to agree and recognition of the work done by those who preceded us. And I'm going to use another expression that you usually use too: "I have the feeling." Which is an expression that I like very much, "I have the feeling." I, at the moment, have the feeling that they are going to give up or that they are not going to accept our offer, and I have the feeling that they may be late again, although I hope I am wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u20	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Mist must not speak. Together, Mr. Hernandez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u21	Good. It is not up to us to defend with particular emphasis the initiative that EH Bildu brings, because I believe that Mrs Kortajarena is more than enough to defend her initiatives, and she has done so, but we certainly do not share that it is an initiative made to defeat the Basque Government. To us, of course, it does not give us that impression for a reason, I think I have mentioned it before and, if not, I mention it now. It seems to us that this initiative, which is also very concrete, to create a paper in this Parliament does not prevent the department from moving forward with what it has planned, with which it explained to us the first day that the councilwoman appeared and with the government agreement that we have already been explained. It's not incompatible at all. Therefore, in relation to an initiative that is not incompatible with the approaches of the Government and the groups that support the Government, it seems difficult to explain to me that it is an initiative that comes to defeat the Government. And there's one thing, Mr. Rico, that I think you said, that I think it's rather a slip, because I think you don't think that. You have said that this presentation is an assembly process. Man, I believe that a paper in the Basque Parliament, whatever type, whether you agree or not with the creation of that paper, is not an assembly process. It is a presentation in the Basque Parliament where, in fact, the actors whom the parliamentary groups consider to have something to say on this issue will be able to give their opinion, but that is far from an assembly process. I think it's more like a slip you had when you said that. He said something else: that you and we, I don't know if he has said this exact expression, but he has said in some way that we are obliged to agree, we have a government agreement also in the state. Well, I don't know if we're bound, I think it's good, but not just because we have a shared government in the state right now. I think that if we are going to talk about quality employment, it is good that we agree, you and us, you, us and the rest of the groups. I like to say sometimes that I can be dogmatic, but not sectarian. So I have no problem with agreeing on measures that our group considers to be good for quality employment with any group, even with Mr Gil, although we start from ideological concepts confronted. But there is one thing that, of course, we do not share in what he said in his second speech, because, moreover, we believe that this is not the case. You have described precariousness in employment and confined it only to situations of illegality, and this is not the case. In our reality there are multitudes, multitudes of perfectly legal jobs, perfectly legal, in conditions where a labour inspector could do nothing, because they comply with the law, and they are precarious jobs and in precarious conditions. A lot of them. Of course, then there are the violations of legality, abuses, etc., which is something that, of course, we too are concerned about and that we have always said that this is the first thing that needs to be tackled, and we have always emphasized that we do not have sufficient resources. And we did a lot of work in the previous legislature, both with the Labour Inspectorate and with new forms of collaboration beyond the Labour Inspectorate to pursue labour fraud, which is very widespread, which is true. But we cannot confine the precariousness of employment only to situations of fraud in the legal field or in the matter of jumping the agreements, etc., which it is true that this is what trade unions are for, but it is also true that trade unions cannot reach many companies. And I just want to make a reference. Man, it is true, in my intervention I have made a political and ideological reflection, to introduce our thoughts on this issue. It seems to you that part of it is made up of high-sounding phrases. Well, the most uplifting phrase I have heard here I think you have issued: speaking, in the middle of 2020, in the Basque Parliament, in a debate, about a paper to create quality jobs, you have lacked 30 seconds of your intervention to talk about the Soviet Union, the communist dictatorships, etc. Well, I love it, I love to hear the word Soviet Union
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u22	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Now that we've finished our discussion, we'll vote for Madame Ibañez's original letter of the Koran. We can vote. [[Pause]] We'll try it again. Get out there and see if it's okay. Let's try it again. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; the votes that are given, 74; the supporters, 27; the opponents of the enemy, 47; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u23	And may Mr. Gil's vote remain in the same sense as his party. Mr. Gil has a vote on Carmelo, and Carmelo votes and then the other doesn't come out. Do you understand? Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u24	Madam President, in this plenary I had delegates from Mr Iturgaiz, Mrs Larrea and Mr Gordillo. Mr. Gil was present at this plenary session.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u25	Yeah. With a delegated vote. Now they've briefed you. And then who's going to vote? He or Carmelo? Carmelo. Gil no va accivar. We'll next vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups Popular-Ciudados. We can vote. Wait a minute. Can we vote? I am now. We can vote. [[Pause]] The mistake has been the case with the realization and not the delegate. So Gil's gonna be sick or he doesn't work. It's what you say, Carmelo. Now if you will vote for me to see what was the result... [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters 5; the contrary, 68; Absences, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u26	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of Eukalia, the general corrections which have been introduced by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; the votes are 74; the supporters are 41; the contrary is 22; the abstations are 11. white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u27	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Motion, Carmelo Barroja, a member of the Basque Groups of Popula-Ciudadans, introduced in public health and on COVID-19 vaccines. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mr. Barrio, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, councillor, ladies and gentlemen, on. On 16 October we asked the Health Adviser about the need to strengthen public health programmes, following the qualitative leap in health and health surveillance and control needs that we are experiencing this year and that will certainly be prolonged for a while, let us hope that as soon as possible. Today I want to say that, in relation to the purpose of our group's motion, in relation to taking steps, we have reached an agreement on the motion resulting from the inquiry that we have put forward. We referred in that inquiry to the fact that forums of experts from different parts of the world in public health had studied the situation of health systems and made and made a constant emphasis on the importance of strengthening primary care, among other issues, as well as public health. Primary care is also included in this motion, as it is the gateway for the population to the health system and is essential for the containment of the virus. I suppose we will also continue to talk a lot in this Parliament about this. However, in the context of public health and primary care, there was a need to strengthen programmes and, in that regard, experts had already made a strong statement, urging Governments, the Government of Spain and the autonomous Governments, in connection with the strengthening of those budget lines and efforts. My group, Popular-Citizens, presented this question a long time ago, before, of course, the presentation of budgets and before the presentation of the government program. That is why it was necessary and urgent that, before the presentation of these budgets for 2021 in the House, consideration could be given to strengthening budget allocations in the field of public health, and that Parliament should take a decision in that regard. I think it is going to be something that will give a good feeling, a positive and effortful image of this House in relation to continuing to address the problems that arise at this time of health crisis. We focused on the public health program. And it was a shared consideration in the scientific world. We have seen this in different areas, as I said, and experts in this area say that it was necessary to increase these efforts in public health, in primary care, in the vaccination system; there are many issues that have been addressed. They marked the need for this pronouncement in the reflections they made. In recent forums, we have even seen very interesting and timely statements by Mr Rafael Bengoa's advisor to the Government of Patxi López. The conclusions of a forum on public health and vaccinations, held three months ago, marked the need for this pronouncement. It was attended by experts from different fields, medical specialists, university professors, medical and scientific societies, patient associations, biotechnology companies, nursing specialists or health system analysts. I think it was a forum with many very interesting, general conclusions. But I think those conclusions were very clear. The pandemic has highlighted the key role of public health, the need for this discipline to be strengthened. Investment in public health is often relegated to a background. The other day we were talking about that public health budgets were scarce, even in programs that seemed important, especially with the vision we now have. Perhaps in the 2019 budgets they were not contemplated, but now, logically, we have to look at it in another way. In this sense, these experts said that, today, even more so after this health crisis that we are experiencing, investing in public health is not an option, but an obligation. Well, it's clear. The conclusions, I repeat, also affected the strengthening of primary care, which is the gateway to the health system of the population and is essential for the containment of the pandemic. That has also been reflected in the compromise amendment. We have already said that we all have to make an effort. Society has to do with parliamentarians, parliamentary groups, Parliament trying to make a common effort to articulate tools that will serve society, which will strengthen a system that is now affected by the pandemic. We understand that this is the purpose of the motion we tabled and of the compromise amendment that we have signed: to take steps in strengthening the budget for strengthening the health and health system. We want that commitment, we are not going to go into quantifying, but we do want that strengthening commitment, which is clear and that, in fact, this budget increase shows that more can be done. We have signed a compromise amendment which says that the commitments made in the 2020-2024 government programme to strengthen primary care must be incorporated into future budgets, making progress in the care integration that incorporates the adoption of the public health law. That was already presented by the councilwoman on the government program. We will see, there will still be no time for the adoption of that law, and until then we must also continue to work and we must continue to invest and we must continue to bet on public health programmes. It also referred to this effort in the expansion of the workforce, investments in new infrastructure and remodelling and reform of primary health-care centres that need it. It is an essential element, both the investments of new plants and the reforms or renovations of health centres, that is to continue to support primary care and, logically, that has to be part of that priority. And we also said in this first point that public health programmes relating to epidemiological control and surveillance of infectious diseases will be strengthened. I say again that this reinforcement was necessary and the experts to whom I referred were speaking in those keys. And on a second point, we are talking about setting up, within the framework of the proposal of the groups supporting the Government, a multidisciplinary advisory body in this public health law to study the incidence of emerging infectious diseases, as well as the measures and policies to be taken. Well, I don't know what the public health law will regulate in relation to this body at the time, but this body already has it, we have already constituted it, then it can be improved and refined after the adoption of the public health law, and that is why we have proposed, and it has been accepted, that, until the adoption of the said law, the role of the Advisory Council for Emerging Infectious Diseases of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country will be governed by the orders and the rules governing it, which regulate its objectives and functioning. With regard to the advisory board, we believe that it is necessary, to dedust its state and to make experts play a fundamental role in the analysis and health proposals in the current situation; we believe that this effort needs to be made. It came to some extent into a parenthesis that from some point of view was somewhat inexplicable, but, well, there are the rules that regulate it and I am glad that this need for the functioning of the advisory board is reaffirmed within the framework of the rules that regulate it. I think he's got a lot to do. It can also do so in this function that the order established: the advisory council for technical advice and information on diseases was created. This is the most opportune time to fulfil the role of the pandemic and the need for technical advice. And, of course, everything else in relation to continuing to advise on appropriate measures to ensure control, surveillance, etc. I believe that this is the fundamental element of the motion, to have been able to take a step forward in the reference that a budgetary effort must be made to strengthen the headings and also the functioning of councils that have a virtuality, which is to provide technical, scientific advice to politicians when making decisions. I think there's the key. As I was saying, in conclusion, the June 2020 Forum on Public Health and Vaccines said that the pandemic caused by COVID-19 has put a health system in check that already had other problems, that already had other needs, and that it had important global challenges. It is therefore more necessary than ever for Governments, both national and autonomous, to increase investment in public health with the aim of implementing strategic plans to prevent such risks, in addition to protecting and promoting health. That was the intention of our motion. We are pleased with the agreement reached, I thank Mr Telleria and Mr Rico for their willingness and, in that regard, I believe it is a small step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u29	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, together the representative of the Podemos-IU, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u30	Good morning again. On the need to strengthen public health, we agree with Mr Barrio, and this also implies a need to strengthen it budgetaryly. We agree, because we believe that it is under-funded and that this also has concrete consequences, among other things, that primary care has to take on very limited public health work. We think, and we have also been insisting in recent weeks, that it is more necessary than ever to strengthen primary care and to strengthen it budgetaryly. That is why we have incorporated in our amendment a first point, which was very important to us, because we want to insist on that idea, and it is one which has somehow prevented us from being included in that agreement which you have reached, more especially, when you do not need us to take the initiative, if not, perhaps my group could have made a greater effort. We included ensuring in the forthcoming budgets the equalisation of the heading for public health with the average of the European Union, something we have insisted on on on other occasions. And a very important issue: to acquire a budget commitment of no less than 25% of each OSI to primary care, to reduce waiting lists in health centres to a maximum of 48 hours, to improve the quality of health care and to speed up accessibility to medical and nursing consultations. This is something we have also been insisting on; we also raised it in the previous legislature. It is true that the question is not just how much, but it is important to know how much. And we suggest that it is appropriate to equate ourselves to the EU average in terms of the percentage of investment in wealth. But it is also true that, along with how much, it is important to talk about how. More resources, if any, that there will be, and more investment, being necessary, are not enough. In our view, there is a need to decentralize organizational and management processes to health centres. To this end, primary care must also have greater weight within the department's own budget. We think that if both tasks do not go hand in hand, it is possible that we lose time, money and efficiency in the work put in place to avoid contagions, to avoid hospital income in this pandemic situation and to avoid, in the end, income in UVI and deaths by coronavirus and other pathologies. We recognize that in the compromise amendment that they have signed there is progress – I do not know whether I have left it or brought it – and there is talk of reinforcement. And we recognize him. But it is true that we would have liked to have been able to make a concrete budgetary statement. On the topic of the Emerging Infectious Diseases Advisory Council of Euskadi, we are concerned. We've already expressed it, we told the counselor yesterday. We believe that they have not received the proper treatment; we believe that this advice has not been taken advantage of. I know that the Government does not share this view, but, of course, it is the view that we have at the moment on the basis of what health professionals working with our parliamentary group are moving us. A technical advice, not political, with a broad view of infectious diseases, epidemiologists, healthists, infectologists, microbiologists, of all the reference hospitals of Euskadi. A council that had its first meeting on covid at the end of January, which was the first to ask for PPE and testing, which urged pharmacological attention in senior residences; a council that we think has somehow been ignored and also, in a way, supplanted by a steering committee. We understand the political role and technical role that both elements have to play, but we think that, somehow, it has been supplanted by a steering committee without the same experience in infectious diseases and with a more political profile. In his day, Nekane Murga replaced the Advisory Council on Infectious Diseases. Mrs Murga responded at the time to journalists' replies, literally: "I can tell you that in the last month they have been gathered – we are talking about I think that from April or May – and they perform their functions with total normality, they are the people in whom we have the utmost confidence." Well, I think this is similar to what you are telling us now, to what Mr. Berraondo told us yesterday. But, as we tell you, the professionals we work with are moving that concern. They ensure that some of the recommendations of these experts, as early as January, would not have liked the department too much. They planted, among other measures heard, greater control in the residences of older adults. Murga decided to set up the so-called Steering Committee, consisting of the Vice-Advisor, Iñaki Berraondo and other managers of his confidence, and we think that this has left the pandemic expert committee in a discreet background. At the moment, the Department of Health has a team to monitor the pandemic, in our opinion, more political than technical and lacking experts in infectious diseases and microbiology. I would also like to point out that the new body, called the "Technical Commission", is made up of six men, no women. We think that in Euskadi there are women experts in this field, we do not understand that this has been the result. I share something Mr. Barrio said. Well, we'll wait for the law, see what role that organ has. But at the moment we think that this council already exists; we think that this council should have a more important role. We have moved the concern that health professionals are moving us, in this particular epidemiological area, that they are not being sufficiently taken into account. And this is what we propose. We believe that this council should be given a relevant role right now. That is why we are going to maintain our amendment and we are going to abstain in the agreement that you have reached, above all, on the budgetary issue that we believe is fundamental at the moment. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u31	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, Mr Barrio, the question was raised before the presentation of the strategic lines to be followed by the department, where we were also presented with the strategic framework that I believe has greatly facilitated the incorporation of the agreement into the transactional to which we have been able to reach. You said in the interpellation that your aim was to improve health, and in that we absolutely agree. Not only for the sake of continuous improvement, but it is clear that the COVID-19 pandemic has put new needs on top of the table. It is clear that the ordinary configuration of the different health systems was not thought in terms of coping with a pandemic. And this has made absolutely intensive efforts, by governments, professionals and even citizens, to take measures and adapt to them over this time. When he presented the strategic lines the Sailburu Councilwoman Sagardui explained the numerous actions that have been taken, in this area immediately, to deal with the new reality that we have been living since March: the establishment of technical committees, the establishment of diagnostic protocols, the elaboration of contingency plans, plans for the acquisition of equipment, respirators, anesthesia towers and ecographers, human resources plan to strengthen the ICU staff, the development of telephone consultations in primary care... I'm not going to stop because it's in the session log, but I do think it's relevant when dealing with content. In short, in the end, they are all measures aimed at addressing the epidemiological situation in which we find ourselves, reorganizing services with a clear objective, which is to ensure assistance in the safest way possible. I said that too in that appearance and I repeated it yesterday in the Health Commission. I think it is necessary to be clear with the citizenry and to say, of course, that the epidemiological situation will continue to condition the strategy to be developed in the different care devices. And that this applies both to hospitalizations and to ICUs, as well as to emergencies, as well as to primary care, because in the end the COVID-19 is forcing us to reorganize all health care constantly, in order to continue to guarantee the safety of both patients and professionals. And these situations, said the Sailburu Sailburu itself We agree that primary care needs to be strengthened, it is one of the objectives within the strategic framework, with the increase in the number of staff, both optional staff and nursing staff. This strengthening of primary care also needs to be deepened in the integration of care, in the integration of public health in the area of primary care, in order to integrate the epidemiological devices of the field into the different OSIs. We believe – it is also said – that accessibility to the system needs to be improved, because a clear response must also be given to the waiting lists and delays that have been generated throughout the pandemic for non-covid patients. The surveillance network needs to be further strengthened. In the saltburu saltburu The government agreement also includes the establishment of a Standing Committee on Epidemiological Issues. In addition, there is a fundamental aspect, which is coordination with that of the Government of Spain and with the European bodies set up in this field. Also, Health Plan 2021-2028 incorporates this new public health strategy to address new threats. Or the most generic, and very important, objective of consolidating the workforce, working conditions, and this OPE between 2020 and 2024, of 4,000 places, in addition to the modernization and adequacy of health facilities and equipment. Mr. Barrio, you're right. These commitments do indeed need to be reflected in budgets. And I believe that precisely because of that logic it has been so easy to reach a compromise amendment, because it is clear that all these commitments must then have a compromise to the budgets. If not, we could hardly carry out the OPEs, it would be difficult to carry out any infrastructure revisions or extensions that were deemed appropriate. I appreciate the hand extended to reach this agreement, and I think it is taking a step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u33	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u34	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. It starts with an interpelation about public health investments and mythical vaccines against COVID-19. Mr. Barrius made an appointment, the chief physician replied, and, examining his discourse, I am sure he did it not only justly, but also openly. And after a while he introduced a motive. In the future, he speaks of the investment of public health, but he forgets his vaccination and demands the medical advice of the Insectal Diseases. It turns out that, not at the end of his speech, but at the end of his reply, he quoted that famous advisory committee as a landmark, and put it on the motion. So, in principle, it looked like some kind of apples brought in. Without further ado, this preamble does not mean that I am going to run away from the debate today, but I recognize that it was intellectually essential to comment that, to a large extent, the motion had nothing to do with the inquiry. And despite the satisfaction – I really confess it – because it is the first motion that I bring this legislature and pom, bingo, correct and come to a compromise, I could not help commenting on how this motion has arrived here. Let's go through parts, already in the motion, because it really has two parts that have nothing to do with each other, except that both of them question the same department, but in concepts, in principle, they have little to do with each other. In the first, we now urge the Department of Health to strengthen the Public Health Programme in budget proposals 2021. It turns out that the government programme is already talking about the intention to improve the integration of public health and health care services. There is talk of the public health law, of the commitment to strengthen primary care, and also of the same programme of opening up new infrastructure and of remodeling and reforming those primary care centres that need it. Nolanahi ere, aurrekontu-proiektuan, osasun-programa publikoa aurrekontu-arloan indartzeaz hitz egiten duzu, éta nik esaten, gure taldeak zurari esaten god, osasun publikoa indartu egingo de la Legebiltzar honek datorren urtearen have been onartuko dituen aurrekontuetan. The programmes and the amount allocated to them are approved here in parliamentary debate. That is why we ask you – regardless of the amount allocated – to incorporate already the commitments made in the programme of the Basque Government, which is what we understand to be logical. Because we are not going to discuss whether the training in Epidemiology is little or much being 15,000 euros, because I, of course, have no idea how much a standard training in Epidemiology costs, no idea. Or do you know, as mentioned in the inquiry, whether 5,000 euros for the printing of emerging diseases is much or little? This year may have been little, but surely most of the rest of the years have been enough, even left, among other things, because every year Euskadi does not fill us with emerging diseases, and less evil. However, having agreed to deal with the amendment tabled by us, it seemed right to add that the programmes relating to epidemiological control and surveillance, which we already understood to be included, should be strengthened, but it is never further specified and implemented. In any case, we really appreciate the effort to agree, because if a group wants to, they see that we are willing to do so. If he doesn't call us, then, man, they haven't called us, and so we're not going to kneel down and try to make a deal with others. We do not need it, but we believe it is good for the country, for Parliament and for social tranquillity. We believe that it is logical for the Government to carry out its own programme, basically it is what we want: to control it to comply with the programme they have committed to comply with, and to project it in the budgets in a balanced way to what is committed. That seems logical and I am sure it will happen, because this Government, among other things, is consistent with what is committed. What will definitely happen will also happen in this House, because in our hands, in those of this House, it is giving the budget in a sufficient way to public health and to the rest of the budget items, for which I also announce that we are ready to agree. With regard to the second issue dealt with in your motion, which is nothing other than trying to ask for the clear definition of the Advisory Council on Emerging Infectious Diseases, I would like to clarify that this council was created by order of the Health Advisor in May 2016, at the thread of the emergence of the Zika virus. In fact, article 1 says that it is created to analyze the Zika virus. And their missions and composition are described in such order. And then there's a pre-decree from 2005 that says how all the Health Department's advisory boards work. This council remains active and issues reports that it believes are appropriate. On the other hand, in the government programme, in section 74.4, this Government undertakes to establish a standing committee on epidemiological matters. The one, the other or both must define or redefine their contents more precisely at the time and define their composition within the framework of the new public health law, which the Government has also committed itself to bringing. It also seems that it is the legal framework to give it a stable and consistent conformation that does not lead to misunderstandings or confusions concerned. It is a law and laws are also passed in this Parliament. Then when the public health bill arrives at this headquarters, here we will discuss it by all groups so that this new law will come out of here that will contain the definition, objectives and contents of all committees that we parliamentary groups intend to exist for the better management of public health. We have also accepted a compromise at that point, and I also thank him for the fact that the existing advisory board continues to function in accordance with the order that created it, which is logical. We are not going to create a new order now because someone has come up with it, waiting for the public health law. To the extent that a law does not modify its purpose or constitution, it will remain as it is, for no one has questioned its work, and when the law reaches this headquarters, we will also agree. By the way, as a matter of fact, three experts from the advisory committee are on the LABI Technical Committee. I will also tell you that, if it is your technical advisors who tell you, why don't you expand the circle of your relationships a little bit, because you might get other information. In short, what you require in your motive is, that in the former or later part of this legislature, something is decided once and for all; that is to say, to you and your team, as to all the rest, the criterion and the controversy with all the members of the legislature. With this I can end the defence of our amendment and the defence of the compromise that we have reached with the People-Citizens Group, but, since I have time left, I think it is worth it, just as another intellectual exercise – you see that I come with that desire – remember that in your inquiry and throughout your debate and today you have repeatedly mentioned that such statements, that of strengthening public health and that of the model of purchase and distribution of the vaccine, which were the topics that were discussed, come from previous debates of experts who have come to such conclusions. Well, and understanding that experts are necessary in all areas of knowledge, we also need to know which forums we are talking about and in which contexts, because sometimes I have encountered surprising assertions in certain forums that were not so surprising after you observed or understood some promoters of them. I say this so that everyone is on notice about the exacerbated forism that we have come to, very close to forophism, and I know, as some scientific associations have also said, that scientists have knowledge and politicians have power, although I am concerned that some say it with a crooked mouth, as longing to have what they do not possess. What I am telling you is that, apart from the fact that there are also politicians who have scientific knowledge, there are scientists who have power, which are not two parallel worlds. The normal thing is that knowledge is put at the service of democratic power, so that it can be right in its decisions, and when they are taken they have to be on a substrate of knowledge, and that a democratic filter of choice has passed, as is the case. As a colophon, I believe that, in conclusion, in a great forum and after long and expensive meetings, public health must be strengthened and future vaccines must be bought at a fair price, in a public way and avoiding supply and supply problems, because neither must it be a Nobel Prize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u35	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The next round of the teams that have no corrections, Miss Mist, Mrs Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u36	Good morning, everyone. First of all, I would like to express my surprise at the title of the motion, which has nothing to do with the content of the motion, which has nothing to do with vaccines against COVID-19, although the issue they raise is not without interest. It is because at this point we still do not know the reasons why the previous Basque Government, also made up of PNV and PSOE, decided to put the Advisory Council on Emerging Infectious Diseases in the background and to create an alternative forum more political, more attached to the Executive, more conditioned by the acronyms than by the reality of the pandemic. So today, that the government coalition is going to pass its roll again, they are going to have a great opportunity to explain to us why they are decisively betting for a political management of a health crisis, also the scientific criteria and technical reports that guide their decisions, because of course there has to be a lot of policy when it comes to making decisions, but before there should be a lot more science. You can use this moment to be honest with the citizens you represent and tell us how and why you make certain decisions, explain to us your plans, your forecasts, what you intend to achieve. How are they going to avoid the total collapse, the economic crash and the closure of thousands of companies? But I fear that they will again assign decisions to experts we do not know and will again cover with a smokescreen that technical committee of the COVID-19 coordinated by Mr Jonan Fernández, without doubt, a worldwide eminence in health matters, in commitment to truth and impartiality, and together with him an epidemiologist and a remarkable list of trusted positions, of men with little technical profile. You can imagine how we feel so many thousands of Basques knowing that we are in these and other hands so untrained, so uncommitted to the common good and so dependent on political power. On the motion put forward by the PP, of course we agree to increase spending on public health, but what less to comment on how much more and where they think this money should come from. On the Council of Infectious Diseases it was necessary to clarify its functions, now that the COVID-19 campes wide on our streets, its composition, its calendar of meetings, knowing that we need a more powerful committee of experts, of experts in health, crisis management, in coordination of resources, in attention to groups at risk, in communication, in the approach of economic crisis, in current legality. Nothing like what this government has today, and very much like that team that advised Pedro Sánchez and never existed. As proof, we have the amendment of the government parties. I really want to believe you, but I can't. So many times I've heard the mantra of "let's strengthen primary care", so many times it has failed... So no, I don't believe them. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and PSOE, they are now proposing to set up a new advisory body on infectious diseases. First, they decapitate him, then they condemn him to oblivion and now they propose to create him again. I suppose it's his particular way of political responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u37	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u38	Good morning. As a matter of fact, I'm dislocated. I'm really delocated. I thought we were going to talk about public health, because the motion talked about it, but then the public health went off in the middle. Totum revolutum I should have said that pandemy had to come, that a vile, fleeting virus had to come, to place public health in its proper place, to take the place where public health deserves. For when we talk of public health, I would explain that we often confuse the terms. We're talking about the program under public health and addictions, the strategic line, the field, and we're not talking about the public health system structure. And I think it's best to explain the concept. We seem to have noticed that I was going to say, but I doubt if we noticed the importance of the public health work and strategy in the health and collective health of the individual. It will be another matter, not only to take consciousness, but to lead the Government to the practice of its will, which has hitherto been unable to lead it to such a theoretical strategy. Or he didn't want to, or the daily inertia checked him. Look at the health plan, see the health strategy, different lines: It's good to get the whole strategy. But it is always the persistence that devours and repels public health. It's true that the ıteta also has to be explained that the normal public strategy area has two main legs. One of them is health-suspection-prevention, and ecemiological care connected with everyday life, and the other field of work, which has hitherto been more exceptional, more associated with other viruses, with possible epidemics or pandemies. Remember Agripe, ebola... Even the Ebol did not succeed in taking consciousness of the importance of public health in 2014. If the tree had been spread among us, it would have been a terrible slaughter in our society. I remember being invited by the Medical Department in Donostian, we had gone to know the special space that came to the Estate Hospital. I remember also that a shambles of the protocol had been made and that it had gone wrong. And I remember that the Medical Department announced that it would take an elevator to fill these protocols with independent access to this special space, otherwise it would pass through other hospital areas and everything would get infected. That elevator hasn't been built yet. For those you don't remember: The Donostian Hospital was named a reference unit in the prime of the ebol. And, on the other hand, I'd like to take advantage of that we're talking about the Settian infection unit, to congratulate that unit, because they're doing a great job on the subject of the covida. So saying, thank God that this is not so mortal as to be taken in the hooks. He's mortal, but he's among the hooks. We could find ourselves with viruses that could be much more legitimate. Imagine if the viruses that are much more legitimate should come to our society. I think we need to think about it. So if we don't take advantage of the chance that COVID-19's pandemies are also the option of all Dictators, it's clear that we can't do it as a species. And we think we should take this opportunity. What for? To change to the culture of health, because we've never been able to do it before. To bring public health to the center. To organize the health system that is really based on health treatment and prevention. In order to strengthen these symptoms of health, remember that the domestic policy, the most extreme policy, the environmental policy, the economic influences in health, and in this they work and work in public health. How to influence these indicators in order to enhance the health of all. To share the decisions of the people: Remember, we have regional medical reports and have not yet developed them. To deepen the formation and training, the professionals and the people. Communciation of the possible. To bring the most vulnerable collectives to the centre, because they are so far excluded from all plans, in all plans. To create a pattern of structure and functionary structures by multiscilining real equipment. To give up the original model of modern services, to guide the organization adapted to new times. To integrate social and sanitary perspective into the community, not to become the mere isolated and coordinated space we've been dealing with. To update indicators. To penetrate into the working of the public medical system, of the university, and of the social system; to plan, to supply, and to renew. Be an ebola, be SARS-CoV-2 virus or a potential virus that can come in front of societies and systems to react properly, so that society and system can be prepared and formed. So that we put aside so much theory, and think that it's time to force measures because it's not all a resource, it's also a question of mentality and we also have to change mentality. Mentality is a persistenceist and consumer, because health has been directed to consistentize in the past few years. And we must begin to change all this: People can handle it, format it. And even the chief and overseers and boarders of the Osapons must leave the corners and the ways to function. I mean, we have to make a mistake to learn. We've got plenty to get out of here. And instead of forming new teams of epidemicology, we should bring all the people to the centre, get together with the existing ones; we should go deep in the work together. We have public health managements in the country, we have public health equipment in the districts, we have a council of infections. Why don't we work with them? Why should we wait again for a law? We're not counting on the work of these people. We're not counting, and they're going to work. Besides, they're structures of comradeship and the Medical Department, they're experts. We think, then, that there is something to be improved by the trade we have, because we have commercials. We do. It would lead us to give importance to the first line and to act on the true integration. And it would probably do, even if Osa weren't only a sanitary zone, but it would be open to towns, cities, healthy social spaces, where he would work through the communal attention of a different philosophy, nurse, medical, physiotheist, professional society, professor, and so on. That is to say, with different professional profiles in the neighborhoods, in the community, in the schools and in the country. But all this requires that many forms, many educations, many mentalities, should be changed, that the permanent formation of our professionals and citizens should be prepared, and that of any unforeseen and exceptional condition. For example, at the moment, there's a lack of intelligence, isn't there? We don't need enough intelligence every day. Then we should think of the specialities we prepare for a situation like this, of having and prepared each year, of being trained, of putting them under an exception. We need a lot more polybal professionals in the first line, not so special. And of course we need specializations, but we need other profiles too. It is therefore required that we should adapt ourselves to new times at the moment of the public health which we speak of. That's what's calling for teamwork, team, team, team. It takes default equipment. And above all, we have to open more doors for the Oscars. For this purpose, we have health reports, very theoretical, in order to participate in the people of the country. But they are not open, they are not started; they are not activated. The means, then, are necessary, but not everything is a means. And I think we have a lot of work to do, to work differently. And in this sense, when we talk about the program and strategy of public health, that requires a change of mentality, and a work in those areas where we have often neglected real knowledge...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u39	Please finish. Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing on the answers, Mr. Barrio, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u40	Yeah. Thank you very much, Madam President. And briefly, from the seat, with your permission. They have used it to criticize some parliamentary attitude, in relation to the inquiry and in relation to the motion. I, Mr Tellería, really like to be analysed, as you have done, in relation to my parliamentary procedure. The analysis makes me act better and better, or not, but I try to be analyzed and tell me how I present the inquiry and how I present the motion, because what has guided me in this motion, Mr. Telleria, is to want to reach an agreement. I tabled a motion not for disagreement, because sometimes parliamentary groups present things for disagreement or confrontation. I wanted to put forward a motion to reach an agreement, which was what I have achieved, that the House should see a commitment to strengthen some of the issues that need to be strengthened, and that society should see that Parliament is working on that, that it understands that public health programmes need to be strengthened, that it does so in line with experts, indeed, although there are times when great experts come to very general conclusions, but they are experts, and some of them know very well our health system with our weaknesses and try to improve it with their analyses. I say again that there are some who are very close to us and who speak about these issues publicly. I believe that society also perceives these needs. I understand, and I say again, that the rules governing the advisory council are currently correct. What we've been trying to do is make that advisory board really work. And that is what we want: that its functions, its composition, which determines, of course, the Government, that they are the best, and that this will be carried out. Then, in fact, I believe that the parliamentary debate or the debate on the public health law will be very interesting. There will also be a space to contribute, to contribute. We have gained a lot of experience on some issues. So I think that's the fundamental element. With regard to vaccinations, I understand that strengthening public health programmes will also imply strengthening the procurement or strategic policy in relation to vaccines. I believe that is the case and I consider it integrated. Of course, I share the issues that Mrs Ubera has dealt with at this time. I believe that the issue of professional profiles, the empowerment of the population, the involvement of teams and councils is also important in this general debate. We must work, indeed, and even the law must work with what is. And we have good things, that is, we're going to put them into practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u41	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u42	Thank you. I take the floor just to thank Mrs Ubera and the EH Bildu group who, as they were moving us yesterday, in the event of a vote on our amendment, would have supported it, although the amendment is not finally going to be voted on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u43	Please stand up for a walk, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u44	From the seat, if I may. I would like to thank, as I did in the first speech, the willingness to agree. Sincerely, Mrs Ubera, when you tell us that you were dislocated, I can understand, as has been done in some mention, that even that dislocated came from what was the inquiry and, then, what was the motion, but not in the compromise amendment that we have reached or in the debate, because it includes, practically, in its entirety, what Mr Barrio was proposing to us. The elements of the debate have therefore been the same. Another thing is that it is true that some other things that have not been included in the motion itself were discussed in the debate on the inquiry. And there's one thing I can't resist. To the representative of Vox: I begin to have the feeling that you don't care what we say here, that comes with a paper and will read it, let's say what we say, both in the first speeches and in the reply. It tells us that we will apply the roller when there is a compromise amendment. That's why you didn't give him time to take it off the paper, I guess. But then, in addition, he comes here in a very Vox style to ask insidious questions always without any answer. And today he has told us that he is not going to believe this government, because it is leaving a number of people abandoned, and he has mixed it with issues of work, of aid to self-employed people, etc. I, in front of this kind of thing, all I can do is put the mirror on it, Mrs. Martinez. What did you do with the ERTEs? Did they vote in favour of that protection measure that was made for citizens? What did you say about the minimum living income that protects so many people? They said it was the "paguita," that it was a joke. What did you think and what do you think now, with your permanent schizophrenia, about the interprofessional minimum wage? I, Mrs Martínez, ask you for consistency and that if you are going to come here and move, no matter what we discuss, a series of positions that have nothing in substance, at least, when you see here what the positions of others are, remake the speech a little bit. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u45	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u46	Thank you, ma'am. I don't usually come here to make friends, but I like to come here to make friends at the end. So, Mr. Carmelo, I wasn't trying to blame you or... How am I going to ask you to improve your parliamentary activity if you have here the triple of trienniums that I have. I mean, in any case, if you've felt bad, then my apologies. But, as I said, it was an attempt at intellectual analysis of how an inquiry becomes a motion. In general terms, what has come to be the compromise amendment and what it came to ask is something that will come to this Parliament sooner or later, and through GNP or motion we cannot get ahead of the projects that will come here, the budgets, the laws, etc. Look, Mr Hernández, when you apply what you ask here in the autonomous communities in which you co-rule, that there are, I will listen to you much more carefully, because the logic is that someone asks what, if they govern, they undertake to do. And, having said this, as he is angry with me again, so that he may be reassured, I say in public Soviet Union Look, if in 2019 the per capita expenditure on health was 1,730 euros, in 2020, and without any of the extra pandemic expenses, 1,801 euros per person have been budgeted. The Basque Government's health budget is over 33% of the total budget. Spain, in 2018 and according to the Ministry, was in 6.3% of public health expenditure against GDP, and spends 1,613 euros per person. According to Eustat, in 2008 expenditure in Euskadi was 5 % of GDP and in 2016 6.1 % of GDP. No, that's where I get lost in those figures, but, my question is, what would you rather have, more percent on GDP or more spending per person? Because I am referring to your amendment. Every tenth we climb is a huge budget effort. We can also bring down GDP a lot and then we would have a very high percentage. That's right, a slashed economy. From the Advisory Council on Infectious Diseases, I have already told you that it is organized, working perfectly, that it issues reports when it wants – because that's what the order says – or when asked. He's been asked, and not so long ago. In fact, many protocols that are working today have issued them. A management committee was then set up. You don't have to be wrong, they're reading fake news. I already know that the opposition feels very comfortable asking, because, regardless of whether they think that's their job, it's relatively simple when you don't have the box, your needs and the possible debts in your hand. Regardless of what part of what you are asking for in your amendment, in yours, Mr Hernández, is also inconcrete, because it says: "implement real social and health care". Well, I'd like to know what that is, you can put it right now, but good. On the other hand, I would like every time you submit a GNP of those that you ask, many of them, to put their quantification in euros below the requests. Basically, so that I, my parliamentary group and the citizenry in general know what we are talking about. It's like when my kids come to eat at my house every now and then to greet me, they've ever thought about saying, "Why don't you paint this? Why don't you change the blinds?". I don't know why they do it, whether to make me happier or to make it better when they inherit the house. But I always say to them, "Look, you bring me the bill, and we'll see what we're talking about." Well, that's it. Health in Euskadi is an example of public service, magnificent and, by the way, magnificently valued. It is a service that does not suffer cuts and that will not suffer them. It is true that the pandemic has strained it to unbearable limits, and there it is enduring for the work of health personnel, but also because there is an organization and management behind it that has kept the system standing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u47	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Myst, Mrs Martínnez, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u48	I'll do it from here. I did not intend to intervene, but I cannot avoid this intervention, to address Mr Rico. First of all, I thank you for addressing Vox. They are already learning, as far as I can see, something of what democracy is. You know, like me, Mr. Rico, that we had a much more ambitious proposal and more attached to the society of which you have presented with your different patches. Vox's actions seek to help society. His is all fantasy, not even the Bank of Spain believes your budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u49	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u50	It's a pity: Today we were supposed to be talking about public health, but we didn't. It's obvious that we have a lot to learn what public health is exactly. It would be good for us to visit different equipment and trades, to see what really is the work of public health. The original initiative was in this direction, by strengthening public health, but, in the middle, again, it was withdrawn, and stood aside. And, Mr. Rico, it's very remarkable. Es equidente que se ha dejado al lado el program de salud plublica. It seems also that the discussion of the Inflections' Commission is to be avoided. And you take the ball, you kick it, you hide around a potential law. Sorry, but we already have a committee of counsel. What's going on? And that's what we have to figure out and put it right. Not that we will form other structures around a hypothetical law. What do we need so many structures for? Let's use what we're going to do, put what we're going to do, and let's get together. And Mr. Tellegio said we should have contact with other contacts beyond our narrow contacts. Well, I give him the same advice, because it seems to be decided, that from this splitdistic mentality, they are taken into a very small kernel, and that our experts and the government's structures are turned aside. In these structures we have men of different ideology, even the EAJs, but they are chiefly experts, who know much, experienced in the field. Then, on the other hand, when the budgets are concerned, we're also asked to explain and, when we make proposals, to make numbers. Well, the public health program, year after year, has increased from 2010, but it hasn't been run 25% per year. Why isn't he executed? One thing is what's done in the budget and then another is how much it spends, how much it runs. And we should look at that, too. And you ought to observe the facts of the Eupstate also, because they are very clear facts: How much of our health costs for the Gordin product of the interior. And I'm telling you, it's not all expenses, it's not all intermediate. And as for public health, as far as attention is concerned with common health, we all require a great change of mentality: Partners, citizens, and all of you. We could do a lot of work on that nail, because this government already has a theory. And I say it out loud too: He's very theoretical. It's very well received in documents: In the health plan, in the strategic furrows... But it does not succeed, it does not develop. So, in the government program, plans and plans are gonna be fine, but they don't settle anymore. At the second point, today's discussion wasn't very close, and we'll discuss it next week. But we don't even have much light left, because it's a matter of production that the approval of the public health law seems to be a condition for the first care to have more resources. So what? Do we have to wait for this law now? We do not know what law it is, what it will have, when it will come. In the meantime, we're not going to do anything? Do we have to wait? Is that what it's like to be proactive and positive? It seems to me, especially at this moment, that we need measures, and not so much laws, but measures, which will take effect, and which will help us from the state of emergency. So good intention is all right, but we need precise initiatives and precise proposals. And that's what we miss. If you read the program of government, there are very nice projects, but we don't know how to establish them, whether they work or not. We have no action or initiative. In the first detail, how will you increase your plantilage? In public health, edemologists, equipment, how many will you increase them? What's going on with the trackers? And so on. So it seems to me that today's discussion should have been directed differently, and that we ought to be discussing public health, but it has not been so. Perhaps it would be well for us if we began to visit, to know the work of public health.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. End of discussion, we're going to vote for the half-correction signed by Basque Populara-Ciudadans, Basque Socialists, and Eubertarians. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly were 43; 75; the supporters of the party, 47; the opponents of the enemy, 1, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u52	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "To collect the proposition as a parlamentary group, as to the increase and expanding of the industrial development of the Basque System of Social Services. Discipline and final resolution. On the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Rodriguez, representing the EHG team, has the word to present and defend himself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u53	Thank you, Mrs. President. The President is not here, the chief of departments, the members of the legislature, good day. Well, before we begin, I would like to thank the presence of Vice-Lehendakari first and Security Advisor, Josu Erkoreka. This will give you the opportunity to attend the discussion of a real constructive contribution, as real constructive contributions were discussed last Thursday and the previous and the previous and the previous and the previous. It has been exposed by COVID-19, and by a multiple-dimensional crisis, to the extreme deficit system of social service, very serious. No doubt the pandemae would have stretched out any system for watch and protection. The problem is, in our country, the system hasn't been able to handle the last blow. In the Basque Autonomy, after the first Cases of COVID-19, the euscal system of social services interrupted almost all the care-service services except the centres of senior residences. In the context of the compact agreement between social services, the Basque Country declared that we were in the moment of great importance, in order to have a system of social service in the Euscal Autonomy. Four years later, the diagnosis cannot be more hopeless: Not only are the objects received in the law of the Social Services, but the differences and differences within the territory, and consequently the differences of the people, have increased in the last four years. In these conditions of unequal and unequal balance between the lands, the system assumed the crisis of COVID-19. Besides, in this crisis the system had no control, for it was decided to renounce the jurisdictions given by the law from the very beginning. Thus the answers given by each of the historical and townships have sometimes been very different, sometimes contradictory. The crisis has shown two opposite phenomena of character: On the one hand the importance of the institutions which guard and protect us has been made more obvious than ever, and on the other hand it has revealed the inclinations of these institutions in its crudeness. But these gaps and problems were prior. The epidemic has not extended the euscal system of social services; it is necessary that we should be able to adapt ourselves to the social service, to the social services which are in agony, to the duties which have been privatized and preligated, to the new normality, and, in many cases, far from the people. This situation is drawn by political decisions. Political resolutions taken in the past, and those political decisions which are now taking place, or rather are not received. During these long months, in proportion to the prevention of COVID-19, I'm sure it's not possible for you to renew the public eucalyptic system of social services, to rediment and to make any measure of strength. When the head of political society, on the 4th of May, was introduced by the program of the Gabe fund, it did not direct one of them to strengthen the eucalyptic system of social services, nor any of them. Just a month ago, when we were discussing the measures we had to take to prepare residential centres for the elderly in the face of a second wave of the covid, we pointed out the following paradox that I would like to repeat today: although we disagree on how much, there was more than a broad consensus on the need to strengthen health and education systems. My question is: why does this consensus not reach the Basque system of social services? Hasn't he seen himself, is he not seriously hit by the crisis? Perhaps, and only perhaps, the problem is that they have not yet been able to understand the importance of protecting and caring for citizens. A few days ago, my good friend Iker reminded me that Pablo Neruda said that poetry is not the one who writes it, but the one who needs it. To which I would add that prose too. So they're going to allow me to echo the reflections Fernando Fantova shared a few days ago. He defined care as a hidden plot, a plot that is holding us in health and disease, in everyday life, millions of humble, fleeting, often automatic acts; without such acts, others would not be possible. If the bedroom hadn't been cleaned, the doctor wouldn't be able to get into it. If they had not called that person from the social services, their unintended loneliness situation would not have been known. If that food hadn't been prepared with affection, it would have stayed on the plate. If no one had helped me get up, I'd still be in bed at this time. "How much tension is that plot putting up with, that hidden plot?", asks Fantova. I like to use the data, but the data doesn't tell us how the caregivers collapse from fatigue, when they cry from impotence, if they get sick, or even if they die. We take it they'll keep taking care of us, or free or cheap. As the Councillor for Equality, Justice and Social Policy reminded us, Mrs Artolazabal, just over a week ago, there is no reason to worry. There will always be a woman, yes, a woman, let's get out of the euphemism family So that to-day we have brought this proposal to this parliament: The development of the Euscal system of social services to increase the financial funding funding and expand its purpose. Simple, easy: To increase economic resources for social services in order to respond to the requirements derived from COVID19. I'll give only one example to ensure that the funding Fund is insufficient for the development of the Basque System of Social Services. For instance, a township like the Renaissance receives from the international funds 190.000 euro this year, 15,800 euros per month, 4,7 euros per inhabitant year, 39 cents per month. This. Is this the greatest effort we can do to support the euscal system of social services with money? Really? Is it just like it's in the government program and the spelling book that's been released, that's what I'm trying to convince you? This? With these two coins you must face the one who has seen how the center of day that attended to his family closed its doors, who lived on the street and now, only now, is treated as a problem, who in isolation needs to be provided with relationships, and so on and so forth. All with two coins, even to Judas the high priests gave him 30 coins. Now that we are talking about funds, we cannot fail to mention what happened to the extraordinary social fund of the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030. A chapter that shows us that the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy has an attitude problem, with The Ministry of Social Rights informed AGREY of that extraordinary society in March 20th. Euskal Autonomia was 13,4 million euros. The object of this funding was to finance the projects needed to develop the preparations for social services. On the other hand, to agree to the distribution of that fund, I wouldn't meet him until June 24th with the locals and municipal councils. And the separation was not agreed until the 28th of July, that is, 130 days later. In the meantime, the lack of funk gave him a little crack. The Ministry demanded a justification of expenses, but that didn't lead to 13,4 million dollars yet. So, in front of the danger of losing the substance, he sent the first thing he could get, the help of social distress. The most funny thing about all this is that, today, the counselor still complains about "the urgency shown by the ministry, both for the distribution and for receiving the justification of the fund." I don't know, counselor, I don't know... Let me think. In the midst of a pandemic, what urgent reasons can there be for strengthening the protection and care of people? You understand sarcasm, right? But apart from the Ministry of Social Rights, two other considerations can be considered. On the one hand, this fund will be the only economic support that will receive from the community's eucalyptic system if it does not change its roots. On the other hand, apart from the contribution made by the forum in pure terms, the investment of ordinary and unusual funds will be very much like this year. I mean, this year the Madrid government and the Gastine Government will have a pretty similar economy of economic effort to support the euscal system of social services. That's all you've said. It's clear that the social service system has a place in the world's euscal system between the niceties of the House of Urcullu government. But for a moment, let's go back to our community's tools to the Esupal System of Social Services. I think his eclaircissement is not enough. But what happened to his purpose? I mean, why have 90 million euros already been used? The Basque Country was interested, and asked the Department of Equality, Justice, and Society Politic. Two round-backed pages to acknowledge that there is no idea. Those who have the overall coordination of the Basque social services system do not know today what EUR 90 million has been invested in the last few years. EUR 90 million for the deployment of the Basque social services system. Good. Although, let's be fair, the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy is not the only one that has a somewhat unlucky relationship with the finalist funds. From the COVID-19 fund approved by the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has been recognised, at least recognised, we do not know if it is still paid, financing from it worth 328 million euros for the first tranche and 87.23 euros for the third tranche. Although they are not conditioned, the purpose of the first tranche is to deal with health expenditure and the purpose of the third tranche is to deal with education expenditure. As can be seen from the state of implementation of the expenditure budget, neither department has seen an increase in its initial budget allocation on the same average today. I conclude my speech by making you part of the enormous concern that many women and men of Euskal Herria Bildu feel. Everything I've described so far, throughout my speech, is not an anecdote. It is another expression of those who do not believe in the Basque system of social services. The framework of the Social Services Act has been abandoned, and the consensus reached in December 2014 to deploy the system has been unilaterally broken, as, by the way, the consensus on the Basque income guarantee system was abandoned before. Unfortunately, we were never as far away as we are now from achieving a Basque system of social services of public responsibility, universal, equal coverage and equitable access. We've never been this far and it's never been so necessary. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u54	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections to the popular Basque Group-Ciudados, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. Act No. 12/2008 on social services marked a milestone in our legislation on social services, setting as a subjective right access to the various services and services that make up the Basque system of social services. However, after 12 years of operation, we can say that both their development and their ability to respond to many of the situations they faced have not met the expectations they had generated in Basque society. On the other hand, the development of this law has been very slow and many of the forecasts contained in it, to this day, have not yet been developed. And when adopting the regulations for others, they have been adopted very slowly and with lengthy processes within the Basque Government itself. In this regard, we would like to point out, once again, as we have done in many of these debates, that we believe that there has been a lack of leadership on the part of the Basque Government in promoting the regulatory development of this law and also in strengthening different services and services provided by the law. Today EH Bildu brings us an initiative in relation to the inter-institutional fund for the financing of actions related to the Basque system of social services. Without a doubt, from the People's-Citizens Coalition we understand that, in the current scenario of the incidence of the coronavirus, it is imperative, and must be an absolute priority of this Government, to proceed to the regulatory development of the Social Services Act in those aspects that are still undeveloped and, of course, to strengthen those services that are necessary, as I say, in a complicated scenario, in order to respond, above all, to the most vulnerable groups and people. The law of social service established the subjective right which was tested in 2008. And we can say, after 12 years, that the growth of that law has not been what we hoped to have been, and, from that line, we can clearly declare that the lack of Euskion's leadership in many cases has been evident. Hence, at the present moment, we think it necessary to promote the development of this law with the present situation, and at the same time to prevent the improvement of service and preparation. The Bildu initiative proposes that the Basque Government increase the inter-institutional fund for the financing of the development activities of the Basque System of Social Services, in order to reinforce the needs of municipal social services. We, while agreeing with this statement and with this specific mandate to the Basque Government, in connection with the enlargement of this inter-institutional fund, without going into a few questions about what they consider necessary to extend this fund, do believe that we have to go on a previous issue when we talk about the financing of social services, the services and services that make up the Basque system of social services. We believe that it is necessary to go to a previous question, which we have also raised, not only in this Parliament, but also in the outside institutions, in the general boards of the various historical territories, which is to urge the Basque Government already to review the Act on Contributions, in order to guarantee the financial sufficiency of the institutions which, legally, have the powers set out in the decree on the portfolio of benefits and services of the Basque system of social services of 2015. We therefore consider the revision and amendment of the Act on Contributions to be a preliminary matter, which is absolutely necessary when we talk about giving more resources to outside institutions and municipal institutions so that they can exercise the powers they have legally conferred on them under social services legislation. It is true that we consider it opportune that, while such a revision of the Act on Contributions and the coefficients of allocation of resources between the Basque Government and the outlaws, it would be opportune to extend the inter-institutional fund for the financing of the package of services and services that form the Basque system of social services. Another of the issues that we have raised in our whole amendment is something that, also, repeatedly and throughout all these years, has been calling on the Basque People's Group and that, in this case, we have included the People's-Citizens Group in our whole amendment: that the Basque Government should already assume, once and for all, the health costs incurred by the outlaws, because there are residential centres, specific services whose management competence corresponds to the outlaws, which involve health expenditure. Although there are conventions that indicate how these costs are to be paid, not all of this health expenditure is assumed. The most striking case is that of the historical territory of Álava. We therefore demand, once again, and we call on the Basque Government to already, once and for all, assume the health expenditure incurred by outside institutions in providing the social services entrusted to them. This is the whole amendment that we have tabled. We believe that it is more accurate, that it is not simply confined to the interinstitutional fund, but that we are referring to the revision and amendment of the Act on Contributions, and also to the Basque Government's assumption of this health expenditure incurred by the outside bodies, because they are assuming it. As I said, the case of the Foral de Álava is very clear, apart from the fact that, until the Act on Contributions is amended, the inter-institutional fund can be extended so that more resources can be provided to the relevant institutions. With regard to the amendments tabled, we believe, in principle, that the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party raises some issues that may be good. But we would have liked a greater commitment to the financing of the powers of outside and municipal institutions to provide the services and services entrusted to them under the portfolio decree. It is true that they speak of a number of issues that confirm that there are many outstanding subjects in this area, because the groups supporting the Government, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party are speaking in their amendment to draw up the second Strategic Plan for Social Services. They also refer to the consolidation of the inter-agency fund. It is true that they do not talk about enlargement, as the proposing group does and as we do in our amendment, which would have seemed to us much more appropriate to the current circumstances. They talk about evaluating the Cartera Decree of 2015, they talk about adopting a sustainable financing model, they talk about evaluating and completing the portfolio of benefits of the Basque social services system. I therefore believe that the issues raised in this amendment also reflect that the Basque Government, in this matter, has obviously not been as diligent as it had to have been and that many outstanding issues remain, which I hope will be addressed in this legislature, by addressing the needs and problems we have in the field of social services and which can still persist, in order to give quality attention in this area. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u56	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u57	Yes, thank you, President. As the first Strategic Plan for Social Services of the Basque Autonomous Community points out, the interinstitutional fund constitutes a formula for financial cooperation relating to the financial readjustment between Basque public administrations. The purpose of this readjustment is to ensure financial sufficiency for the provision of the catalogue of services and services of the Basque system of social services at the autonomous, foral and municipal levels. This formula is nourished by vertical coefficients of distribution between the territories through horizontal coefficients, and then each territory decides how to distribute internally what corresponds to each. In short, the design of the fund tends to be part of the model of distribution of resources between the different levels of Basque public administrations, and this fund is oriented towards less developed and new services. The Basque Socialists believe that the evaluation of the Strategic Social Services Plan is the main tool for reporting on the deployment of the Basque social services system and the provision of services and services in the catalogue to which the Fund intends to contribute. Precisely, the evaluation of the first Strategic Social Services Plan of the Basque Autonomous Community is currently being carried out, will be completed by the end of the year and will contain important recommendations to be taken into account. At the same time, the preparation of the second Strategic Plan for Social Services, which, after completion, will have to pass through the Inter-Agency Body for Social Services before final submission, could be completed by the first half of 2021. The initiative proposes that the Basque Public Finance Council be requested to increase the Inter-Agency Fund for the Financing of Development Activities of the Basque System of Social Services, as well as the extension of the objective of the Fund to cover the needs arising from COVID-19, and the same is also requested in the amendment to the whole presented by the People-Citizens Group. The amendment to the whole of the Basque Nationalist group and the Basque Socialist group contains a number of requests. The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government and other relevant institutions to: prepare this second Strategic Plan for Social Services; consolidate this inter-institutional fund for social services, with the aim of ensuring the services and services provided under the Social Services Portfolio Decree; evaluate this decree, in order to advance the planning, coordination and regulatory development of the services and services in the catalogue; adopt a model of sustainable funding agreed between the relevant institutions; and evaluate and complete the portfolio of services of the Basque social service system. I think this is the way. For my parliamentary group the consolidation of the compensation fund is important and are commitments undertaken within the government agreement signed by the Basque Nationalist group and the Basque Socialist group. All the points contained in the amendment to the whole that we have tabled are already specifically reflected in that government agreement. It is true that we must bear in mind that there are extraordinary needs arising from COVID-19, which could not be foreseen in any case, but for this we can have two ways: either to increase the amounts of the interinstitutional fund, or to think about the creation of an extraordinary fund to deal with those specific needs arising from COVID-19, since they are of an exceptional nature, and this is the way that is being introduced within the general budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community. But, in addition to this increase because of the covid, we believe that it is also important to evaluate this first Strategic Plan for Social Services, to carry out that evaluation of the portfolio decree and to adopt that model of sustainable funding agreed between all the different institutions. And that is why we are going to support our amendment as a whole in this plenary today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u58	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u59	Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. I've been informed today that it's the day of the people's caremakers. Take our warmest farewell from our legislative party. No one will deny that all human works have their lights and shadows, and likewise that in difficult times shadows are outlined. But if we wish to make an objective rating, we often regard them as safe and established, and perhaps because we take them so, we do not give enough importance to the light of these works. On the other hand, this state of pandemia, created by COVID-19, as world and society, has placed us before the mirror of our fragility and weakness. But we are vulnerable to the reason that it is the consequence of the public policies of years, which serve to provide for any argument for any subject, but that some of them may well express to Marius Benedetti, and others to Edward Galana: "Pporque creíamos todas las respuestas begina que nos clanaron todas las preguntas." We are sensible, beyond the interpretation of the reality we make, that we must face a state where we have no scientific evidence that we do not know. And it is not necessary to say, that the most severe consequences of this condition, which renders us odious, are mainly experienced by those who are in the most vulnerable condition of our society. In particular, institutions are to protect them, self-institutional institutions. And in the same way as we admit that the member of the place works well, we ought to make a similar confession to the eucalyptic system of social services. That is why, as I said on the day of the Commissioner's presentation of the parliamentary programme, we have to break a spear and how many are needed by the Basque system of social services, and more after hearing certain interventions. A system that does not exist without problems, does not exempt from reform, does not exempt from improvement, but has demonstrated and is demonstrating greater solidity than that required by the speeches of many of the political groups. A system that works well, reasonably well, and that works in this way not only because of the work and commitment of the workers. Go from here our recognition to all of them. But I say this, because as in other dilemmas that we want to face – health versus economy, etc. – we do not admit this one that is so much wanted to generalize in areas such as education, health or social system services versus workers. And they're going to allow me at this point not to compare with Spain, because we already know we're winning. Let us begin by comparing ourselves with that part of our country that is part of another state. And they'll see that we're not worse. Situation comparable to many other places in Europe. A system of social services that exists and consists of a decentralized model between the different levels of the Basque administration, and which forces us intensely to this concept of co-governance, that of inter-institutional collaboration. It must be acknowledged that this system has also its complications, by means of those concepts which seem so desirable to us all, the agreement and participation of the institutions which ought to govern, and nearest to the service of the community.... All this extends to more lengths than we would often like. But we may also say, that the fruits which this method of industry produces are stronger, better, and better. In this Arlus, we are indispensable to discerning structure and co-ion in this matter, though the co-unction be very hard and conditioned to us. For the re-defination, redimentation, and strength required by the coyunction of social services, may not prevent us from carriing the criteria which ought to be exercised, and the decisions to be made about them. Though the consequences derived from the pandemi-demia must necessarily be considered as a part of those principles and decisions. Even in financial matters. In answer to the constitution, different institutions have taken measures according to their jurisdictions and resources. For instance, I am informed that in the Gipuricum, to prevent problems caused by COVID-19 in the Department of Social Services, the estimate has been made above 10 million dollars. I'm sure it's more than that. And I am sure also that Araba and Bitaca have taken their measures, though I do not know the facts exactly, with the effort to suppose them. At the same time, the RedMorch has provided another $16 million support. I think we may say that the effects produced and produced by COVID-19 will be financed and served, as far as social services are concerned. If, on the other hand, the manufacturing funding of social services has a lasting future, it seems to us that we cannot make a totum revolutum, but only focus on the number of the essential institutions. No, if it is necessary, because the number of this substance is not to be raised, we are not opposed to the increase of the number of the substance; And we'd like to find these facts in the legislature if we'd like the I of the Social Services. They're coming from the preventive plan evaluation. And so, together with the Socialist Group, we thought it much better to offer by the hand of the road we speak of, the way the government program points, and to propose to the Chamber, as a correction. After the strategic evaluation. So what we suggested to you was this: One of the Social Services II. To perform the strategic plan, to evaluate the Decree of the Fruchus, two, 2015 Wallet, in order to advance the administration, co-ordination, and development of social services in the system of society services, co-ordination, and development; three, to assessing the euphortal system of social services, in particular, to assessing and executing the task of assistance, in order to the entrance of adults and attentions, to the establishment of the Social Services, to ensure the services and services received in the Department of Society, and to secure the model of financing, to which they have established in this area the basis of their internal resources, and the internal means of sharing in which they now supplied. We think that's the way. This, whether by correction or correction, gives us a more complete and real picture. And because the way is not the easiest in such cases, because we think we may give the most perfect fruits and conclusions. That's why we filed the corrections, and since there hasn't been too many detours, that's what he proposes you to vote the day. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u60	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mrs. González, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u61	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon to all of you congressmen. The Basque system of social services, together with the health system and education, are the great three pillars so that living well, living well, being well and being well are a possible aspiration for all the people we live in Euskadi. For Elkarrekin Podemos, our anxious Basque care system sits on these three pillars. Today, with the initiative the Collector planned, we give an opinion about the maintenance and financial system of social services, and we want to explain our position. It is obvious that the municipal leg is the one that needs the most resources and support. It's something we've known since 2016, when Ararteko turned this whole portfolio development into a report. As long as we do not pay attention to strengthening basic municipal services, we will promote territorial inequality and fail at the base of the pyramid, which is the gateway to a system we presume. It would have been important today to reach agreement on this point in the debate, because, according to the reading, it is clear to all that stable financing of social services is an outstanding issue. We have to think about how we want to finance services and who is going to finance them, because we know that the institutional plan, that of the municipalities, is always the one that gets worse. And, of course, this goes through a model of sustainable financing over time, incorporating the strengthened and increased fund and carrying out the relevant amendments to the Act on Contributions, so that the percentages are not lapsed and we address the territorial inequalities as they deserve. So, I wonder, where is the problem of not reaching an agreement on this? In this it is not possible to try to take the cat to the water, because we understand that reinforcement is necessary. And that is why we also believe it is important to seek consensus, but we also understand that the assessment of the first plan is absolutely necessary. To evaluate in order to be able to propose an increase and expansion of the same according to the new situation, what is failing and even introducing qualitative changes in the design of the municipal services. We must also see whether the pattern of attention designed is suitable or not, whether the domestic help service is adapted to the wants of the persons who tend to it, and so on. Y Contar para evalución con las opiniones del tercer secator, que tant en este ámbito. With regard to the amendment put forward by the parties that support the Government, well, they are asking that the portfolio be developed, that it be evaluated, that a model of sustainable financing be adopted, that a new plan be drawn up... Sad samarra yes. Izan ere, egin dezakete. 2008tik legezko betebeharra da, egin behar zuten eta honela jarraitzen dugu: emaitzarik gabe. On more than one occasion you have urged us to ask or demand something in Madrid, but here, without any modesty, you are presenting amendments with measures that you yourselves continue to fail to comply with, as government parties. The sad thing is that, in the strategy adopted in the face of any impulse work by the rest of the parliamentary forces, when we propose that some actions be adopted with precise timing or that the objectives be known beforehand, or to shake the department of their lethargy a little bit, then these kinds of amendments appear. Because they should already be doing this, which is reflected in their amendment. This is not an agreement to sign, in this we were all agreed. And, strange as it may be, you leave out the foundation of any reference to increase or strengthening, or to increase the basic services of development, because at the present day it is not properly planned to cover it. Of course, we share your amendment, and we will demonstrate that with our vote of abstention. But because not voting it is going against the law. I'm learning a lot from the hemerotec of this House. A great hemerotheque, just like for some a damn parliamentary hemerotheque, where agreements and answers to requests for information are collected that we are told that there is an absence of the interim evaluation of the plan and that it is not known how long the final evaluation will take. He mentions the evaluation of the portfolio, which we believe will also include the evaluation of the plan, but there is no mention of when the report will be received, and whether he is counting on the voice of the third sector. Moreover, they refuse to advance any kind of information in this regard. Tarteko ebaluaziarekin geratatzen den gauza bera gertatuko da horrekin? Oraindik ere horren zain jarraitzen dugu, planak aurreikusten zituen urteko txostenekin bezala. At the beginning of 2019 Elkarrekin Podemos submitted a request for information on the degree of compliance with the strategic plan, it was 2019, when there was no covid and they had a whole year ahead to carry out this task, and they said in their reply, among other things: "At this time – it was February 13, 2019, the date of the response – the interinstitutional working group is finalizing a work prior to the completion of the interim evaluation report". We submitted another request for information in July 2019, and the answer came in September 2019: "We still do not meet the deadlines to submit the mid-term evaluation...". And reluctantly, some data was coming forward. When you asked about the information you collected regarding specific lines – even if there was not the full report, something should have happened – then they answered that getting to do that was complex, that was not realistic. Well, a phrase, worthy example of Ozores' technical stuttering gags on TV. They agreed that the plan's evaluation system wasn't realistic, and that it was up to 2019, and that we should meet with the new teams. That was said in September 2019. How many months did 2019 have for you? How could you not address that in September? They also point out that the strategic plan is a living instrument subject to change and that its implementation depends on everyone and everyone. Well, look how unlived it is that we don't know how it is or what its development has been. As the chorus says, "one for another, the house without barrier." That's what we're doing. 2020's bad luck. Ez dago tarteko ebaluaziorik, ezta finalik era. Eta ez will say I hope to be. Zertan jokatzen in the race? I remember above the third transitional provision of the 2018 Law; it says, among other things: "the corresponding financial adjustment between Basque public administrations will be made in order to ensure financial sufficiency at the autonomous, foral and municipal level". He also said that under no circumstances could it lead to a decrease in the levels of intensity and coverage of services and services. Do you dare to put your hand in the fire to say that since 2008 there has been no decrease in the services and services we had then? And, above all, why do we continue with a fund that for three years has the same amount, even knowing that it is insufficient? And why is only mention made in its last point to the attention of the elderly? And the rest of the services that are planned for target populations when will it be time to prioritize, evaluate and culminate for them? For the care of women, children, the homeless, adolescents who reach the age of 18 without being able to emancipate, the transit population, single-maritime families. Finally, I stress once again that we all agree that the new strategic plan must reflect the development of the portfolio decree and a new funding model. But how long will it take us to admit that what we have now is no good, because, in fact, we find that the municipalities do not have the required funding? And the bold evaluation to make a new plan must be performed by the good and the participants, and especially for the real. Let it be done, and, of course, this evaluation should be about to present itself in this Chamber, because the situation has changed. How long and at the cost of how many lives? Because the time that passes is cut in life expectancy for many people and we are at the time of deciding whether we will continue to conform to the management of poverty and exclusion or bet to end it. Our vote, since there is no compromise agreement, will be abstention, because we remain the same, in a position of immobility. If we don't have the evaluation, there's nothing to do. And here, once again, we will remain dependent on you wanting to delay one, two, seven months, three years. If we do not build on the new needs identified, we cannot address the deployment of a portfolio that was the minimum from which to leave, not the maximum to which to aspire. So, if we keep this up, we'll keep failing. Please move from the immobile point where you are, please, because it is urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. In answer time, Mr. Rodriguez, you've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Let us talk, in these five minutes of the turn of reply at least, both about the content of the axes that will spill over the proposal that we have put forward Euskal Herria Bildu, and about some discursive elements to refute the proposal that my group has made. About the amendment, about occupation and concern, or concern and occupation. Of course, the amendment is a Control+C–Control+V, copy and paste, no longer from the government program, which is available, but from the agreement for the PNV-PSE government program. So much so that, in fact, there was an error in the original text that has not even been corrected, because there was a repetition of a proposal in the paragraphs: the evaluation of the portfolio. That hasn't even been corrected in the copipega. But, having said that, let us make a brief analysis of the three elements that will be dealt with. For that, let's talk about John Locke and the shallow table, Mr. Aiartza, how the materials of reason and knowledge are the experience, and what the experience tells us, both of the strategic plan, as well as of the fund, and of inter-institutional collaboration. Let us therefore begin with the strategic plan. The most serious thing, which has already appeared in the rostrum, is that there is no mid-term evaluation of the strategic plan and there was no mid-term evaluation in the second half of 2007, for reasons that we are still not aware of. But the mid-term evolution of the strategic plan is very relevant, because it is not limited to monitoring the objectives of the system as a whole, it was a tool that was going to update the objectives of the system as a whole by 1 January 2020. And that has blinded the system, because the strategic plan set clear targets on 1 January 2017, which had to be evaluated and revised, if any, to set the targets on 1 January 2020. Therefore, the Basque system of social services, because the intermediate evaluation was not made for reasons that are unknown – I have a hypothesis, but time will have to discuss it –, has been walking for three years without a road map, very consistent with the lack of coordination and direction. We could continue to talk more about the strategic plan and the absence of the strategic plan, because the strategic plan they bring back here was the same assessment they anticipated in the 2016-2020 government agreement, which is back in the 2020-2024 agreement. I mean, you remind me, in terms of the development and the degree of compliance with the Strategic Social Services Plan, of the administrator we all have in our neighborhood community, who at this board explains very well why he has not managed to solve the issues that he was already going to solve at the previous board and they were going to be resolved for this board, and you go easy and go back to the next board and there follow the same unsolved issues, but he goes back to explaining very well why they are not resolved and why they will be resolved at the next board, and so one board and another board and another board and another board. On the merits, in relation to the strategic plan, do they really understand the relationship between the fund and the strategic plan? Because the definition, both of the substance and the amount, was not the result of a technical calculation, but of a political negotiation, of a political negotiation that defined the terms of the tool and its amount. Moreover, I can tell you that the amount was closed hours before the meeting to approve the portfolio decree; hours earlier, in a bilateral negotiation between the Aburto councillor and the Gipuzkoa Foreign Ministry. Because when the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council proposed that this fund should reach 300 million euros, 300 million euros only for investments, the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council had only the support of the Alava Provincial Council, because the Basque Nationalist Party opposed it, and, finally and under pressure that there was no portfolio decree, a minimum agreement was reached. That is the origin of the fund, which is a tool that was born out of a political agreement. It has been said that in a system where so many administrations are involved, it is complex for the system to move forward, for decisions not to be delayed. I am surprised, because it is not because you have gathered much of the institutional body of social services. The rules of the Inter-Agency Authority for Social Services say that it has to meet quarterly, once every three months.How many times did the previous legislature bring it together, until February, when the House was dissolved? Three times throughout the legislature, so it will not be that the deployment of the Basque social services system has been delayed by inter-institutional working meetings. Finally, it is not a question of everything or nothing, that Mr Aiartza was telling us. It's not all or nothing, but in that whole or nothing disjunctive, today's yours is nothing again, as it was nothing last Thursday and the previous and the previous and the previous and the previous. The best recognition they can make to the Basque system of social services is to improve its financing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u64	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. The representative of Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u65	With your permission, I'll take it from the seat. Indeed, with the support of the Foral Diputación de Álava, at that time governed by the People's Party. We make clear our commitment to the beginning of the course of this law, not only with the beginning, but with the development of the law, adopting important instruments that could contribute to that development and give effect to the provisions of the law in relation to the services and services covered by it. I just wanted to tell Mr. Urrutia that I would let go of self-congratulation. I think it is good to be able to make a thorough assessment at this time after 12 years of the existence of an absolutely essential law, which, as I said before, configures access to the services and services of the Basque system of social services as a subjective right. That assessment must be made in order to know where the deficits are, where there are still things outstanding, and, above all, to deal with a complicated situation, with rigorous criteria and with a thorough analysis of that situation, in order to be able to address, as I said, a complicated scenario with the measures that are relevant and, above all, to develop and implement those instruments that have not been put in place today. You yourselves have recognized a revision of the Residential Centers Decree, when the last legislature did not see it. A decree that was passed and will be reviewed shortly after its adoption. You know that the inspection service, the inspection work in the social services, provided for in the 2008 law, which has not yet been developed, is still pending. You know that there are outstanding issues such as assessments or the mid-term evaluation to which the spokesman for EH Bildu referred. You know that, indeed, there are imbalances between the different territories, as has also been reflected in the debate today, possibly because the point of origin of the three outlaws was different. But after 12 years of law enforcement, we still have substantial differences in quite important aspects. And I think that there the Basque Government, sincerely, has lacked leadership, which is why I was telling him about self-congratulation, because I think that sometimes we have to put it aside a little bit and do a modest self-criticism of what has been done over all these years. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u66	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u67	Yes, from the seat, President. Well, as I pointed out in my first speech, what is included in the amendment as a whole is commitments made within the government agreement that are already being implemented. In my first speech, I have already pointed out that the evaluation of the first Strategic Plan is about to be completed and will be completed by the end of this year, and that the preparation of this second Strategic Social Services Plan has already begun, with which we will count next year. And, of course, Mr Rodriguez, we are well aware of the difference between the Strategic Plan and the Fund. We defend it, we defend this fund, as you have rightly pointed out. We have tried to reach agreement within this amendment, but we have not been able to agree on a compromise amendment. We believe that what is contained in our amendment to the whole is much more complete and, therefore, we are going to defend it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u68	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Alderdi Popularreko bozeramailearekin hasiko naiz. You said in your first speech that we, in our amendment, were talking about consolidating the interinstitutional fund and not increasing it. And I believe that, in my first speech, I wanted to make it clear that we are not against increasing that inter-institutional fund, that consolidation is about framing that inter-institutional fund into a sustainable funding system, and that in order to know whether we need to provide that inter-institutional fund with more money, first of all, we will have to see, from the evaluation of the first Strategic Plan – which we hope will shortly be in this House – what are the needs to properly provide that inter-institutional fund. Then the consolidation of the inter-agency fund as part of the funding system and the increase in its endowment are absolutely compatible. And then you were talking about self-congratulation. They always blame us for the same thing. And it turns out that I have acknowledged here that the Basque system of social services is not free of problems or reform needs. I have recognized that the working method of inter-institutional collaboration, many times, well, extends and is long and tedious, even for those who have to manage it, for all. I've recognized that sort of thing. I don't know where it looks... What must be done so that one does not consider it self-congratulation? Because you yourself have recognized then that we have had some turn on the subject of the residence decree, if I have not misunderstood you. Then, where is self-congratulation? To the representative of Podemos: I agree that it would have been desirable to reach an agreement. I agree, but, man, it is not you who are in the best position to say so, because, in order to reach agreement, the tool in the parliamentary game is usually the presentation of amendments, and you have not done so. We, on the other hand, have offered the government program. Perhaps there are those who consider this immobile, but, in this parliamentary game, when one presents the amendment, he presents it to mark his position – it is obvious – but it is also the starting point from which it is negotiated. And we have offered them, with the approval and acceptance of the Government itself, the government program. And it turns out that this, well, was considered, you know, self-complacent, immobile. You'll find out what adjective you deserve. As for increasing funding, we didn't say we're against increasing the fund. What we say is, that if the foundation should be increased, it must be increased, but first of all, from the evaluation from the first Plant of Social Services, which ought to be found in this legislature. Then there's one thing that's left me... Well, he says they're going to abstain in our amendment, because our thing is to comply with the law. Man, what do you do with the abstention? Is the law set aside or...? Well, if it's law enforcement, if it's law enforcement, you vote for it. Gero, Rodriguez jaunarena: beast bost minutu beharko nituzke. Hasan hasan gave Erkoreka jaunari who will be the only one who will hear the constructive contribution. I have never doubted the constructive desire of anyone, nor, absolutely, therefore, the nobility in any kind of initiative, ever, ever. You may be, I'm not. I've never doubted that. And let him know that the only constructive contributions are not his. They say we're far from the people. What is it to be close to the people? Walk around EH Collect? All those teams in EH Collect's sociology? Going around that environment? What is it to keep away from the people? A proposition as well as a comment can be made as a category. What is it? This, perhaps, would deserve another law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u70	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u71	Yeah. Tono apocalyptic to suggest: the only thing that's missing is to add the institutional fund. I don't know how to use the tone and the proposal I made.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u72	Thank you, Mr. Faraway.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u73	...they come from very hands. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u74	Thank you. Together, Mrs. Podemus-IU, Mrs. González, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u75	I'll be out of the hall. Well, I am not going to reiterate what we have already commented on on percentages and targets that need to be re-evaluated and that will respond to a certain situation. I agree with Mrs Garrido that the government lacks leadership. Or maybe there's some kind of interest in leadership. As for the proposals put forward by the representative of the Socialist Party: well, very well, we listen to and accept all those commitments that are committed to moving forward. And especially what he said that the evaluation would be by the end of this year. And I say the same thing again before, that is, I hope we don't have to go back to the hemerotheque to see if this is done or not. And please, for the new plan, count on the third sector. Mr Urrutia, well, I don't know where to start, but in principle I believe that the blank vote has a political connotation, the blank vote, the abstention, has an important political connotation. And I think it was clear at the beginning of my speech why we should abstain. Because, really, bringing some things into this House is a debate that has no end. That is, when evaluations had to have been made and presented in form and time, they have not been submitted. So, being here again talking and saying, "Why aren't we moving forward with the social service system?". Because we haven't evaluated it. Can we say that it is better than that of the Spanish State, can we say that it is better than that of Europe? If we haven't evaluated it, if we don't have the results of those evaluations, how can we be saying this? That it works reasonably well. Have we evaluated it? Do we have all the data to know that that's true? Is it that if there is no evaluation, what steps are we going to take forward, backward, one side or another to improve it? It's true that when we thought we had all the answers, they changed our questions. And that's where we're back here. I just want to tell you that either we develop a feminist care model and focus on comprehensive care for people and we come to the same agreement that was reached when the first plan was set up or we go wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Now that the dispute has ended, we shall vote with the original text of the proposition as well as the EH Collector. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; 75; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 42; the rivals are 10.12; white is 0.1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u77	So it's not accepted. Next up to the popular Basque Group-Ciudadnos. The first point is on the one side and the second and the third on the other side. We'll vote for the first point of the full correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting were 43; 75; the supporters, 6; the contrary, 63; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u78	So, this is not the first point to be accepted. Next, we vote for the second and the third points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 42; the contrary is the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u79	So the second and the third points have not been accepted. Next, we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists and the Eucabertarians. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes given, 75; 41; the contrary, 22; the 10th, the 10th; the white, and the white;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u80	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal of the Community-Populary of the Euscals, as made by the parliamentary band of Céranos, concerning the plea of violence against women. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs Garrido, representing Ciudadanos, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u81	Thank you, Mrs. President. President, chief of departments, good morning again. Violence against women, as we all know, is one of the most serious, devastating, persistent and widespread violence throughout the world. It affects all women without distinction, women of any race, anywhere in the world, of any social class. It is one of the worst violences, because it affects the innermost nucleus of women. On most occasions, unfortunately, this violence is suffered in silence, and, moreover, sometimes this violence against women affects not only women, but also their own children living together in the family environment. Gender-based violence, therefore, is a social reality that is there, that persists in our society, in spite of the different actions that are promoted from different public administrations, and undoubtedly requires a collective effort, an important collective effort, which is incumbent on all public administrations and, obviously, on the Basque Government. The priority is to support those women who want to get out of this situation, from that hell, not only by giving them protection and support, but also by promoting prevention and awareness-raising efforts and, in the field of education, by promoting education in values. In short, not only must these women be supported to file a complaint; they must also be supported later when they need concrete protection measures. And we must focus on issues that have to do with awareness-raising and prevention and with education in values, respect, coexistence and respect for personal and individual development. The Equality of Women and Men Act 2005 regulates in chapter 7 what has to do with violence against women. The Basque Government, the past legislature, committed itself in its legislative calendar to forward the bill for the re-education of violence against women for the third quarter of 2018. There were many initiatives discussed in this House, many of them led by the People's Party, most of them in relation to the Basque Government's concrete commitment to forwarding this bill. I also had the opportunity to ask Lehendakari about this issue, and beyond, of course, his commitment, which we have never questioned, Mr Lehendakari, we have to say that we regret that this bill in the end was not a specific bill for the re-education of violence against women, but that it was decided – we respect that decision by the Basque Government – to amend the Equality Act. It was adopted in the Governing Council on 28 January and, therefore, with the dissolution of the House, no opportunity was given for its processing in this Parliament. We have therefore considered it opportune to present this new initiative and to urge the Basque Government to refer, as soon as possible, the draft law amending the Act on Equality of Women and Men regulating the eradication of violence. It is evident that genus power is a reality, and demands a collective effort between us all. Different administrations are involved, and we're conducting this request to the Basque Mitch and this very specific proposal. It is the priority, as I have said, that these women should be protected from this situation. To do this, it is essential to give intelligent, efficient, and integrated attention. In the same way, it is necessary to strengthen measures in certain areas in the sense of sensibilization, prevention, and education. During the preceding law, Müller was engaged to send away a bill of law to destroy violence against women, and he didn't keep it. For all that has been said, as I have said, we present another proposal of the law. The parliament demands that he send it as soon as possible to change the law of law for the equality of women and men to resist violence against women. We've agreed to a deal with the Basque Jeltza Party and the Social Party, and I think it's a good deal. This is the case with an agreement which we tried in the preceding law, the 13th of June, 2019. We hope that the President is here, taking advantage of the fact that he is here, now as soon as possible, to test this project in the corresponding organ and bring it to the legislature. Let us hope, Mr Lehendakari, that now, after the mandate of 13 June 2019 to which he referred and various questions raised in this House, the commitment to forward the bill amending the Law on Equality of Women and Men with a specific reference and concrete regulation of the eradication of violence against women will be fulfilled this time. I shall now comment on the amendments tabled to this initiative. With regard to Podemos, we regret that you did not join the agreement, when you also refer to the referral of that bill. But you are talking about activating a participatory process that we, from the People-Citizens group, understand is already over. Obviously, the process was completed when the Basque Government passed a bill to amend the Equality Act in the Governing Council. Therefore, we believe that this phase is already more than surpassed. You speak after fulfilling budgetary questions, which I understand are your responsibility, because you were the ones who supported the budget. We have therefore not understood why you too incorporate them into this initiative in your amendment as a whole, when it was a very concrete initiative. With regard to the Vox amendment, well, I believe that this is the speech that you are making at national level, but I would say to the spokesman for Vox, of the Joint Group, that our initiative is something very concrete; I think that you cannot be against a commitment by the Government that has been left unfulfilled by the past legislature and, of course, I think it is important that we have a new regulation to tackle the problem, which unfortunately still persists in our society, of violence against women. I thank the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Party for their willingness, and I thank Mrs Sánchez and the spokesman for the Nationalist Party for their willingness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u82	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, together the representative of the Podemos-IU, Mrs. González, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u83	Good afternoon again. Like the cry of those who have no voice, like the woman killed yesterday in Palma victim of the macho violence, like the 39 women who have been murdered by their partners or ex-partners in 2020 throughout the State, like the 1,072 in the State since 2003... I would like to send from here a warm embrace and affectionate greeting to all your families, friends and support networks, and, moreover, to say all that remains for us to do and to shout so that this will not be repeated again. Emakumeen aurkako indarkeria gizarte-gatazka bat da, éta, horren aurrean, ekintza premiazkoa da, gure giza eskubideen urraketa dellako, bizitza horretan doakigulako. We have clear diagnoses of where the failures in the system are for not having managed to arrive in time or avoid possible revictimizations. This century is advancing and the effective equality of women in our society is a challenge that cannot wait any longer. In recent years, the Euskadi feminist movement has taken unprecedented momentum, bringing life to the centre of political priorities and demonstrating that Euskadi deserves to be built from feminism and be a feminist country. Gogoan izan behar dugu duela urtebete, Euskal Herriko mugimendu feministak deituta, Durangon 3,000 emakume bildu ginela: baserritarrak, ikasleak, sindikalistak, zaintzaileak, aktibistak. Hiru egunez eztabaidatu genuen emakume gisa eragiten diguten errornkei age errorality of buruz, horien artean indarkeria matxistak disagerazteko errornkari buruz. And we were asked where we have to go and what we should collect in the public policies we propose from here. It's been over a year. From Elkarrekin We have been working with this same determination for four years to bring Basque institutions up to the height of the times and the movement that sustains us. But there's still a lot of work to be done, and we can't wait. We have already passed waiting for the entire legislature past the preliminary draft law that has not yet arrived. It is now up to us to strengthen what we have, to promote direct actions that, even with the current law, would serve to broaden and improve the care of victims of sexist violence. This is a common starting point in this House, but we do not quite understand the compromise amendment that they bring us. We regret that a dynamic like the view in the previous point appears to be in place, which again affects the momentum and control of the policies that correspond to the Department of Counsellor Artolazabal. Gobernuak beer gobernu-programan sartuta dagoena Egypt bath offeredzen ez two offeren original battik abiatzen race. In particular, he should have done something that he should have already done in accordance with the government programmes of previous legislatures, and is seconded from the parties that make up the government. Indeed, sit back and wait for the agreements to be implemented alone. They have confronted us in this House that we are not happy with the announcements of the measures and work that the government program contains. Believe me, we would be very happy that two weeks from November 25 they would bring here the preliminary draft law on which to work, tomorrow. And we would be even more pleased if their debate were complemented by a debate in parallel with the proposals that the feminist movement has for the approach to Machist violence. What we're not happy about is staying and waiting. We need prevention, we need to reach all victims, because not all suffer the same violence. We need effective redress for the violence experienced. We need memory. Joana Etxano mentioned at the Eraikiz Memorial Days last week that it is necessary to build our social memory from feminism, because it means laying the basis for not reproducing violent facts, and that for this it is necessary to work together with women and collectives. The Pandemia is not over, and we know that the segregation of motion implies violence against women. The house is not safe for a lot of women, never. But still less in the pandema. And I'm not saying it, the Equality in Pandemic Times report says it. But we must also recognize the networks of support and solidarity that have been created in neighbourhoods, towns and cities, so that confinement does not lead to social isolation from people in vulnerable situations. With the descalation, and according to Emakunde data, there had been a 3.5% increase in complaints in September, 210 more women than in the previous period. This is also supported by the macro-survey developed by the Ministry of Equality. Is it really enough to stay and wait for a new bill to come along? Can we really not work from now on to ensure the functioning of the care services for cases of male violence? The fight against gender-based violence requires the adoption and development of multidisciplinary approaches that will lead to progress in guaranteeing women's rights. And this is only done from policies that address macho violence as structural violence, with budgets, with sufficient resources, with real commitments, because, whether they want to admit it or not, it is necessary to overcome continuity and unlock the lack of resources. We must redouble our efforts, we must have more residential resources, more economic measures that guarantee us independence and freedom. The absence of economic means is also violence. We want human security in the face of punitiveist security. They propose that we confine ourselves to implementing agreements that did not refer to budgetary commitment. Agreements we have and many; 14 of those agreements were proposed by my group, imagine if we support them. But excuses, too. No, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic is not the excuse not to address macho violence. Indeed, the pandemic is the framework for better, more effectively and urgently addressing it. And the figures speak for themselves: 30 women killed in 10 years, 30. Every day 15 women are assaulted, 15; each year 3,098 are assaulted by their partners, 899 are assaulted by men around them. By the last report of the offering, 48% of the women who suffer violence at home have not appealed to the police or to the court or to the aid services. That is why, in the light of the original proposal from the People's Group, we are presenting an amendment which seeks to achieve progress on specific lines of action and which includes budgetary commitments that we already had, regardless of whether it could then be improved, because it seems to us that the draft reform of the law is short. Our amendment was clear in that regard. It was very important for us that 100% of the measures in that agreement should be complied with. Hona ekarri dugu betetzea gogorarazteko. Zuzenketan neurriak aipatu ditugu. Beast... What is not named does not exist. Although it seemed long in the amendment to mention all the points. With the compromise amendment that they have arrived at and with the excuse of the pandemic, it seems that they are allowing everything to be postponed, and we believe that there is insufficient assurance that these agreements will be implemented. Perhaps your proposal to comply with the budgetary arrangements of the last parliamentary term can be interpreted as also driving these measures, but that, at best, and seeing them come. But our fear is that this is not going to be the case, and that is not going to be the case because we have already experienced this situation, because in June 2019, at the end of the legislature, we were acknowledging that the agreements on macho violence of much of the previous legislature had not been complied with. Since our amendment is not going to be voted on, I would like to recall the announcement of the increase in the budget made by the adviser in the committee's appearance, and I say announcement We would like to conclude by recalling that we are not going to stop working for the improvement of the protection and prevention of sexist violence and, to their regret, the priority on the agenda for the fight against violence is being achieved thanks to the fact that the feminist movement is building the framework of analysis, the theoretical frameworks, the proposals for attention, the alternatives for reparation and is also denouncing the patriarchal bias of justice when these cases are judged. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u85	Good morning. In Vox we are convinced that violence has no gender. We believe that it is an ideological law that does not seek to help women, but rather to promote a false gender war that does not help women who are victims of ill-treatment or other victims regardless of their sex. It fills us all when we talk about defending women who suffer from the violence of their partners. We all defend the abused woman from different prisms. But, gentlemen, renounce the unique thought: the essence of our society is based on plurality. Many of you wish to end the diversity of ideologies that coexist in democracy. And it bears witness to this the great effort they make to demonize those who do not think in the same way; they insult us and condemn us to ostracism. You are politicizing the abuse of women, something absolutely unworthy. They use women victims of ill-treatment for their own political benefit. Large budget lines are allocated annually to eradicate this social scourge. And, curiously, more and more women are suffering from it every day. You haven't wondered why? Let us draw some conclusions. Of the budget items, how much money does it actually reach the victims? Just a tiny percentage. The bulk of the money remains in ideological entanglements, which have nothing to do with helping women and filling grateful stomachs. Evildoers and murderers serve ridiculous penalties, making it impossible to root out the violent situation. They are presented as great bulwarks of violence against women, of the defense of the weak who, in your opinion, must perform the left, but what happens to other groups within the home, such as children and the elderly? A mother who kills her son, what kind of violence is it? A daughter who mistreats an old father, what kind of violence is it? A woman who kills her same-sex partner, what kind of violence is it? What kind of violence is this? Indeed, honourable Members, violence has no gender. Add Vox and condemn all kinds of violence. Let's eradicate domestic violence. Let's make a law of domestic violence. In that sense, we enjoyed hearing from the counselor about domestic violence the other day: that's the way. I have lived very closely a case of this nature, and I can confirm it: the feeling of abandonment is total, total and painful. Pain that was increased by seeing the mastodontic budget headings that are allocated as aid to women. An ill-treated woman, any victim of domestic violence, needs a guarantee of security: that the ill-treated person does not get out of jail. She needs peace: that her children stay with her and not fear for her survival and those of her children. It needs support: financial aid that will allow it to rebuild its life without dependencies. In conclusion, he needs an integral plan to be able to remake his life. The law must guarantee equality. The State must seek to protect the weakest, regardless of whether the abusive scoundrel is male or female. However, what is the reality? Far from having an effective protection system, we have a set of individuals who spend resources that would make it possible to effectively protect victims by giving courses without any support, based on foundations such as empowering And, finally, there's no gender-based violence, there's all kinds of violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u86	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u87	Yeah. Thank you, President. The proposer group has put forward an initiative requesting that the bill amending Act 4/2005 on equality of women and men and the eradication of gender-based violence be referred to the Basque Parliament as soon as possible. It is important to note that this commitment has been made in the same terms by the Basque Government, both in the government agreement signed between the Basque Nationalist group and the Basque Socialist group, and in the appearance of the Councillor for Equality, Justice and Social Policy, on 26 October, so that this initiative would not be necessary in order to reflect that commitment made by the Basque Government before this Basque Parliament. In presenting the objectives of the legislature, the councillor, Ms. Artolazabal, noted that equality is a priority objective of the country, and therefore pledged to promote a country pact for equality and a life free from violence against women. He expressed his confidence that this Parliament would swiftly approve the amendment of the Law on Equality of Women and Men. The current law was passed 15 years ago. This equality law was considered a pioneer, and even for its implementation, it received the first prize for Public Service by the United Nations, in 2015. But, in spite of this, we want to change it, because of the need to strengthen equality policies and work for the eradication of macho violence, adapting ourselves to the new needs and challenges arising from the new social context and from the progress envisaged both in the Istanbul Convention and in the United Nations 2030 Agenda or in the State Pact against Gender Violence. One of the major challenges of our law is to ensure a vision of the location of violence against women within the systemic and universal problem of the inequality of women and men, as noted in the Istanbul Convention. And he undertook to update, with the coordination of Emakunde, the interinstitutional agreement to improve care for women victims of male violence. The new legislation will establish the need to adapt the inter-agency response to male-based violence to ensure the right of all victims to comprehensive, free, accessible and quality care. Making this new law effective – the adviser said – will be one of the priorities of the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy and, of course, of the Basque Institute for Women-Emakunde. And it cannot be otherwise, because if we talk about gender-based violence, we talk about human rights violations, a multidimensional structural problem on the basis of which there is a lack of equality. The compromise is clear and has been extensively discussed. Of course, we reject from the point of view approaches that have been presented to this initiative, coming from the Vox Joint Group, which says that it is against gender-based violence, and then ask that the Gender Violence Act be repealed, because they consider that this law entails discrimination against a sex. You also remind me of the negators of the pandemic; there are victims, there are citizens in the ICUs, people die, but there are negators who are causing intolerable disturbances. For you, too, do not see that the law of gender violence does what it does to protect women, who are the ones who suffer from gender violence and those who suffer from that inequality in their homes, and even are killed by their abusers. And, by the way, they are calling for the elimination of aid to associations that help victims, and so they will probably be more alone in their protection. After this approach, saying that they defend the protection of victims of gender-based violence sounds more or less like a joke. On the other hand, the Elkarrekin group We can, in its amendment to the whole, ask for two things: that the draft law amending Law 4/2008 be referred as soon as possible, but that a participatory process be carried out first. But we must not forget that this participatory process is already being carried out. It is precisely one of the reasons why the equality bill has been delayed to this Basque Parliament, that this participatory process has been drawn up quite broadly. And, in addition, another cause that delayed the coming of that law was the debate between whether we had to have a single law, the law of equality, with regard to gender-based violence, or two different laws were needed. And precisely because of this participation, it was concluded that a single law was better wanted where both equality and gender-based violence were collected. So, that participatory process has already been carried out. To ask that we do again all he does is delay in time the coming, at once, of the equality bill, which is what we want. It was there, it had entered the House, Parliament, at the end of the parliamentary term, and what we want is for it to come as soon as possible and for this debate to be started again here. Because once a law comes, Mrs Gonzalez, you already know that a period of appearances is opened, you again listen to the appearances requested by the different parliamentary groups: we will have that participation there. It is that the other participation that you ask for is already done, and I think it is unnecessary right now. It also calls on the Elkarrekin Group to refer as soon as possible a report on the implementation of the 15 measures proposed in the budget agreement. But, on the one hand, there are still two months left for the end of the year, and in these two months a greater number of measures can be implemented. On the other hand, you have the means to be able to ask for information about compliance. The EH Bildu Group has not tabled an amendment. So what we are asking you to do is to vote in favour of our amendment, because it reflects this commitment made to bring the above-mentioned bill to this Parliament as soon as possible. Gender-based violence has no place in the society we aspire to be or in the democracy we want to consolidate. Eliminating it from our lives and protecting victims is not an option, it is an obligation. Our parliamentary group is always committed to working towards full equality between men and women, and will never accept approaches that, far from moving forward, want us to step back. That is why, although it is a commitment already made by the Government, we have made an effort to reach a compromise amendment with the People-Citizens group, which states that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to refer this bill as soon as possible. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u88	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good noon to everyone. I'd like to make my statement today based on three glances. First of all, the present: What's happening now. The violence against women is a primary goal for you to disappear. And the change of the law of equality is another step in this direction, because it makes an important step for equality, and makes a great difference in politics contrary to the machista of violence. One of our romances is to strengthen the social police, and to adapt them to the new necessities of the new regulating and social context. There's the Word of Istanbul, 2030 Age, the Common-wealth Confederate of Violence... The change of law ensures the view which reveals violence against women and the inequality of men within a sysistemic and universal problem. And economic means of development of the policy of equality, even anticipates the strengthening of human resources and technical resources. Although some people here believe that it is the thing of some bad men and women, and that we are in the presence of something to be regulated by common justice, reality is another, señora Martíne, la realidad es ostra. The matist violence has the genus: feminine. Women are murdering for women. And this must be very clear: that violence against women is a radical expression, the most important expression of the difference between women and men. And we can't put this on. And we're talking about a violation of human rights, a multiple-dimensional, structureal problem. And on the basis of that there is lack of equality. Loud and clear. It is essential to consider the necessary change of value in order to contribute to the construction of a society of equality without violence against women. This is the situation we're living in today. The chairman of the Erkora department gave the same information: Between 2002 and 2018 years, 46 women have been murdered in Basques. In 2019, since the first official counts began, the former couple or fellow-friend did not murder a woman in Euskadin. But this year, unfortunately, on the 11th of March, Abanton, his partner killed a woman and killed her daughter also. And some of the people we're here today were there once more, to denounce such actions and support the family of the victims. And we will continue in this, accusing the situation, condemning murder, and also forcing change in the value of society. And here, in this legislature, the policy of equality promotes, whether in prevention or prevention. Even the Vice President Erkoe said: "We must keep working that the marker of the dead must be zero again." We have to protect all the victims. From the very beginning, until there are no victims. Mindfulness and prevention, our aim is to destroy the machiist violence from the roots. In this legislation we must continue to work, yes, continue. We'll look back now. Because it's important, too, to look back. First of all, then, where did we start? Where do we go from? The first step is the process that Emakunde started to identify the needs and challenges facing our country in relation to violence against women, with a view to legislative intervention, within our framework, was to visualize where we were going from. In this regard, it should be noted that the Basque Country has a good basis for this legislative intervention. Euskadi has been and is a focal point in the development of equality policies, including those relating to the prevention and elimination of violence against women. This is demonstrated by the fact that these policies are considered good practices and are of interest to both international bodies and other countries and regions. These policies have been underpinned by a solid framework. No one here is waiting for the new to come. Here we don't start from scratch, we already have a long way to go. We have many milestones that can prove it. We have, on the one hand, the Equality Act 2005. In addition to being a law awarded by the United Nations, it was a pioneering law because it places the eradication of violence against women within the framework of equality policies, as I said at the beginning of my intervention. And this was a good thing. And it has also become a sign of the identity of our equality policies. Another one of the achievements, what was it? Articulate a wide network of care resources for victims and survivors of violence: health, police, legal, psychosocial, economic, reception, labor, housing... resources offered by municipalities, by the deputies, by the Government, according to the distribution of competence, coordination, the Karlana So we don't start from scratch. We're not waiting for nothing to rain from the sky. We've been working a lot, a lot of time here in Euskadi. "Mama had accepted the law of violence against women during the law which had passed between her commitments. Mrs. Sánchez explained why it was not possible to accept this parliament at that moment: there was no time. But he developed a rich and generous part of the process, which gives value to the text which is to present in this legislature. All the political parties of the legislature expressed the necessity of it in several instances, and we discussed it in form, and agreed that the conformity of equality to the law was the best of all. And since this engagement was made, a process was opened from the Election, first of all, to identify challenges, and then to determine which of them can be treated here, Euskadein, within the limits of our jurisdiction. So the columns are set, and they're strong. And it may be said that we have guarantees to continue building the response to the previous institutions of violence against women. The text of the bill of legislation to change the law received the approval of the Election Committee in January 2020. El compromiso con la rabbiacion de la violencia machsta de este Gobierno es firme. Se debe seguir avanzando, adecuando constantiente layes, los servicios y protolos estableides. So, what do we do now? It's time to look at the future. Equality is a country's priority objective and, consistent with this objective, a country pact for equality and a life free from violence against women will be promoted. Sailburu Artolazabal said it, great challenges that we were told during his last appearance. I have little time and, therefore, I am not going to extend here. But, well, they are the great challenges of a new law to ensure a vision of the location of violence against women within the systemic and universal problem of the inequality of women and men. Therefore, implementing this new law will be one of the priorities of this Government, of my group, Euzko Abertzaleak, of the Basque Socialist Group and, I am sure, of all the political groups that we make up this parliamentary arc, or so I would like it to be, of course. I stress the commitment of the Department of Equality, Human Rights and Justice to launch in this legislature, for example, the observatory on equality of women and men and violence against women. Since I haven't had enough time to finish: We signed a middle-way correction, as Mrs Garrido said, with Popular Group. And I thank him for his honesty in bargaining. It was a precise demand, the original initiative was extremely exact: To bring the bill of legislation to change the equality of the law. This bill of legislation is ready, cultivated, studied, will soon be brought between us, probably in November, this month, the bill will pass through the Government Council, and we shall be able to examine it in this attic, and we shall be able to do our contributions. And I am certain that we will all give the best of our power to agree and accept the best law as we can, because we owe it to our society, because we owe it to the victims' families. The limits of equality are the things that unite us, and not those which separate us. And not only are we very glad of it, but it fills me with hope, which is so different from its starting-point, that we share the goal, and because we must act together when this message is publicized. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. It's your word, Mrs. Houseboy, who doesn't run the corrections, the representative of the EH Collect team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u91	Thank you, all good noon. Men who are competent in the law express that a law should prosper, and that this law ought to supply two wants or two premises, in order that it may function properly. One of them is a political commitment. This commitment would suggest that we have a well-developed, highly provided law of economic and institutional order. And the other would be the need of a society that will cultivate the law and make it its own. That is to say, to understand that he has a right to declare the rights given him by that law. Based on these two needs, we were continually employed in the legislation passed, especially in the second. To make people do what they do, to make people feel the process. And so we would answer to this proposition which has often been brought to us, when we did not know how to do it. It's true, and when we've had the chance to talk through the whole process to the Ending, we were critical about this process, because we believe that a structure of three seminaries couldn't be called "a process for sharing" because a Moodle hadn't developed that idea in his mind. It is true that many of the articles of writing were made, some were admitted, others not, and that they also worked in mind. We know that the law which we have now from 2005 in the corresponding section of the Machista of violence, because the changes from 2005 to 2020 have been manifest, and therefore there is need to change it. But at the same time we believe that the law has several points which have not been executed: For lack of the budget, on some sides, for the lack of the lack of his ability to punish him, and sometimes for the lack of his ability to punish him. We did our work based on all this, so we'll continue to do our work based on it. We think we're going to have to fill up three important axes on this process we're going to have to do now. On the one hand, to contribute to each party, in the best way that each man decides or sees, and, as we say, we shall do according to these gaps. On the other hand, we think that to promote the part is indispensable. What we said at first, to make people feel, especially in this case. We need feminists and female associations, in this process, to accept all these wants and innovations of the law together, because they know better what we have done, what is lacking in this law and what is left to fill up. As for the Basque People, we will endeavour to overcome these walls, because we believe that it is necessary to raise the voice, opinion, and knowledge of those walls of the legislature; but besides this, it is very necessary to collect the knowledge and action of all these different institutions. Thus, with this particular proposal, we shall appeal to abstinence, because we believe that we are in the presence of a already engaged and planned law and a proposed proposition. It is a matter of several times made in the legislature that has been asked once more, but it does not contribute to it any further. Of course, we won't vote against it at all, but we'll abstain. And, as we say, our position will be in that direction now that they bring the law. It is very well for us to have it at the beginning of legislation, because thus we have leisure, quiet, to cultivate things calmly, and to encourage the intervention of them. In his time we'd bet on it, and we'd bet on it again. And so we're gonna do the job we're gonna do for it. And I think everyone here today, in a direction... not all of us who are here, though in one direction or another, have evidently had some gaps, that this people has important challenges, even in the case of the machista and equality of violence. And we talked about that in his time. To bring us a reform based on the law of equality was very positive for us, because we understand that we must go to the heart of the problem to see the tip of iceberg. But if we don't see the bottom, we won't get anything with the top one. To work in this vast point of view of equality, we shall find each other working for this vast point of view in the equality of women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing the answer, Euscala Popularo-Ciudadans, yes, Mrs Garrido, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, if you'll excuse me, I'll leave the seat. To address the spokesman for Vox and the spokesman for Podemos. I believe that the objective of the initiative was very concrete: it was the referral of the bill that has been pending since the third quarter of 2018. I believe it is common sense that, obviously, if there is a pending regulation, initiatives can be taken, and the Basque Government can be urged to forward these pending regulations as soon as possible. Indeed, there are different types of violence, this group condemns all violence. But in this case, we are talking, Mrs Martínez, about gender-based violence. I have also referred in my speech to the violence that can be experienced in the family environment, as sometimes gender-based violence also affects children who suffer it in the family. And, in this sense, you know, as I know, that Mariano Rajoy's government made a specific modification to take into account, precisely, the children who suffer from this violence, to grant them the corresponding assistance as well. We have therefore been sensitive to the consequences of violence in the family environment resulting from gender-based violence. The commitment of the People's Party has always been clear. The spokesman for Podemos said... I do not know if it seems to you that little progress has been made in starting a new commitment on the part of the Government to forward that bill. It seems to me that we have reached an important agreement today, and let us hope that this time it will be fulfilled, because we believe that this bill already suffers from a considerable delay in relation to the Government's own commitments. Obviously, we want to have it in this House as soon as possible. There's Councilwoman Artolazabal and I think her commitment will go that way. When it is referred back, we will study it, we will analyse it and each group will have the opportunity to amend it in the appropriate sense and to understand that it has to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u94	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Podemos, Mrs. González, the word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u95	To Mrs Sánchez: it is true that a participatory process was made, but it is also true that it was very questioned, especially by the feminist movement and the collectives. It seems to us that now the situation is different and that it is true that some new contributions should be made, at least. As far as requests for information are concerned, yes, we believe that there is a lack of budgetary commitments that have been made. I give two examples: the development of the training plan on equality and life free of machist violence, which was aimed at the training of professionals from all public administrations; the other was the increase in the budget allocation for activities related to the follow-up commission of the second institutional agreement. We have reviewed how the execution of the items is, and there is no expenditure executed, no forecast of expenditure. If you're going to do it in the last two months, then, well, we'll be on to it. But, well, it would seem like a titanic job, really. Poor people who have to get that training. We are talking about commitments that are supported by current legislation. Nor has the Zurekin service been expanded, as promised. And we'll see what's left of the increase in the budget announced. Mrs. Martinez, several things. On the one hand, it denies violence against women as structural violence, and, by pointing out feminists as enemies of the state, I believe they are being the practical and perfect example of the violence they deny. On the other hand, they say they are concerned about the attention given to women who suffer violence. But they have no proposals, deny their story and vote against the deployment of measures for their protection. Look, we come from a historical struggle that is adding milestones and encounters, like the one I mentioned from Durango, where we were asked to work on public policies that protect women from the violence they suffer. And we come to this House to build public policies, not to block attempts to build them. We have a feminist genealogy, where women like Clara Campoamor facilitated the materialization of the suffrage, or the 11 of Basauri, who drew the debate on sexual and reproductive rights, removed it from the private sphere to make it public. Or women like Angela Davis or Silvia Federici or Nancy Fraser or Lolita Chávez, who have been degenerating and building this common house, which is a pluralist feminist movement, which addresses the intersectionality of oppressions that come marked by class, race, colonialism and their impact on the lives and bodies of all of us. We come from all of them. And you know what they have in common? That all, at some point, have been declared enemies of the nation-state and revolutionary causes, of being treacherous. For all of them you are here today, with the right to vote and to vote; for all of them, you are part of this House, as we are the rest of the feminist and parliamentary women here. And, well, I think it's time to stop inventing enemies that aren't real, to stop pointing to feminism as an enemy, because we have centuries of struggle and because we're going to stay here. And we are and will be unstoppable.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Mrs Martínnez, Mistya, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u97	Well, first of all, what we want is for a law to be made that is intrafamily, not so let's say we don't want the defense of abused women. I say it loud and clear, for the record. Of course we will continue to defend abused women, but we also want to include other domestic sectors, such as children and the elderly. For us it is a joke not to contemplate that there is domestic violence. We believe that we must educate ourselves that there must be no violence in our society. That's the advanced. We also fully agree that violence against women must be stopped, I repeat. And I have also made it clear in my speech. But what I cannot support is a principle of law in which gender-based violence starts with a false principle. "Men abuse and kill women as long as they are men." This for us is inadmissible. Of course there are male abusers, but we cannot generalize in all. We think we need to study a lot more of this than they're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u98	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u99	Well, of course, for our part we are satisfied that we have reached a compromise amendment. Although I have already indicated that, regardless of whether it was reflected in this compromise amendment, it was a compromise that we had already made, both in the government agreement with the Basque Nationalist group, and on the part of Mrs Artolazabal, who presented it here, in her appearance in Parliament. But, Mrs Garrido, it is curious that you did not go into the substance of the amendment to the whole of the Vox Group's proposal for this initiative. And although I am pleased with the compromise amendment that we have arrived at this morning, I am genuinely concerned that there is today in the networks, for example, various information on the policy being pursued by, for example, your group, the People-Citizens Group within the Government of Andalusia, and that it is coming to reproduce, precisely, the various points that the Vox Group has put forward in the amendment as a whole. You have left 241 feminist projects in Andalusia without funding. And Mrs Martínez says: "No, it's just that I want help to be taken away from the associations, because that's what happens to the victims." But then I also read this very morning that zero euros has been approved for floors for abused women in Andalusia. Two million for bulls. Man. I don't know, they take it out of associations and then they give zero to abused women? On the other hand, I have read another article that said that the pressure of Vox and the pandemic cause cuts in feminist policies in Andalusia. And they've released what they've called the domestic violence phone. Does the speech we heard this morning ring a bell? I just read it this morning, it's all this news today. And that, frankly, makes me sad, that you are applying in other autonomous communities, where you govern, which, precisely, you are demanding from the Vox group. Mrs Gonzalez, we have tried to reach a compromise with you. On the first point, we fully agree. You asked for the bill to come to this Parliament as soon as possible, but you continue to insist on calling for such participation. I believe that participation was given, but it is also, as I indicated in my first speech, when a bill comes to Parliament, that another participation is given again. And you have the opportunity to request such appearances as you consider relevant before the various parliamentary groups draw up our amendments. So, precisely, in order to have it as soon as possible, it is logical that it should come as soon as possible, that these requests for appearances should be initiated here, and the various groups will already include in our amendments the contributions that we consider relevant. For our part, nothing more. I am simply satisfied with the compromise amendment today, but I would like to see what is required here by some groups also apply in the autonomous communities where they govern. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u100	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we think the process of changing the law has been extensive and involved. And I think we should all accept that. Besides, he was a member of the community, not only of the social producers, but also of the institutions. That's what he's talking about, but other teams forget the part of the organization, and that's important too. And they've been consulted with all the Red Beetle departments, three fords, and even Eudeli Eudel Ecomudel are replaced by different political parties. And he went to a public consultation. The text received more than 400 contributions from the civil society. It's from the agents and from the institutions: About 300 contributions from the socialists and over 100 from the different administrations. And in this process, men who have had part in the genus and equality, public institutions, feminists, and violence against women, have been able to participate in the prevention of violence, the prevention of women, the prejudices of women, the prejudices of the professionals, the agents of society, the institutions, and the associations of violence. The right means to receive the citizen's contributions were also opened, the attempts opened in the three countries to the people, to give more than half a dozen expositions to the assembled commissions, the collective and collective bands, and to give them technical support, to the association of the women at the Giver's Commission, and to the association of women who survived the victims and the survival of violence. It was broad and self-possession. However, there's another chance of being more extensive and more appropriate. And that's the law project coming to this Chamber and expanding these groups is a separate contribution request and so on. So it'll be even wider. I think he has every guarantee of this process. And so we must defend ourselves, at least that's what we think. And then the landlady mentioned a share of the purpose, and she said, "No, not everybody," someone doesn't share it. But, well, 99% of the time we form this Chamber. And I want to keep it, and I want to finish my speech with a positive message. I've tried to end up like this before, but time hasn't let me. Yes, I'd like to finish it with a positive message because the situation deserves it. And though it's only 99% of this Chamber, because it's a small number, it's more and more things that unite us within the circle of equality than those that fall into our hands and separate us from us. I've had a lot of experience in the past few years to confirm that, so different from the starting point, because we share the goal. And when this message becomes public, I think we must act together because we have a great responsibility for it, and because society needs it, a united message for equality. So let's get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u103	Feminism has many beautiful refrains. And one of them is "si agreden a una, nos agreden a toda." And today I'd like to end up with that fool. Here are many times the feminicitiums that our friends in Gabe have brought with us. For not having a safe abortion, those women who have died in the head and heart. Or the women in El Salvador's prison and their hearts. All those women who steal and kill every day in Ciudad Juárez and Mexico in memory. Boyned, all those young girls with their genitals mutilated and all these adults in memory. Women murdered in India, along with their dead husbands. To those witches who burned for the mere fact of being women. Trata, even in the Basque Country, these women must suffer in their minds. During their emigrations, violence, these women who have met death. All those girls who are forced to marry. Some people are lucky, perhaps, in feminism, though they do not believe in feministical movements and institutions, because we shall all stand by them, all those we proclaim are in the heart and mind. She was killed in the hands of her partner, and her daughter, Paola Méndez Uranga, a 24-year-old girl. A woman aged 74, murdered by her son this year. Or another 83 year, murdered by his partner. Remember those 106 women and 11 children who were murdered from 2003 to Basque People. In 2003, when the story began, the woman Yvette Ustariz, the 47-year-old woman, murdered by her former couple. Dora Angulo, a 39-year-old, murdered also her partner. Or Sara Victoria Cercano, 35-year-old, murdered by an acquaintance. Or they killed their mothers and daughters in 2004, a five-year-old girl and a 34-year-old mother. Or Entrence Orisewenhini, a woman of 33, who was murdered by her partners in year 2004. For all their sakes, in his time, I would like to end with a poem offered to Endurence: "A woman jumped out of the balcony, / her husband beat her every day. / When he was a kid, he was killed, or written in police reports. /But they did not write or wish he had brought his daughter with him, because he had not found a name for life. / (... ?' His mother named him Enturence. / Engression: Hold on. / Often the owners run away from the name, or do they not resemble it." No one else, in the Basque Country, to prevent a woman from ever holding her back.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. [[Applause]] The discussion is over and we'll vote for the half-correction signed by Basque Popula-Ciudadans, Basque Socialists and Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly were 43; 75; the supporters of the party, 47; the opponents of the enemy, 1, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-05.u105	So we have to accept the half-path correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. At two o'clock in the afternoon the meeting ended at forty-three.
