ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I remember that the next lords and ladies have taken the vote: Leire Pindo, Zarette, Maial's Guruga, and River Iriart. First point in theme list: "The Bill of Confederation of Confederation, Ekain Rico Lezama, Mien Galastegui Oyarzábal and the Iturbe law-lawal status of the members of the altar. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to speak for judgment? Do any of the legislatures want to speak against or against the judgment? That's all we're going to vote for. Except the members of the legislative society which is related to the Constitution, we can vote for the rest of the legislatures... Wait. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 63; the given votes, 67; the supporters are 67; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0, 0; 0, 0,0, 0,0,0,0,0,0; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u1	Therefore, accepted and approved, the judgment remains. Second point on the subject list: "The American patriots and the Socialists of Eusalia, as the Parliamentary groups, proposes to recover and to re-establish the Arian and Urduña, the Oro, the Aranvidia, and the townships of Araclus. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposers turn. Mr Pricee, the Basque Socialist, his agent, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u2	Presidenta, señorías... It is up to me to open this point, because the initiative is presented jointly by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party; but, as a matter of parliamentary courtesy, I will – let us say – make a formal presentation, because this is a paper..., the objective of the PNL is to resume a paper that was already unanimously agreed by this House in its day. We did this in May of last year; later, we made an appearance agreement to involve economic, social, trade union and institutional actors. It was also a list of consensus for participation in these papers. And, as I say, it was also agreed by all groups. Then came the election call, the pandemic, and all this has been delayed. But, in reality, we are faced with an act in which only the constitution of this paper is intended to be restored and we are going to work on a list of already agreed appearances, to address the industrial, economic, social and population situation in the Ayala region (Orduña, Orozko, Arakaldo and Arrankudiaga). Well, I believe that the debate has already taken place, in its day, as to why this situation should be faced. There was talk of the unemployment situation, the industrial situation, relocations, difficulties in attracting capital for investment, the need to improve innovation, industrial development, looking to the future. Well, we are talking about all this in its day, and, at the moment, moreover, the pandemic has introduced a more negative element in this industrial, economic and social situation, because we are seeing what is happening, above all, in the pipe sector, where the drop in orders and the difficulty of export are generating very important tensions in industrial activity and employment, and therefore throughout the socio-economic development of the area, especially in the Ayala Valley. But, well, the rest of..., the other Vizcaean localities that are next to the Ayala region also have their particular situations and it is also necessary to address them; although, among them, there are certain differences. Well, this is the objective of this initiative, and I did not want to enter into what is a more political fund, because I would think that it would simply take advantage of a formal space and formulation to recover the paper, which I think is no longer appropriate, because this is a role shared by the whole of the House, since everything we have done so far has been unanimously. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u3	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen of the department, Mr. President, good morning. Well, Mr. Prieto has already explained this: this is a paper that was created in the last legislature; today the process is restarted, and the list of attendees will be kept. And, well, the situation that we were living in in the 19th we also continue to live in today, if at all aggravated, by the oil and gas sector. Our group, in general, seems to it to be inebriating to create a potentiality; because we have, as it were, a power to unite different sensibilitys from this legislature, and, on the other hand, because it is possible to do so in some degree, or in some degree in the street, as well as in those political parties. We will endeavour to promote the share of our party, and to make as many measures as possible or as possible to be arranged, and we will endeavour to discuss them with the rest of the institutions, especially with the Government. for they, too, will have to do these measures later on, and because they have this concern also. In the July, Mrs. Tapia had already taken a meeting with the mayors of the place, in which, either based on the strategy of the Program or taking philosophy, she agreed to make a local strategy, and, well, from that point of view, we shall take the test on this bill to agree. In the past legislature, work was done on a paper that was referential, which was that of the Left Margen, which later extended its action to Oarsoaldea and Meatzaldea, and a long list of measures was initiated, at the beginning in a shock plan and, subsequently, in an inter-institutional strategy, which is still being developed. And, well, we think it would be very important to bring this success, this success strategy, also to Aiaraldea, Orduña, Orozko, Arrakundiaga and Arakaldo. We may not use exactly the same pattern; I believe that the experience of this paper by Ezkerraldea gave us lessons that we could apply in this new experience; for example, at the level of participation, it might be interesting to go into business with the institutions, also working with the institutions, taking measures, because it will be the institutions – municipalities, parliaments and government – that will work on this shock plan, if we decide to make a shock plan, and the subsequent interinstitutional strategy, if we decide to do so, but to pay the ground for cooperation, before agreement or the issuing of conclusions, we believe it can be interesting. The government has set, for this legislature, an unemployment rate of less than 10%, and a burden on industry and the advanced services sector of more than 40%, and we want to do so, the government also wants to do so in a balanced way, so that we can have a balanced territorial development in Euskadi. It is now time to start the presentation – we will immediately get to work on it eagerly – and to reorient, as far as possible, the productive model towards sectors of the future, from the limbs that already exist in the area, which are not few. This path does not begin or end with the presentation, but it will be an important milestone on the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u5	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Passing to the leadership teams, representing the EH Collector, Mr Fernandez de Betoulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u6	Good morning, everyone. Well, we're glad we've come to an agreement for the first time with the members of the government in this legislation. It is my duty to thank for my behaviour, and particularly for Michael's Barea. And because it seems to us that this power of healing is really important in economicly, socienomally, socially. We've made a couple of slight corrections to the original proposal, small ones. The first, therefore, to make a reference to the other bill of law, was founded by the initiative of the EHG Collectors. And the second, to make a reference to the crisis of the coronabirus, which we are suffering at the present day, because it was not last year, and consequently because it could produce some changes. To show that the crisis of the coronabirus is clear, that he is playing in the world's level, and that he is playing hard in several countries already falling, and he is one of those Aianian regions. The Achaian, not only understood by an administrative inquiry, would be a gang of the Araiba, in this way there are five townships: but in a geographical sense, where four townships of the Biscay would enter into the Neerbium-Nerbium. : Urduha, Urnkuga, Aracdo, Oro. So it must be said that the absence has increased the crisis of the coronabirus. Amurion and Ladion, who gathers in this region... 6% of population, there are already 17% unemployment, 4 points higher than the US average. It has to be said that there's plenty of work to do. That the new contracts we made last year were more than 90% temporary. There have been a good deal of labor in the country: For the last ten years, there's been more than 20 dead in the region. There's the ghost of the releases, it's mentioned before: In Tubacex there is already a ghost to fire 150 workers, and Tubos Reundos is talking about the seventh ERTE of the last ten years, and also Artiachen of the Oro, they are in trouble with the ghost of firearms. And so, there are some socionomical data that has been aggravated by the crisis of the coronabirus. But there are other facts that disturb us: in age and in the number of empty houses it is not the worst district of the EAE, but it is above average. As for mobility, for the last few days, for instance, it must also be connected with the crisis of the coronabirus, which is a serious reduction of C-3 across the line. We have been told that there are no engineers from Renf to operate on that line, at least until January. And so they're in big cuts. And, well, that should be this, this temporary line, an important equipment for structure of the Western Sea. And then, even with this crisis, there's an old claim connected to health, and it's a regional hospital. Well, then, he will discuss these matters and many other matters in power. We will invite, as we have said, experts, academians, institutional experts, selects, and even social and otherwise competent agents. And with them, the object is to make a plan, where a diagnosis will be made, to enumerate various activityes, where they must be well fixed, in time, even in budget. And finally, I hope, also, that in determining certain indicators, the execution of these undertakings in time will be evaluated. We know that not only from the Administration can the socializations of a district revive or revive, but it must not be despised as a catalyser and as a protector the work of the Administration can have. We've also had experience of previous law enforcement. Our initiative created the left-hand side, the Meatz and the Oarsoea. And we hope here, as has been said, that there is an interesting impact plan on the table, together with economic measurements, and a longer period of view, with another strategic plan. On our side, we'll put everything we have in order to make this power interesting. And whether we all recover the Aian by sociational treatment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u7	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Passing over to the rest of the teams that have no corrections, Misty will take the word from them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u8	Good morning, Members of Parliament. Reactivating, investigating and attenuating are actions, all of them noble, and in which they will always find this parliamentarian, where they will find Vox. We believe it is necessary to continue this work, which has already begun during the last parliamentary term. The paths of the economy, it is true, are never simple, and the task of reactivation of the depressed area can be, as is the case, multi-causal. A multidisciplinary work is mandatory, a work from which we can ensure that the resources that are allocated are adequate in time, online and in mode. In short, we are aware of the situation, its complexity and how it has increased with the crisis of the COVID-19, with the pandemic. More difficulties, as I say, but I hope that, with all this work, we can solve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u9	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. We understand that this debate, indeed, should be very short and very quick, because it is an issue, as has already been said, discussed in the previous parliamentary term, so I too will be very brief. We, in fact, rather than making a presentation for the reactivation of the Ayala region, would be much more in favour of urging the Basque Government to start, directly, the reactivation of the region, to put in sufficient budget and get to work now. I think it was Napoleon who said or was attributed the phrase that "if you want to fix a problem, appoint a person responsible, and if you want the problem to continue, appoint a commission." In this case, a paper. Therefore, this paper does not know what is more useful than really delaying intervention, entertaining ourselves in small, perhaps partisan differences and, perhaps, complicating things. Or is it that maybe we're not clear what needs to be done? Good. We also have to say that the Ayala region is not the only one that needs urgent intervention. That it would be good for the Basque Government to make a relationship of the most needy regions; that a set of indicators be established to set priorities, and that a more ambitious intervention plan be drawn up, aimed at eliminating the lack of opportunities for the neighbours of some area of Euskadi and the inequalities, and not only economic, that limit the life projects of many citizens. But, come on, let no one worry; because, on this occasion too, we are going to vote in favour of the proposal, for three fundamental reasons: One, because we really believe that it is necessary to reactivate the Ayala region. The economic data are, in themselves, very clear, and they recommend urgent intervention. We agree. Secondly, because it is what they demand and what the inhabitants of the region need, who are the ones who suffer the problem and who pay us to solve it. And we politicians are at your service, this House too, so there is nothing more to say. And thirdly, because the issue, as we have already said, has been widely debated. The same proposal was already unanimously adopted in the previous parliamentary term, and we therefore hope that, on this occasion too, it will obtain the same unanimous support from the House, without hindering it from different or small party differences in detail or procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u11	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u12	Yes, good morning, ma'am. And good morning to all. Together we will protect this power from the Podemos Meridas, as we did in the legislation which has passed, to the Achaians, Uduñas, Oro, Arancudiga, and Arakal. And of course we'll keep the same attitude. It seems important to us, in that sense, even in time and in length... and, well, to limit the length of the whole of the world, so that what was produced by the power of resurrection in the left-hand and the Old Sea might not again be prolonged in time. And also, in our opinion, it's important, and I meant today, about recommendations and resolution suggestions that are tested, this Chamber must be more controlled. I don't know, it's my feeling that, at least, with that power to strengthen the regions of the left and the Oarso, they tested, in a way, a few measures, a short term, and a long term, but here, in the legislature, we have but a few trackings or control... About that. He said that we supported the paper, the proposal to reactivate this paper by Aiaraldea and the rest of the municipalities we mentioned. A region and municipalities that are in a complicated situation, not only in the case of this... of this region, but especially, and it's also a unanimous agreement of the past... from the last legislature, but we think that... which has to be... well, we have to try to do it in a prudent time, so that neither the paper nor the possible agreements will be extended excessively. Most of the things have been said, but we'd like to talk about our team, well, our seven most important points for this country and this country. In the same way, the maintenance and burning of industry, has already been said of Laudin and Amiguon, especially of the reduction of the restrictions which have been announced during the last few years. We know the situation in which Tubacex, Tubos Reunidos, is now spoken of in Artiach. And I think, in that sense, you know, you know, you're going to get more leadership... He has to take more or more leadership to maintain his job, to maintain his production, and, above all, to ensure the quality and security of his job. Also, in the short term, as far as European funds are concerned, I think we also have to say that both Araba, but especially Aiaraldea, is one of the great forgotten in the initial project relationship. I do not know whether there is going to be an open door to change it among all; I believe that, if we agree on this presentation and on some of the conclusions, we can take advantage of it. I wish, moreover, it would be extended to... well, to the whole country. The housing problem has also been mentioned, but in particular, as well, with different realities between the major centres and rural areas. But I believe that there are policies that can be put in place to set people, generate incentives for that, and also generate public housing policy. Osasun Arloan ere bai, ba, ez dakit zenbat hamarkada darmagun eskatzen Aiaraldeko... well, hospitable, hospitable eskuldek. Big age, lehen sektoreari laguntzea. The provision of services by the public administrations so far has been quite... so to speak, very deficient, i.e., the Arab Parliament is going to open an office now, and we believe that, well... that it is especially late. Eta, esan de moduan, ghetto era, garraioren... Garraiaren kontua, Gasteizekin eta Bilborekin, eta, huta ére, escualde barruan. The cut right now, due to the COVID-19 on Renfe's C-3 line, which connects Aiaraldea to Bilbao; it seems that some of the issues will be resolved in February, which is also not going to be too soon, but we know that they will be resolved. But that line needs investment and it needs... well, I also think it's on the part of the state government right now; but, from 2021, on the part of the Basque government, it's going to take on the transfer in that sense. And, nothing more, of these things is that for our part we will also want to talk about in the presentation. And, well, let's say again that we'll back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u13	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Does anyone want to participate in answering? No, so we're gonna go to the vote. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists, Eucalists, and EH Collectors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the companies, 71; the given votes are 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0, 0,0 So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Pull this proposition as a parlamentary team, about the extraordinary measures to be taken to the workers who have been exposed to the files of temporary employment." Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Rodriguez, representing EH Collect, is your word to introduce and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. The president, the chief physician, the congressman, good day. When we're talking about financial measures to maintain COVID-19, we should be able to grasp the situation in which a part of our population lives. The society which resists this crisis is much weaker than that which faced the crisis of 2008. Before the crisis of COVID-19, most of the data and indicators clearly showed that the conditions of the population have been worse from 2008. It is true that one part of the people has passed the great retreat, but another or another has not surpassed it, and what is more important was more and more remote from being overcome. It must be added to all the foregoing that it was one of the principal problems that families were incapable of supporting worthy conditions of life. In our country, hundreds of thousands of people could not face a surprise, such as the crisis of COVID19. Since the crisis began, we have been able to see how the Spanish Government, as well as those of France, have changed the conditions of entering their own protection system. The conditions for obtaining different preparations have been flexible, and new fields have been created. In the Basque Autonomy Er member, we have a backup system. In order to ensure the incomes, the system of increasing housing and social harassments, which we believe in in this context to fill up a fundamental paper; but unfortunately, it hasn't been suggested until now that the state of emergency could be answered by any single change. He said that we were facing an unprecedented crisis immediately, which we all agree was impossible to predict. And it turns out our protection system wasn't ready. All of them, I insist, all governments have made changes in a different way to make access to the different protection systems more flexible, except for us. Our "singularity" [Keinu bat egin du hatzekin] Look, what happened to people who are cultural professionals is a very representative example of what we are doing frankly wrong in this country. The Ministry of Labour and Social Economy of the Government of the Kingdom of Spain announced extraordinary access to an unemployment benefit for artists in public performances; that is, if they met certain requirements, they received a benefit. The Basque Government, on the other hand, in parallel, announced aid for cultural professionals, in which, if they met certain requirements, they entered a draw, entered a draw!, to receive aid. The crisis caused by COVID opens up a time of uncertainty. A time of uncertainty for thousands of families in our country. Months and even years of uncertainty. Our obligation is to provide you with certainties. I wish you could be certain about all the future aspects of your life. But we're not going to cheat; it's not going to be like this. We do not have all the answers about an immediate future, which will be full of uncertainties. But there are aspects on which action can be taken, bringing some sort of certainty to the citizenry; among them, there is income. That is what our political initiative responds to, to guarantee the economic income of citizens. Because we can't go on like this. The measures deployed to date by the Government have only increased the uncertainty of the citizenry. The income of a self-employed woman cannot depend on a website collapsing at four o'clock in the morning, nor on the fact that eleven hours, several minutes and seconds later the credit will be terminated. The income of cultural professionals cannot depend on a draw. The income of families facing the care of sick family members cannot depend on "springs that do not arrive". Ladies and gentlemen of the government, this image, this image [Orri bat erakutsi du] Hunger Games. The Games of Hunger We can't keep adding more uncertainty. We must adopt measures that go through the path of rights. Let our citizens be sure that, if they find themselves in such a situation, they will be guaranteed their income. It is time for us to stop turning the needs of thousands of people around the budget, so that it is the budget that revolves around the needs of people. This is the choice of the Basque Country of the Collectors: one, to ensure the introductions to the necessary measures on the system, to adapt to the necessary needs due to the crisis of COVID-19. And two, based on the principles of reform, individuality, universality, and lack of condition, for the guarantee of the revenues. That's our choice. But today, with this equally different proposal, we are placed in your bowels, in your bowels. The purpose of this proposition, as far as we are concerned, is to insert a variety of improvements into foreign associates for workers who have been exposed to a temporary post-relation of COVID-19, to increase their protection. Ever since Pandemia began, filed 25.167 temporary jobs record has been introduced into the community. Until the week before, they've touched 189.082 workers. Many of these families are indisputable because their wages have been diminished; at the most, because they are receiving 70% of what they receive in return for work. Prior to the outbreak of the COVID-19 crisis, the reports themselves prepared by the Basque Government stated that one in four households in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country lacked sufficient savings to meet unforeseen costs. One in four! What do you think has happened to them?, what do you think will happen if we do not act?, what protection has been offered to them to date?, how are we protecting our citizens, those people affected by ERTE? Well, well, we can take a quick look at the data we have today [Orri bat erakutsi du] April, 111,320 persons affected by ERTE; protected by the RGI, 3,076; May, 112,628 persons affected by an ERT; protected by the RGI, 3,131; June, 64,712 persons affected by an ERT; protected by the RGI, 1,937; July, 31,190 persons affected by an ERT; protected by the RGI, 907; August, 22,716 persons affected by an ERT; protected by the RGI, 678; and September, 16,844 persons affected by an ERT; protected by the RGI, 506; that is, our system of protection, income guarantee income, over the last few months, since the pandemic broke out and the ERTE's protection effects began to unfold from the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, has only been able to protect 3% of workers affected by an employment regulation file. Only 3%! When, at last, the government decided to act in this situation – and I say it decided to act and react, because let's remember that they opposed in May in the Permanent Chamber until establishing any kind of complement to the ERTEs – it articulated an aid that did not offer protection when it was most needed, because it was only going to protect the people who had been in ERTE since July. All persons at ERTE since April, May and June were left out of that protection; i.e., it excluded those who had been affected by ERTE during those months. Besides, I'm sure it's just fun to say that $4,000 people would get the extras. Forty thousand workers! Considering the number of applications introduced, if all requests are granted a consent resolution, of course that's not going to happen. I mean, four percent of the workers from a temporary job record would be able to protect him. "El Gobierno Vasco, una vez más, préno prensa y despés piensa." As with the rest of the bills, the answer was not in the position of the situation. This parliament has several times been accused that the amount of Spanish protective system is not enough for our economic reality. To realize this situation, it is enough to observe the dangers of poverty. Let's see [She has shown a plane] Since the government's public structure has been made, we have talked of the importance of the cross-line. As soon as we get to the President of the Empire and connect it with only one particular subject, the Basque People are brought to the public, and the subject which we have brought here shows us what is meant by not being ranged. They were the 42% of the workers who had been touched by the post office records. The women, on the other hand, are the majority of those who are accustomed to assist them; 67%. The absence of the protection of these aids is therefore peculiarly prejudicial to women. He said at the beginning of my speech that this was not the path of Euskal Herria Bildu; that, since the beginning of the crisis of the COVID-19, Euskal Herria Bildu bet that the certainties that we had to offer to citizens had to be articulated through the economic benefits of law, of law! Today, on the other hand, we have temporarily set aside the multiple common minimum – and we were betting – and we have tried to look for the common minimum denominator: introducing some timid reforms into an aid to try to protect citizens more and better, some timid reforms; once again it has not been possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u15	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Passing over to the teams that present the corrections, Mistto, Madam Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u16	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I must say one thing: the social eaters have become the center of the lives of many Basques; you just have to walk through some of them or through the food banks and ask what the situation is, as we have done, and they have answered us: overflowing. That is the reality of society; not of all – it is true – but of a remarkable and rising part of our people. That is why we understand the anger, the remarkable anger, that many Basques have on the street regarding the political class. But it is true, politicians, there are good ones, there are bad ones, there are hypocrites, there are sincere ones, but the triumphant vision in society is hypocrisy, so much so that there is even a popular saying, which is not mine, that says "value less than the word of a politician". What am I getting at with this? That when reading the ongoing Euskadi government program They deceive us over and over again; they lied and hid data before the elections, and they pretend to deceive us now with beautiful but empty institutional statements. But what is the reality? That a large percentage, 16% of the working population, does not reach the end of the month. This means that work is not a guarantee of getting out of poverty. Imagine, then, the situation of the families in ERTE; they neither arrive nor will arrive. And we have seen during September measures that try to alleviate this situation, but they are nothing more than mere patches; they are insufficient. And it is that, gentlemen of the working left, Mrs Tapia indicated, in mid-September, that the only solution was to lower wages to save businesses. Mrs. Tapia, this trip doesn't require any pillows. They fill their mouths with great promises, but the reality is that they prefer the short, easy path. And it's just that the situation is not admissible. We are one of Spain's richest regions in terms of GDP, and we are also leaders in political spending. It is regrettable to think that no one has been able to condemn the oversized political spending. For example, today's day costs us all Basques nine thousand..., ninety thousand, sorry, 90,400 euros or, which is the same, the equivalent of five annual wages of almost any Basque. And so every day. From Vox, we are betting on a model that seeks to maximize savings over political spending. We believe that the money of the Basques should fall to the companies and families that are so badly going through it, especially by making a special mention of the large families, one of the most needy collectives. In this sense, in our amendment, being aware that the aim of all groups is to find a formula to guarantee the well-being of our workers, we say that we cannot allow the burden of the crisis to always fall on the backs of self-employed, hotel workers, workers, entrepreneurs; we must eliminate unnecessary expenditure in the administration, with special emphasis on institutions and projects where duplication can be found. That's our opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u17	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u18	Good morning, congressmen. To Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, of course – and I would like to start there – the aid put in place..., because it is aid even if we call it complements, the aid put in place for workers affected by temporary employment regulation dossiers for reasons of COVID seemed, in its day, very good news, and it still seems to us. It was a claim, a claim, which was put on the table by the trade unions, the trade unions, from the zero minute; that is, since March, and they are linked, precisely, to the adoption of these extraordinary measures, to which Mr Rodriguez referred, included in that royal decree of 17 March, which, among other things, made the temporary employment regulation dossiers more flexible, because in the conditions under which they were, through the labour reform of the People's Party, they were not an effective tool to stop the more than predictable blood of layoffs that came upon us as a result of this crisis. I believe that time has shown us – and I believe that all the groups present in this Parliament and in others also recognise this – that this measure has been fundamental; that measure has prevented this bloodshed of redundancies, despite the situation. It's funny to see in the Teleberri, just yesterday, data that looks like they might shock us. Yesterday they said in the Teleberri that unemployment was falling; it is true that other factors, such as the situation in the summer, etc., influence other factors; but in this situation, in a crisis like the one we are experiencing, hearing that unemployment data are coming down – not only going down, going down – it would not have been possible without those measures. The help we're discussing today... Today we would not be discussing them if those amendments to the temporary employment regulations had not been put in place. It is true, however, that these temporary regulation dossiers represent a drop in the wage income of the workers, who have to take care of them, who are affected by these dossiers, a drop of 30%. In view of this, of course, we need to enable the workers..., to minimize the impact of this reduction in wages, because wages are not great and because, as has already been said, the savings of the majority of families, therefore, do not give to deal with the situation, with a drop of 30%. And here are two ways: A way, which is that of public aid, which is basically on which we are discussing today, which seems to us to be a convenient way and which, of course, we welcome and greet in its day, when, through the social dialogue, the agreement on which these aids exist right now in Euskadi was reached. But then there is another way, on which we are not going to discuss today, but which I would like to mention, albeit briefly, because for Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, it is the preferred way, the fundamental way, which is that of the complements on the part of the companies themselves, something that previews the labor legislation, something that it is true that we are not going to discuss in this Parliament, because we cannot force the companies to supplement those wages, because that is so, it is a matter of collective bargaining, that is a matter that the workers within their companies fight, that the unions fight. And I wanted to put it on the table, because, for us, that's the preferred way. But it is true that not all companies can supplement these wages, nor on all occasions trade unions or workers have sufficient strength to negotiate or agree on such supplements in companies. And, therefore, in our view, the public administration also has an obligation to supplement these wage cuts, with public money. We, as I was saying, when, after a timorous position, we thought, on the part of the Basque Government, at first, with regard to supplementing or implementing these aids, when, finally, at the Social Dialogue Bureau, an agreement was reached by which they were set in motion, we are pleased. That's what we said. And we congratulate the trade unions for having achieved that agreement by which these aids exist today. We maintain this position and, moreover, I will say that it seemed to us to be a good agreement, above all because it was based on a basis that we thought was the right one. It started from bottom to top; it covered workers with the most precarious wages, up to a peak of 20,000 euros of annual gross salary. And, therefore, it seemed to us that that was in the right direction. Today, however, we are being brought to this Parliament an initiative with the intention of improving and extending this aid. We think that when there is an agreement like the one that was reached and we greeted, saying that there is a good agreement does not mean that the agreement is unbeatable. For Elkarrekin We can-United Left, well it's not synonymous with unbeatable. And I wanted to make our position clear, in that sense, so that no one thinks that, when we ask for better aid, we are criticizing what, with so much effort, has also cost the unions. But it is true that these aids can be improved. We thought, and we included this in our original amendment – it was the only reference we actually made to improving these aids – that an equality criterion must be met. The aid is for workers affected by temporary employment regulations because of the COVID. But they apply from 1 July, when workers affected by temporary employment regulation files due to COVID come from 17 March. And, therefore, it does not seem fair to us that a worker who is affected by a file of this kind in April is not entitled to an aid that is specific to those affected by these files and that, instead, a worker who is affected by the same type of file in August is entitled to a specific aid for these files. That is why what we were essentially proposing is that these aids should be adapted to the time frame for the question which gives rise to these aids, which are these dossiers of a nature, let us say, exceptional. Of course, we agree that, as set out in the original initiative and in what we have agreed with the EH Bildu group, they can also be improved. Above all, there is one question: those 20,000 euros, which is the maximum for which you can take advantage of this type of aid, are fine because they collect the most precarious wages. But I do not think anyone in this Parliament will be able to argue that from 20,000 up we have a long stretch where we are not talking about good wages. And, therefore, there you can improve. Furthermore, in the compromise we have reached, we are not really telling the Government to do so, because we know that this debate is going to be on the table because these measures have emerged as a result of negotiations with the social partners. What we are asking the Government to do is to do what is necessary to push them forward, to put in place the necessary mechanisms. In other words, I am speaking on behalf of my group: we ask the Government to take that position to the Social Dialogue Bureau, and to take that position to meetings and meetings with the social partners. Because we think that aid, being the product of a good agreement, can be improved. And, therefore, we are what we think can be done and we are asking the Government to do so. Briefly, because I am running out of time; we think that, in the end, this is a tough matter. We believe that the only real argument that can be fought against the position that aid can be improved is budget or money. That is why we included something in what we always give a lot of money, which is the question of tax reform, because we know that it is primarily the workers who are supporting the tax burden in this country, and we do not say this: many agents have said this, and not just the trade unions. And, therefore, let us insist on this: if it is an economic problem, let us also put the solutions in place to ensure that the necessary resources are available. In short, we ask you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u20	Yes, I'm done, President. What we are asking of the Government is not to close down proposals for better aid that are good, to push them forward, because the Government can and must do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u21	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Well, these days, in numerous public statements, the various representatives of both the People's Party and others of the People's-Citizens' Party coalition have argued that, while new restrictions are being approved to tackle and mitigate the health effects of the pandemic, these measures must be accompanied by other measures in the economic sphere, to alleviate precisely the effects that these restrictions are causing on the daily economy of many specific sectors and groups; we are referring to hoteliers, traders, self-employed people, entrepreneurs in general and workers, who are being affected, as I say, by the consequences of this economic crisis resulting from the pandemic. It is therefore necessary to arbitrate new measures; in this case, today we are discussing measures for workers affected by ERTE in the various fields. As we all know, the health crisis has generated or triggered the declaration of the state of alarm, which has led to a decline in the reduction of business activity, with a clear impact on workers who have been affected by the suspension of their contracts or the reduction of their working hours. We believe that ERTEs are a valuable tool – precisely as envisaged in the labour reform adopted by the People's Party – to prevent the destruction of employment and the inclusion of more people on the list of unemployed. From the People's and Citizens' Party, we consider that the initial deadline of the ERTEs set until..., effective until 31 September was absolutely insufficient, and, in this regard, our spokesman Carmelo Barrio presented an initiative already on 28 August, requesting, on the one hand, to extend the temporary validity of the ERTEs and, on the other hand, to seek formulas for their extension in other areas, particularly to companies in the industrial sector. We have to say that on the eve of the debate, Royal Decree 30/2020 of social measures in defence of employment was adopted, the result of the agreement reached, as we all know, between the Government, employers and trade unions, and the ERTE was extended until 31 January 2021. This fact motivated us to withdraw the initiative at that time; however, I also have to say that, seeing the scenario we are currently in and the so complicated situation that we are living in and especially that sectors of our economy and workers who are seeing how their contracts are being suspended or their days reduced, we believe that new measures must be arbitrated by the Government of Spain, to which I am now referring, to which I am referring, to alleviate the effects of this crisis on both our companies and the workers. Within the competence in the autonomous field, an extraordinary call for aid was approved for workers affected by temporary employment regulation dossiers derived from COVID-19, for an amount of EUR 15 million. We think that from the Basque Country they should... There is no doubt that much more can be done, and in this regard, taking into account the scenario in which we find ourselves, it is necessary to adopt new measures. We have been allocated a compromise amendment, reached by the United Left... the group Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, barkatu, I believe that, of course, you too will understand that the position of the People's Party is radically contrary to the tax issue that you are defending. We can agree on the subject of aid, of this extraordinary aid, which obviously needs to be extended; a new resolution must be adopted; all applications must be accommodated, and I must also say in this regard that we have to criticise this Government, because we believe that it is not up to the circumstances of the aid that people directly affected, workers in specific sectors are in need of. At the same time as we are talking about these aids in particular, and we also call for the continuation of the social dialogue, so that all the measures that can be taken, with regard to the extension or extension of ERTs, are taken, as well as specific measures to deal with the situation of businesses, workers and self-employed people. We also call on the Basque Government and, by virtue of its powers, to adopt the resolution of 8 July 2020 by the Director-General of Lanbide, in order to publish the call for such aid for workers affected by temporary regulation dossiers, and to adapt it to the current needs, as I said, of the sectors which are suffering from them. But, on the other hand, apart from arbitrating aid – and then, at the last point in the plenary this morning, we will also have the opportunity to discuss an initiative by the People's Party – there is one issue that we believe it is necessary for this government too – better said – to be a priority issue, which is the reform of the Basque Employment System, which is the reform of the legislation governing the issue of social protection, the The Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act, as well as a comprehensive reform of Lanbide, the Basque Employment Service, to put it, once and for all, at the service of employability and the care of persons who are unemployed and, at this time, those who are on the unemployment lists. This comprehensive plan is necessary in order, of course, to correct the many shortcomings of this service. We have seen, and here it has also been said by other speakers, how these days, unfortunately, we have seen how this service works. And, of course, we can say, loud and clear, that it has not lived up to the circumstances, with a collapsed service, and that it has also made it impossible to process aid with due agility and to meet the requests that were being made. And we also have to say that many of the requests could not be met either, because the money has run out. We therefore call for a funding effort by the Basque Government to extend this aid, in this case to those in this situation. And, on the other hand, that the services responsible for handling this aid are functioning properly, because, as I said, unfortunately, today, it is not being so. We will defend our amendment, because we believe that it is the most complete, and without prejudice, of course, to the fact that there may also be coincidence in other points of the amendments tabled by other groups. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u23	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u24	Thank you very much, President. The COVID-19 pandemic has put us all in the face of a scenario of economic and social crisis. And we know, from experience, that there are many ways of dealing with the crisis and, from the beginning, the Socialists have refused to get out of it with more inequality, with a less cohesive society or with a weakened state of well-being. A week ago, in this same plenary room, Vicelehendakari Idoia Mendia, launched an important reflection: "It is not the time to compete between institutions, but to collaborate with each other to offer answers in our areas of competence". And that's what we've been doing since the first minute. The ERTE, the special aid to them and their extensions are a good example of this. But the importance of these measures is also in the formula used to reach them. Both have been born and materialized on the basis of social dialogue tables. And this is very important, because it involves a clear commitment from both governments to the best social consultation tool we have, which is no other than the tables of social dialogue. EH Bildu's initiative reveals something we already know, and it is that it does not share that model. This explains, in large part, that his initiative is, in fact, an amendment to all the agreements adopted within the employment group of the Social Dialogue Bureau in Euskadi. It is true that they have made an attempt at rapprochement, but the truth is that we have clashed with something that, from the beginning, was there: our difference in models. And that is seen by reading his initiative, in which they simply obviate the existence of a social dialogue table in Euskadi, which is the one that, no more or less, has raised these measures. And, obviating that, they ask the Government to unilaterally change the agreements that have been adopted in that forum. We see that they are not even written down in the compromise amendment. Not a single mention of the existence of the Social Dialogue Bureau, which is the forum. As much as any of the signatories say what they understand: not a single mention to the Social Dialogue Bureau. That is not what is called for in the signed compromise amendment. I would like to recall that, since the decision was taken in the socialist government of the lehendakari Patxi López to recover the Social Dialogue Bureau as a forum for channelling agreements between social actors, the Socialists have never abandoned this path, neither being in the opposition nor being in the government. In the past legislature, we took one more step, and from the department led by María Jesús San José, this forum was institutionalized with a decree that placed it as a permanent forum for concertation, with a regulated functioning and that is what is obvious both in the initiative and in the compromise amendment. Following this path, Vice-Lehendakari has decided to strengthen it as such a forum for concerted public policies in favour of quality employment. And the Socialists have always assumed, with absolute loyalty and conviction, the agreements that have been reached at the Social Dialogue Bureau. And, as you will understand, today is not going to be the exception. And, by the way, that loyalty, that conviction, the Socialists extend it both to the agreements adopted by the Bureau of Social Dialogue in Spain and to those adopted by the Bureau of Social Dialogue in Euskadi. What surprises us, sincerely, is that others do not; that is what we will come to. But do not simply believe that it is a matter of forum; it is a matter of substance. Sozialistok Elkarrizketa Sozialerako Mahairaren eta bertatik lortutako akordioen alde apustu egiten dugu, Espanian eta Euskadin, onak direlako, haieieie esker ERTEak eta laguntza osagarriak martxan izan baitiugu. The Socialists support in their entirety the agreements reached at the Bureau for Social Dialogue in Madrid and at the employment group for social dialogue in Euskadi, simply and simply because they have produced very good results. Firstly, because the ERTE model, which emerged from the social dialogue promoted by the Spanish Government, has saved jobs, saved rights and saved businesses. Secondly, because the additional aid agreed at the Basque Social Dialogue Bureau, promoted by the Basque Government, has made it possible to supplement the public benefits of persons covered by an ERT with a contribution base of less than EUR 20,000 per year. And that, plain and simple, is good. And there will be those who think that more could have been done. As I'm sure – only the congressional diaries of the Congress of Deputies must be seen – there will also be people who think that the social shield is excessive. Well, they're opinions, and opinions we all have. But beyond the opinions, the fact is that, thanks to these agreements and the extension of them, millions of jobs have been saved in Spain and millions of people, tens of thousands here in Euskadi, have been allowed not to end up in unemployment, so they have shown that they are a successful formula to save jobs and to compensate for the loss of income for the most vulnerable workers. And I will also tell you, Mr Dejarza, that the views you have expressed here do not cease to be the same considerations that we have already heard from trade unions that are absent from that Social Dialogue Bureau in Euskadi and that even come to question, as EH Bildu has traditionally been doing, the social dialogue table itself as a valid body. There's the model difference! In view of this, what I can tell you is that we will continue to strive for agreements and for concertation as a method of work, and we want to do so at the hands of the social partners. And pending the completion of the Social Dialogue Bureau, this Government will keep all channels of dialogue open, with all trade unions and the representation of the various business sectors. But with this, as Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia recalled last week, there is a clear commitment from this Government to the best consultation tool we have, which is the Social Dialogue Bureau, formalized as a permanent space for these actors to participate in the design of public policies that affect quality employment. Beyond the differences that exist today, our commitment is to involve all those who are called to participate. And I have to admit that when we saw this initiative, we sincerely thought that an agreement with Podemos could be possible. We were surprised by the amendment that they ended up presenting, and, although we have done an exercise of rapprochement everywhere, finally, the agreement has not been possible. And I say that it surprised us, for something that is obvious: We can be part of the same government of Spain that we lead the Socialists, and that it has promoted, defended and demanded respect for the agreements adopted within the Bureau of Social Dialogue of Spain, which have allowed us to count on the ERTE and that they are extended. And for that reason, his position seems to us to be incoherent in his own terms, for a very simple reason: when we talk about the agreement of the Bureau of Social Dialogue of Euskadi, we cannot forget that the only thing he does is improve the conditions that were agreed at the Bureau of Social Dialogue of Spain for people with a lower contribution base. Are they aware of the absolute contradiction in which they are incurring today? If the agreement of the Bureau of Social Dialogue of Spain is good, which is good, and they ask for respect, which deserves it, for him and for the terms in which it was reached, we do not understand very well what makes them change the criterion for the agreement of Euskadi, which, precisely, improves further the conditions for workers in ERTE with lower contributions. I assure you, we've turned him around a lot and we still don't understand. We have not been so surprised by the PP's request, in its first point, that the political and social dialogue be maintained on a permanent basis, so that such measures have the greatest consensus and support, in order, then, in its fourth point, to call for the Basque Government to change unilaterally what was agreed at the Basque Social Dialogue Bureau, with regard to extraordinary aid. After all, we all know that they have never finished taking very well the tranquillity of this from the Social Dialogue Bureau. And, following with Vox, beyond his amendment, because the paper supports everything, I keep the facts. You voted against the rise of the SMI, the support of the ERTE, the rise of pensions; in short, you have only supported two of the 21 royal decrees to deal with the pandemic socially. I don't think there's much more to say either. However, it is true that both the initiative and the amendments tabled have been somewhat outdated and, to a large extent, exceeded with the approval of the third social agreement in defence of employment in Spain, extending the validity of the ERTE, as well as that of the employment group of the Bureau of the Social Dialogue in Euskadi, in order to extend to the same date the supplement to the public benefits of persons included in an ERTE with lower contribution bases. The Socialists will continue to argue that social dialogue is the right way to continue to agree on the most effective measures to deal with the crisis, and we will continue to bet on the areas of consultation that drive public employment policies, and that are being promoted through the Social Dialogue Bureau. The Socialists support those agreements reached at the social dialogue tables in Madrid and here in Euskadi, because we understand that both figures are fundamental in defending employment during the crisis. And finally, given that there has also been talk of the GIR, the ESAs and the CPV, we are absolutely aware that the economic crisis, caused by the impact of COVID-19, has increased the situations of poverty, exclusion and risk. This Government is committed to ensuring and strengthening social policies, in particular those affecting social inclusion, social services and housing. And with regard to GIR, as there is a point later in the plenary devoted to this, I refer to what Vice-Lehendakari has already told us all here last week. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u25	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u26	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. Gaur, hemen, Gobernuaren ekintza bullzatzen ari gara, Legebiltzar honoren eginkizun bat, eta figure zehatz baten bidez Egypt dugu: legez besteko proposamen baten bidez. It's a honek drill that's been saying. Several parts. And, to this day, Mr Rodriguez, I had only two: the justification and the operative part. And, by then, I had a feeling that this didn't fit; it didn't fit. To make a correct analysis, I have waited for this moment, to hear his speech and his staging, always interesting. That's why I haven't prepared those folders so plasticized, so sustainable, that you do, and I come up with a little, this, that way, right? [Orri beat erakutsi du] If I have to make a summary of this, and it is a summary addressed to the government, let you know, Sailburu Five points: the retroactive effect, the increase in benefits – in addition, it gives us two technical criteria (the cohabitation unit and the regulatory base) – the extension over time of these aids, then the financial muscle, right?, the budget allocation, and, lastly, the structural reform. All right, and we are dealing with that, we are presenting a text on three points: strengthening, strengthening of these aids, as a general rule – Mr Rico has already explained – at one point; at a second point, we are talking about the maintenance in time, the extension – we are agreeing – within the framework of the agreement of the Social Dialogue Bureau, and, at a third point, we are already talking about the structural part, which we will be talking about later. I take the structural part, the withdrawal, not to avoid the debate, but because we have that debate at the last point. And I also draw, if it suits you, point four, so that, as you say today, we can focus more on this particular debate. And we have his three points, because for that, in any case, in point four, there is a tool called partial amendments, which can be used, although it will be endowed, although it will be endowed... We focus on the debate: its three points, our two points, and I think they fit perfectly. They could fit perfectly. Another question of technical analysis that I want to bring here: your ten questions. You've forgotten all ten questions. You ask ten questions to the Sailburu This was also forgotten on Tuesday by Mr. Lakuntza of ELA on a radio show, where he said he didn't know anything about it. Man, the department didn't give it to me; I didn't ask for it from the department, but I just downloaded it – that, surely, if I ask for it, it gives me the Sailburu. Going back to the point. So close in the technical... – apparently, as Mr. Rico has said – so close in the technical and so far in the speech. This increases my initial feeling that something doesn't fit. Something here doesn't fit, and I have my own little theory. You, Mr Rodriguez, either you don't know or you don't want to or you don't let an agreement be reached on this issue. I do not know what he is pursuing with this initiative; something he will pursue to present it. But what I don't have the slightest doubt is that he doesn't pursue the deal. You don't pursue the deal! Mr Hernández, the contracting party to the second part. You. This initiative is not understood without that of a few weeks ago, the ERTE, complements to the ERTE. So clear. The competences: the ERTE there, the complements to the ERTE, here. From the point of view of a working person, this from the competences, the working person says: "My support, right?, economic; they are one, they are one...". You are presenting an amendment to both initiatives. We make an analysis of your amendment, a quantitative analysis and a qualitative one. The quantity, to the one here, to the one today. Three points. ♪ Pum, pum, pum, pum, pum, pum, pum, pum ♪ ♪ Pum, pum, pum, pum, pum, pum, pum, pum, pum, pum, pum, pum, pum, The quantitative. Qualitative. The silence of the impulse, right?, of what you are proposing, of the measures you are proposing. And I, when I read it, didn't give credit. I didn't give credit! There are people here who have their amendment framed. And I'm saying it so you know. You urge your minister, because the entire government is urged; but, at the third point, you urge your minister to... "I urge you, minister, to keep doing what you're doing"... Take it now! Keep doing what you're doing. Go on, Mr Hernandez. You, go on. What does this sound like to me? The car... car... self-congratulation. Self-complacent! Parliamentaryly speaking, you are a complacent yourself with your government in Madrid. Keep doing it. Follow. Follow... And in the aesthetics, continue. Man, work it a little longer. It's not that hard. It's not that hard! Look at us. Work it a little longer. Go on, minister. Insist, persecute, maintain, persist, minister. Something else, isn't it, creative? Keep going? Then I have to make Mr Casanova's amendment and the protocol, and I am demotivating myself too. Keep going...! From appreciation, from appreciation. Recognise yourself. You support a government. Recognise yourself. Because I don't think they can invent that reversible banner in a short time, right?, that allows them to be both at the same time, at the same time, behind the banner and in front. He's having a bad time, I'm sure. Well, it's gonna be worse. And I've got a minute left... In conclusion and in summary, and addressing the Government, the ladies and gentlemen of the Government: you reacted; you reacted to the needs, and you took action. It's obvious; it's objective. They took action. And I believe that we must also take care of the conditions under which these measures were taken. Of changing scenario, terrible scenario, totally changing. And a changing scenario not only globally, but a changing scenario, of change of government, internally. Still, they took those steps. And besides, I think they have..., and what am I going to say, right?, but I'm going to hold back a little bit: I think they've done reasonably well. They've done reasonably well! And in technical terms, referring to those questions that seem to exist, don't they?, answers that do exist; for example, a data. For this reason, Sailburu Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u27	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing on the answers, Mr. Rodriguez, representative of the EH Collector, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'll start with the Socialist Party – it's going to be harder to talk about what the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party has passed on to us. On the Socialist Party, there are certain reflections and questions, at least three, that arise from your intervention. First of them. Aren't the social partners parties? Aren't we and we also a social worker? That would be the first question and reflection. If so, what space for dialogue do we have? Can political parties not dialogue, negotiate and agree on elements relating to the protection of the Basque working class? Second question-reflection. Third question-reflection. If you and we had reached an agreement, of some kind, on any improvement in the programme of extraordinary assistance to self-employed people, who would have opposed the Social Dialogue Bureau? Do you mean that the Workers' Committees or UGT would have opposed, for example, an increase in the amounts of such aid? Or their retroactivity? The truth is that, unfortunately, what we have seen now is that the Social Dialogue Bureau is also used as an excuse, an alibi, not to reach any kind of agreement. In any case, I do not think you want that to be the role of your Social Dialogue Bureau. Because, in fact, of course, today... Of course, there comes a time when that excuse factory, which I was talking about two weeks ago, which has set up the government so as not to reach any kind of agreement, that excuse factory brand ACME, of course, is starting to produce a series of arguments, so, quite surprising. It is no longer what Euskal Herria Bildu takes into account in his proposals, and the problem is what he does not take, or what is left to be seen, or the intention of the proposer, who, although not explicit, speaks of a supposed intention. I mean, it's not what we propose anymore, it's what we don't propose or what we think about our privacy. And of course, if we stretch this argument, if we stretch this argument, especially the argument about the Social Dialogue Bureau, of course, is that we generate unsustainable contradictions. I mean, isn't there a Social Dialogue Bureau in Spain? There is a Social Dialogue Table in Spain. Does this prevent the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and Euskal Herria Bildu from reaching agreements, together with the comrades of Podemos, on matters such as the repeal of labour reform? No, right? No, right? We should therefore be frank in this debate, we should be frank in this debate. The questions that are being debated in this House today, if they are being debated today, are questions such as whether such aid was retroactive or not, about its period of enlargement and application, about an increase in amounts, about whether those amounts are in line with family burdens or family responsibilities, about whether maximum income was increased, and things as basic as those who meet the current requirements have guaranteed that they will receive aid, that if the credit is over, because neither in this so basic has you told us that yes, neither this so basic, nor this so basic, because we are talking about these issues. Of course, because we are told: no, it is that you really want to make such an amendment; no, no, this is what we want. Today, honestly, without being in our lane, without being in our lane, we have located ourselves in its lane, and the only thing we were asking is if we could protect more than 4% of the people affected by an ERTE, nothing more, and we told you, without red lines, without any red lines, that is what is being discussed here. Well, and the PNV representative, well, he's talked long and hard about, well, about my speech two weeks ago and about today's... Sign theory, sign theory, meaning and meaning; you have intervened and, obviously, made use of signifiers but without meaning, signifiers serve to convey a meaning, you do not. And so I understand that, of course, you will have a very busy agenda; but, of course, I have started to talk about the questions that I had brought to the councilwoman, about the 15,000 dossiers... I know that you have a kind of obsession with our colleague Casanova, more pronounced in the case of some members of the Basque Nationalist Party; but, of course, I have started to talk about the questions about help to the autonomous people, not about the questions he asked about these questions, which are six, which are not ten, which are not the autonomous people, which are not 15,000, which are 7,400, which are not solved 7,500 applications...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u29	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u30	...then the papers have been mixed up, and therefore, since there is no meaning behind the signifier, I can hardly argue with you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u31	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Mists, is he going to take the word? He doesn't have to take the word. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u32	Well, I am going to start by asking the President to give Mr Aiartza another ten minutes, because I believe that the majority of parliamentarians have not understood anything about her speech. I think I understand that: I believe that, in the part where you referred to my group, what you did was talk about an amendment we made to a proposal from the People's Party several weeks ago on the ERTE, not to mention the issue we were discussing today and what our position was on this issue. To me it has gone a little crazy; I have looked at the amendment, I say, to see where I speak of the Government of Spain, the point three to which you have referred... No, I am not talking about the Spanish Government in our amendment. But, well, you'll explain it to me in your second speech. For us, the important part of this debate and the substantial part of this debate, I think it has been with the Socialist Party and Mr Rico, whom I recognise that we have had a debate with him – not today, but during these previous days – and we have made an attempt to bring positions closer together. Look, you were referring, if I remember correctly – I have left the notes I have taken –... you were referring to the development or not of the Social Dialogue Bureau and to the fact that in the transaction that we have reached with EH Bildu we did not see that issue, we do not include it. It is true, it is not included, but that it is not included does not mean anything; in fact, you know that we were willing to sign a transaction, where, explicitly, that recognition was made to the Social Dialogue Bureau and to the concrete agreement on aid. Obviously, I with the EH Bildu group may not be able to reach an agreement on those terms; with you, yes, but something else was needed. For our group, it took something more than a statement, than a backlash to the Social Dialogue Bureau; because, of course, we do not share that vision that you have and that you have and that has plagued us with... I do not know exactly what expression you have used, but lack of respect for the Social Dialogue Bureau in Spain and here. We respect the social dialogue tables. When an agreement is reached at those tables, our position is – and it has been my coalition's and the party's life to which I belong –: if we agree with the agreements, we say it, and if we do not agree, from the utmost respect, we can also say it and we say it, and we have said it sometimes. And we say this when there was a pension reform, which they signed unions like mine, Workers' Commissions, to which I am very proud to belong, but we said what our position was, because we are a political organization, and we have political opinion, and that does not imply any disrespect for the agreements of social dialogue. Furthermore, in this particular case we have said – we said it in July and we said it today – that it seems to us to be a good agreement, not only that we respect it, it seems to us a good agreement, but I repeat again what I said in my first speech: for Elkarrekin Podemos and Izquierda Unita, well it is not synonymous with unbeatable, and therefore we think that, if there are proposals on the table in a Parliament to improve these aids, that we have to be there and that we have to push them, and that for nothing is a lack of respect for the agreements in the Social Dialogue Bureau; because, moreover, what is being proposed here, there is nothing that goes against this agreement: they are all positions of improvement, as far as the agreement is concerned. And what gives us the feeling, on the other hand, is that some people stop or use social dialogue to try to avoid debates or try to subtract debates from a parliament. Look, the unions, in social dialogue, want to talk about many things. And we agree and, moreover, it is something that we have always claimed: that the government should talk to them in the social dialogue of many things: for example, also income guarantee income – I think Mr Rodriguez has made reference to this. Does that mean that, if, I hope, they reached agreement on that issue at that table, this is the end of the debate? Are we not going to debate in a legislative parliament on income-guarantee reform, which I believe we are going to discuss later on at the last point? It seems to us that that is to abduct the debate from Parliament. It is not a question of lack of social dialogue; that the political groups here have a position on issues that are dealt with in the social dialogue is not lack of social dialogue. And we're going to defend this. In addition, many of the issues that we raise are going to be defended by the trade unions, precisely in that social dialogue. And I'm done. In social dialogue, which is tripartite, the Government participates, right? We don't participate. The Government participates. And the government will go with a position, won't it? Is it not possible for Parliament, not for Parliament, to tell the government which Parliament believes is the position that the government has to lead to these negotiations? Is that denying the Social Dialogue Bureau or denying social dialogue? No, no, Is it possible that the lehendakari was not positioned, after an initial moment of doubt, in May, when the agreement had not yet been reached...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u33	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u34	...hasn't it been favourably positioned to have these aids? Was social dialogue jumping? No, no, Mr. Rico, I believe you believe in social dialogue...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u35	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u36	... I believe that its governing partners, no, as demonstrated by the previous legislature. Asking them things isn't about skipping social dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u37	Thank you, please finish. Please calculate the times. I'm telling you all, huh? The Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans is the representative of the group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'll be very brief, because... I think it is very good that we are discussing specific proposals on aid and putting duties on the Government and, above all, when we are seeing that this aid is absolutely inadequate and that this Government is not up to the circumstances. But I also want to say today that – and I regret that there is not the lehendakari; I imagine that the councillor and the vice-lehendakari will transfer, properly, what I am going to say next – I think it is also the time for the lehendakari of all Basques to have the deference, in the scenario so complicated that we are living, where they are continually taking measures that are certainly necessary but of a restrictive nature... I believe that the lehendakari should have the deference to immediately convene groups with parliamentary representation. I think we're on a stage, as I was saying, complicated. Action is being taken. We have also seen today the ruling that just came from the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, which does not authorize the limitation to six people, which was one of the measures that was adopted in the past... which were adopted last weekend. This afternoon, the inter-agency coordinating body will reconvene the measures to be taken to deal with this, as I said, very complicated scenario. New measures will surely be taken. This afternoon the Inter-Territorial Council, the body in which the central Government is located and the councillors of the various autonomous communities are also meeting. And, therefore, I believe that, I believe, it is time that the lehendakari, apart from what he has had and that he has the will to open a round with the political parties to talk about... not only from the pandemic, but also from the economic and social consequences. But we do believe, and I want to say so clearly from the People's-Citizens' Coalition, that immediately the lehendakari already has to have the deference to call the political parties with parliamentary representation, to deal with the so complicated scenario that we are living with, the measures that have been taken, the measures that will be taken and, of course, have absolute transparency in relation to the representatives of Basque society. We are going to adopt an absolutely constructive attitude in this... in this sense. I want to say that we are going to support the Government in all those aspects and in all those measures that, obviously, are endorsed by the technical bodies, by scientific experts and epidemiologists... and epidemiologists. But, at the same time, we also have to say, as today is the debate we are having, that we have to arbitrate all those measures that are necessary to help the affected groups. I imagine that the lehendakari will also have things to do at this complicated moment, but I hope, Mrs Vice-Lehendakari, that you will transfer this need to meet immediately the parties represented in this House, and that we are the representatives at the end of citizenship as well. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u39	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u40	Thank you, Madam President. The representative of Bildu said that we should be frank about the debate. I didn't do anything else. Just like you to the second point, you don't... He hasn't done it or he hasn't even done it yet. I have done nothing but express the position of the Socialist Party. And it cannot be missed, because it is the position that we have been defending in this Parliament – as I have said from the outset – during several legislatures, since the Social Dialogue Bureau was resumed in the Patxi López government. And we have done so from the opposition and from the government. So, I don't... I don't understand what... That you may miss. And I'll continue with you later, but I'll start with Podemos. I too believe, Mr Hernández, that you believe in social dialogue. And I also believe that We can believe in social dialogue. And I also believe that we can believe in social dialogue. Therefore, what I do not understand is how you have come to this amendment. That is what we cannot understand: how they have come to this compromise amendment. I will tell you that I believe you have been dragged away by EH Bildu, that you would never have presented this initiative, because if you really believe in social dialogue, what you cannot do is dynamite the agreements emanating from social dialogue. This compromise amendment what comes to say to the unions is "quit yourselves, that we are smarter." That's not social dialogue. Can you imagine going to where your party minister said, "Hey, no, no, but this is what you have put in the third employment defense agreement in Spain, that we are going to change it"? I think he's out of the office, but quickly. It is that agreement and social dialogue tables are serious bodies. And if you believe in social dialogue, if you believe in the Social Dialogue Bureau, you will have to defend the agreements emanating from that body. Coming here to say what you have done "is short", which is what you are saying, is to dynamite social dialogue. They are asking us what the People's and Citizens' Party is doing, for example, in Castile-Leon: to boost social dialogue from the government's representation. They have managed to agree against them on trade unions and employers. That is why we do not understand how they have been able to achieve this compromise amendment. We believe that this is a clear contradiction. And, really, I think you believe in that social dialogue. And I'm not going to go further, because the goal, believe me, is to reach agreements. And I hope to reach agreements as soon as possible, because what is inexplicable is that we agree in Spain and here it gives them vertigo. Regarding EH Bildu, he told me that he asked me three questions. I've scored two. I think there's a third one left in the tinker. You ask me questions, and I'll give you a consideration. The first: are not political parties agents? Yes, I already know that you don't like the Spanish Constitution anyway. Look, Article 6 and Article 7. One, political parties; one, trade unions. Look at each other's functions. With this I answer, I don't have much more time either. Two. If we had reached an agreement here, would the unions have opposed it? I tell you again, I told Podemos: it's not understanding anything, it's not understanding the Social Dialogue Bureau, it's not understanding how it works and it's violating agreements. And in this case, not as in the case of Podemos, I think that was his intention, I think that was his intention. But, look, it's not because I stop to think about what you think at night. No, it is because they have expressed it continuously in this Parliament. You said that's not a model. Well, I hope that positions will be drawn in this legislature and that all the agents who are called to sit on the Bureau of Social Dialogue will be heard. But, man, don't tell me what it's like to interpret dreams. No, no, It's just what they've been saying all along. And that was his intention; it was clearly seen. Not a single mention to the Social Dialogue Bureau, when they know that this agreement they intend to amend has come out of there. And even in the transaction they do not redeem themselves from that sin. And the consideration I'm going to give you. I think you did not understand very well what Vice-Lehendakari said here the other day: it is not the time to compete between institutions, but to collaborate. You've taken a few tables today, confronting people protected by ERTE and RGI. No, I don't. Add them; don't confront them, add them. That is the social protection, the social shield, which we have jointly achieved, the Government of Spain and the Basque Government... And, by the way, consideration. I think you're going to have to call Informatics here, in Parliament, to look at his cell phone, because the calculator isn't going well, it's not going well. If you are telling me that in September there were 1,693 more RGI collectors than in March, what you have said falls by your own weight. Add the tables; do not counter them. I understand that, by your scope, it costs you. But that's the goal. The shield we are developing for the workers is made here, but it is also made in the Government of Spain. ERTE has been very important for tens of thousands of citizens of Euskadi, who have, for example, made them not have to resort to GIR. Nothing more. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u41	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Adarz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u42	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Hernandez, I appreciate you. And, as I appreciate it, I have sent you a wasap with a plan – so that it is not lost, with a plan – which includes your amendment, your amendment to the ERTE, which is what we are talking about today. And, on top of it, I came – he has it, he has it on his cell phone –... And it also reminded me of another matter, which I had not told you before. Well, now, related to these issues I was telling you, we already have some... – I am concerned – we already have some issues on the table, which need to be resolved, from responsibility: the protocol of companies in crisis, its approach to decent work or IT, and the Victims Compensation Fund of the Amianto. [What are you going to do? What are you going to do? Oh, okay. That I had forgotten, but now it has come to me and I have pointed it out here: you see, you urge the Basque Government to support the general budgets of the State. Look at him... The Basque Government has no say in this matter; but it also urges the political forces represented in the House, which I consider to be urged. We have always considered our own budgets to be essential, and we understand that where other political formations govern this too. We want our budgets; we understand that you want your budgets. Perfect. But you don't urge me, but you don't urge me; any of your group, okay... But, well, neither does Mr Martínez; nor do you urge me, Mr Martínez, to support the general budgets of the State. [Are you following the...? He leaves the plan, if not, then Mr Hernández, and can follow the debate.] Mr Rodriguez, I have no obsession with Mr Casanova; he knows it well. I have made reference... – and we have agreed, I think, on many occasions, I have made reference to an initiative of yours that I have to amend, and I was going to put "follow", I was going to put "follow", but when I saw Mr Hernández's amendment, – but in the end, I wanted to be a little more creative; Mr Casanova will see it. 10/6. Yes, you're right: 10/6. Yeah, I've bonded, and I see it. Because as I respect you, I come here to see what you tell me. Until the last moment: 10/6. 10 questions and six questions... The 10 are also for help, uh, the 10 are for help... They are of aid, and the ladies and gentlemen of this Government are responding with such aid, which you denied the greatest at the beginning of your intervention. 10, no 10; 10 plus six. The class. It affected his class. It's always good to learn. And I would like a little one to accept me too, if it suits you – and, from the humility of the student, but applied and with critical spirit; Political Law first; I am of the old plan, Political Law, now already Constitutional, right? Political Law–; I loved the theory of power, I loved the theory of power and, in particular, the power of influence. It is fascinating the possibility of influencing a greater power from a smaller power, the needs that..., the analysis of the needs that this has to do about the needs of the other to influence, that possibility of influence, isn't it? But I see that, with his approach to everything or nothing, he has not taken the point to the tool; he has not taken the point to the tool! It doesn't influence, it doesn't influence, I see it doesn't influence. It presents an initiative here and does not influence it, and that gives me the feeling that it generates frustration; it gives me the feeling that it generates frustration! Don't frustrate, go on, because frustrate the first one is a little... I just have one doubt: I don't know if frustration is that of an actor; it gives me the feeling, – and I hope I don't have to explain this to you in detail – it gives me the feeling that you're acting. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u43	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. We're done arguing and voting, EH Collect, and we're together with the middle-direction signed by Podemos-IU. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 75; in favour 27; the contrary is 48; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u44	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Mistos team. You can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u45	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 75; in favour 6; the contrary is 69; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u46	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 71; votes given, 75; in favour 40; the opponents 35; the contractations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u47	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Exuscal Popular Group-as Céranos was made by parlamentary groups-about the study of the model of the Euscal Autonomia Edi, and the development of the socisitarian space. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs Garrido, who represents the Basque Popularo-Ciudadanos, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The president, the chief physician, the congressman, good day. Well, at the moment, we're looking into the model of the Euscal Autonomia Eremia, and we're presenting the proposal about the Socionation of space. And, well, as we all know, due to the influence of COVID-19, several people have died in the Euskal Autonomia Estros. And if we consider the total number of people who have died, it's the number of deaths they've been at the hotels 37%. We've discussed the centers of the premises several times, and we can't look the other way with what's going on at this moment, and I think it's necessary to reflect on what's necessary. I'm sure it's a different size in the last few years, but we think some of them are late. It is true that, with regard to the management of residential centres and the situation of residences in Euskadi, and seeing the large number of people affected and those who have died, representing 36% of the total number of dead, the Government has taken some decisions. But we do have to say, Madam Counsellor, that we understand that they have arrived late, that they have lacked leadership and that they have – also – not been supporting outside institutions in many of the decisions they have had to make. Not only the outlaws, but especially the residential centers. In this regard, I say that you have adopted a number of measures: one in September, as is a specific protocol for residential centres. And we have also recently known that you have appointed an expert in mental health, to coordinate everything that has to do with the socio-health space. We believe that these measures may be fine, this protocol; we will see how it is put into place. We'll see what the results are. And we will also see if this figure that is going to coordinate, this mental health expert that is going to coordinate everything that has to do with the socio-health space too, serves to give an impetus and, above all, to develop this space in all those areas in which, unfortunately, it is not developed today. Argi eta garbi adierizi behar dugu Eusko Jaurlaritzaren eta foru-aldundien kudeaketa ez dela izan expect zena. I have said this: the management of the Basque Government and of the outlaws, in terms of the management of the health crisis in the residences, was not the right one. There has been a lack of testing; there has been a lack of protection material for professionals who care for our elders. In short, Mr Lehendakari, Councillors, Counsellor, responsible for social services, have lacked clear criteria and concrete guidelines for action in terms of dealing with the measures to be put in place in residential centres. "Para adoptar decixes de cara al futuor, es necesari tener una photoe real de lo que ha sucedido y apreder de los bugas yre de subsanmentus." It is essential to make a thorough reflection. You have to know the deficiencies you've been in. And when we know the stage, and the moment we have that precise photograph, we probably have more means of taking the proper measures. We also believe that there have been deficiencies in the residences, in the management of the residences, in the way our elders were treated and cared for; that is, certain structural problems that were there and that had not fully occurred and that have been able to emerge now when this pandemic, as I said, unfortunately appeared, with a significant number of contagions and deaths in the residential centres of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Therefore, we can say that the residences have been outbreaks of contagion, and have been, not only the most important outbreaks of contagion, but, unfortunately, as I said, a significant number of deaths have taken place. We must also point out that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has always been characterised by state-of-the-art social services. We have been pioneers, we have been an example, on these issues in many respects. And we regret, too..., I know that this is something common – what has happened in the residences – but we here did expect it, and I believe that the whole of Basque citizenship, precisely because it is in that better situation than other autonomous communities, in terms of the availability of resources and in terms of the development of the Basque Social Services System itself, also hoped that this crisis could be better managed in residential centres in the Basque Country. In this regard, the Group of the European People's Party considered it appropriate to submit a non-legislative proposal to deal with these issues, which I will go on to explain quickly: we ask the Basque Government to carry out a process of evaluating the residential model in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, with the aim of analysing the shortcomings or problems that have existed and that have been especially highlighted in this pandemic, and then, after taking this real picture of the situation of residential centres, to propose the measures or changes necessary for the provision of a service that meets the needs of users and their families. On the other hand, we are going to ask and again urge the Government – I believe it is somewhat repetitive that we make all groups in all the debates we are having on this issue – to review the famous decree of residential centres; that decree that came late, I arrive badly, even with warnings from the bodies themselves that prepared reports for the adoption of this decree. And in that sense, seeing those deficits presented by this decree, we do consider... and so the Basque Parliament also approved it in a parliamentary agreement, I believe that the last was the adoption of an amendment by the People's Party on this issue, which had the votes of Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu and the People's Party, in which we urged that this decree of residential centers be amended. We also ask that, once and for all, and this is indeed an issue that the People's Party introduced into the Social Services Act when it was debated in 2008, the relevant high-level inspection work be carried out, in order to, well, monitor or establish the control and coordination mechanisms that are necessary with the outlaws, in order to exercise the powers entrusted in the proper way. And, on the other hand, something that, well, appears in the Government Program, but it also appeared in the previous Government Program of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, which is all that has to do with the socio-health space. The socio-health area has not been properly developed. The second Strategic Plan for Social Services is planned. It is also planned to complete the portfolio of the Basque Social Services Service, with regard to the elderly. And also a new integral model of social and health action. But these were also forecasts that were contemplated in the government programme of the previous legislature, and we believe that the balance sheet in this particular area of the social and health area leaves much to be desired. And therefore, Mr Lehendakari, Members of the Government, Madam Counsellor, let us hope that this development and the development of the strategy or even the development of a new strategy in relation to the social and health area must be an absolute priority. Another thing, another question, which also has to do with the social health area, is the health expenditure that brings to the outside institutions, in which the outside institutions are involved. And in compliance with the portfolio decree, I too believe that it is time for this health expenditure to be quantified and assumed, which, in the case of Álava, is very clear that the Basque Government has not taken on board. That is why we believe it is also necessary today to open this debate in relation to the analysis of the model of residences that we have: to have a fixed picture of the situation, where the failures, the deficits have been, and, of course, to take the necessary measures. I know that, as the counsellor said, her department is taking some measures; but, no doubt, well, we will also examine whether they are working. And in any case, we also believe that they have arrived late and that there has been a lack of leadership and there has been some improvisation and lack of certain criteria directed, well, at all institutions, by the Basque Government and, especially, at centres that provide services to the elderly, such as residential centres. With regard to the amendment tabled by EH Bildu, which is the only..., well, of the opposition, it is the only amendment that has been tabled, well, apart from some question on which we could introduce some nuances, well, because there is a point of coincidence, and, in that sense, obviously, we will not oppose it. Because I believe that they also speak clearly of carrying out a process of evaluating the residential model, they speak of the famous decree, so many times mentioned, which we have urged the Government to refer it to this House, they speak of the competence of high inspection, and they also speak of the decree of the health services portfolio. We therefore believe that these are also timely issues that have been introduced in this debate. And finally, with the amendment of the groups that support the Government, which I imagine will come out again, we also have another manifestation of the shape of the roll of this majority, in this legislature, of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. To me, of course, none of your spokesmen has been addressed, so I understand that they did not want to widen the agreement, nor did they want to continue, as I said, seeking a broader agreement, which I understand was Mr Lehendakari's initial intention when he was talking about widening country agreements. But, day after day, we see that in this Parliament these agreements do not widen and that you simply confine yourselves to making speeches in which we do not see... and approaches in which we do not see any sort of self-criticism and in which you simply propose to continue with the policies being carried out, which, as I have said in my speech, because in our view, are insufficient and much more could be done on this issue. Well, we will obviously not support your amendment, and especially given that you have not had the desire to address us by making any proposals in this regard either. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u49	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mr. Rodriguez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. The chairman of the department, members of the legislature, good noon again. Two weeks ago we had the opportunity to discuss the serious situation in the residential centres of the elderly in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Then, in my turn of reply, I expressed the sincere frustration and uneasiness that produced the predictable outcome of that debate. To this end, as I said before and as discussed in the previous debate, I resorted to a symbol: I broke a sheet. That gesture overturned the bench of the main government party and then also revolutionized its president. As, by the way, it did not stir, it did not, the testimony I read in this rostrum, the testimony of Carmen, that director of a small residence, who expressed her sorrow for the death of Eugenia. To you, as I said before, I just want to remind you that it is important to distinguish between meaning and meaning. I will not say that my mood has changed today in the face of a result, a outcome, which is predictablely similar; my mood has not changed much. I will not heed Mr. Aiartza's recommendations, basically because I prefer to follow Antonio Gramsci and think of that of "pesimism in my intellect, optimism of the will". So let's get to the point. What does the Popular party propose to us today? For the fourth time in law, for the fourth time! I'm asking you to announce the order for old funkongs. This new rule, this new regulation, was settled in the July of the year before, by representing the regulation that was 22 years old. It belonged to someone who does not care for age and does not care. To describe this reality, I can use my words, but I prefer to extract passages from dozens of reports and allegations which the decree received through the avenue. But before we begin, consider the importance of the matter: at the present day, more than 18,000 persons who have a dependency live in the houses of the community, and more than 13,000 workers are employed in those centres to guard them. The legal advice of the Directorate of Services of the Department of Employment and Social Policy itself on the decree was as follows: "It is not provided in the memoirs accompanying the dossier justification at all. We can only reiterate what has already been mentioned at the beginning of this report, as regards the need for a technical basis for analysing the reasonableness of the specific options set out in the draft"; that is, the daily care of thousands of dependents and the working conditions of thousands of women workers had been regulated without any technical basis. Not busy or worried. Let's move on. The third social sector, in an arrangement presented to the decree project, made the following remark on the decree: "Coremos el riesgo de tenersidencias arquituctónicamente maravillosas, pero askas del input A decree that suffered from multiple inconsistencies and inconsistencies. In fact, the Euskadi Legal Advisory Commission deals in its opinion with the decree of – open quotes – "to unravel its possible meanings" – closed quotes. A regulation that was defined in this way by the third social sector: "A draft with a lot of lyrics, but with a content more than questionable in fundamental aspects, real sensitivity of staff ratios 'to the profiles of residents'"; that is, the number of words in the text increased, while the time of care received by people was reduced. And ladies and gentlemen, as a text, people are not treated as residents, but with hours of care. Not worried or busy. As was the case in the previous decree, in this text too, the staff ratio of the new decree was reorganized 20 years later into two single user profiles. In this regard, the third social sector also expressed the following: "To deny that the profiles attended in 2017 have little to do with the reality of 1998 would be a dare when not a total disconnection with the current configuration of the residences, total disconnection with the reality of the growing difficulty of care of the more than 18,000 dependent people attended in the residential centers". Not worried or busy. I said in a business I had just mentioned that the centers of the mansion, as a architecture, would be wonderful. But were the centers of the community really wonderful in architecture? That was true. Well, on the July before, I was given the first page: "El 75% de las Squares en las residencias vas deberans ser in Indovulales en dos años." But it was a lie. It was a lie! As it was received in the first transitory decree of the decree, the centres of the mansions in motion ought not to supply any new material conditions. I mean, the material reality of 350 centers would never change. I'm preocupados I'm occupados. So little concern and occupation brought them the care of the more than 18,000 persons attended that the Euskadi Legal Advisory Commission carried out the following reflection on the decree: "It is the impression that the contents of the annexes to the 1998 decree have been brought to the articulated text, not all the adaptations required by this translation have been made. The title of the paragraphs is a good example of this. Paragraphs should set an idea in a full sentence, which does not happen." Said Leo McGarry, President Bartlet's chief of staff in The West Wing of the White House I could continue to read the opinions which the decree we are discussing today deserved, but I think it was enough. What explanation do you find all of the above? All that nonsense about how we regulate the care of 18,000 people? Neither concerned nor busy, I have repeated to you throughout my speech. Actually, I admit I haven't been quite fair. They are concerned that they have been, but because of the economic impact of any measures taken. And all of this, unfortunately, is summed up in that: limiting the investment our country makes in caring for the elderly. In this it consists all: to limit the investment that this country makes in the care of the elderly, so this decree applies, and I do not say, it was recognized by the Arab Foral Diputation itself in the allegation presented to the decree. I will read a paragraph: "Attention to dependent elderly people is one of the country's challenges that we must face with limited economic resources and, therefore, the establishment of new obligations must be properly considered, with the aim of ensuring a proper economic balance". End of date. Today, the People's Party is pursuing that Parliament – for the fourth time, for the fourth time, in a year – places itself in the revision of the decree regulating residential centres for the elderly. A generic, generic site, to which, although initially opposed by the groups supporting the Government, because the first time they voted against, they then joined enthusiastically. And it is that, already explained by the spokesman of the PNV in the last debate that we held: "Let's talk about revision, not change". Schopenhauer said that every truth goes through three phases: first, it is ridiculed; second, it is violently opposed, and the third is that it is accepted as evident. In the case of government groups, the German philosopher should be corrected – or matified – and said that: first, he is ridiculed; second, he is violently opposed; and third, he is accepted but emptied of effective content. In short, according to Euskal Herria Bildu, it is not time for generic sites. It is not a matter of agreeing texts to then do epigraphy exercises; it is time to act. Let's not cheat on the loner. We are not talking about an accessory public service or a second service. We are talking about the lives of 18,000 people, how they spend the last years of their lives, how they are cared for, cared for, considered and treated since they get up, cleaned, dressed, listened to, smiled, asked how they are or given food, how long a caregiver spends them. So let's put aside circumloquees, please, and let's be honest about our respective political positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u51	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u52	Thank you very much, President. Today we again discuss the residential model in the Basque Autonomous Community. We have already pointed out, both in the plenary session of 1 October and in the plenary session of 8 October of this legislature, that the pandemic has shown, with greater intensity, on the table, a question of the functioning of the care system as a whole at state level. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, we first discussed an amendment tabled by the Elkarrekin Podemos Group on the creation of a presentation of the care system in the plenary session of 1 October. The second was presented by the EH Bildu group on the preparation of these residential centres for the elderly, in the face of the second wave of the COVID-19, which we discussed on October 8 and where the amendment to the whole presented by the Basque nationalist group and the Basque socialist group was approved in plenary. And the third is that which we are debating today, which was initially rejected by Parliament's Bureau on the grounds of repetition, but which, in response to the appeal submitted by the People's and Citizens' Group, was admitted to procedure. But, although the exhibition has changed somewhat, we actually find ourselves, within it, with proposals very similar to those that appeared in the initiative already discussed on 8 October. That is why the Basque nationalist group and the Socialist group tabled, when this initiative came in, the same amendment to the whole that we had tabled with the initiative discussed on 8 October. And we put forward the arguments that led us to that decision. We understand the interest of all groups in presenting initiatives in this area, as senior residences have suffered the greatest impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. But, by presenting all of them in early September, they have coincided in their approaches, and they have not been accumulated. But, of course, since the proposal is very similar to the previous one, little is going to be possible, but only 13 days have passed since its last debate. Not that we're not looking for the deal, Mrs. Garrido. You say, "No one has turned to us." Man, the initiative is yours; you can take the initiative, right?, to call the different groups to see if an agreement can be reached. The one who has not called anyone has been you, who has presented the initiative. Of course, we have not, because we saw that the initiative was almost the same as the one we had just discussed on 8 October. And that is why we, as I said, had made the same amendment approach to the whole that was adopted, by the way, as I said, that very same October 8. We have already indicated in that debate that the Basque Socialists considered that we must continue to build the commons, public services as a fundamental guarantee, and we must have a strong public service. And that is why, in the government agreement, we have attached great importance to this. I explained it in the previous plenary and I will repeat it now: people are the fundamental element of the political commitment of our Government's action; the commitment of the Basque Government is to consolidate and strengthen public health and education services and to ensure all social policies that contribute to the human development of Basque society. The Basque Country has been a pioneer community in the implementation of these inclusion policies, in the fight against poverty and in the development of these social services. And the progress that has been made has been significant, and we are aware that we are addressing, at this time, a critical period also because of the negative effects that we suffer from the pandemic. That is why, in the Government agreement, we express our commitment to progress towards elimination and to achieve an increasingly just, equitable and inclusive society, without leaving anyone behind. And, in response to this commitment, the Basque Government points out the agreement that will guarantee and strengthen social policies, especially those affecting inclusion and social services and housing. The commitment to the development of the Basque system of social services is reflected, taking into account the Community approach and the principles of quality, innovation and new balance. To this end, the second Strategic Plan for Social Services will be drawn up and the Inter-institutional Social Services Fund will be consolidated in order to ensure the provision of the services covered by the Social Services Portfolio Decree. We plan to evaluate and complete the benefits portfolio of the Basque Social Services System. And, in accordance with the Government's agreement, we undertake to adapt the decree regulating residential centres. We also approved in plenary, as I said on 8 October, the reiteration of that commitment. It is also pointed out that a follow-up will be carried out on the investment of the pyramid of care and a comprehensive strategy will be planned, enhancing the services to people living in their usual home, in order to guarantee them full life-saving autonomy. The institutional plan to combat unintended loneliness will also be launched. There is a commitment to enhance basic social services to improve care for the elderly at home, and programmes for the respite of caregivers will be strengthened. Ultimately, a new comprehensive model of social and health care coordinated with the primary health care network for the elderly will be promoted. In short, the Basque Government is carrying out... This is an important work at the moment, as I have pointed out, and it is reflected in the government agreement. Next Monday, we will be able to listen to the Social Policy Advisor. She will tell us, Mrs Artolazabal will tell us, all the strategic lines of this government in the Monday committee, and we will be able to go much deeper into all those commitments. For this reason and on this occasion, and for what I have indicated, as is already a repetition of what we have already been debating and agreed at the plenary session on 8 October, we will also defend the amendment to the whole of the Basque nationalist group and the socialist group, which, as I have indicated, coincided with and collects the same commitment from the revision of Decree 126/2019 of residential centres, and the Basque Government is urged from the Basque Parliament to continue to implement, in collaboration with the deputies, the general social health contingency plan, drawn up in order to coordinate and plan the resources for the proper management of the socio-health centres in Basque, and to promote this comprehensive model of social health care and coordinated with the primary health and social network for the elderly. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u53	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. Well, I want to start this speech, with your permission, with a phrase that I've heard since my childhood, which the owners used to say to me. And they said: "Don't you lose all we ever had." In fact, this phrase, well, from what perspective it is to be seen, may be found a different meaning. But today I would like to make sense to him in order to maintain a good quality of life in perspective. We will all agree when we assert that our grandmothers and grandfathers did their best in the succeeding generations, in order that our generations might live better, and now it is our duty to express our true gratitude for them. They have unfortunately suffered the direct consequences of this pandemy, which our lives have turned upside down, and that is a fact. That's right. But, at the same time, I mean that I am very much concerned about it, and I am truly sorry for some groups, I have not said the toxic use of all this situation, and, I think, a perfectly altercistic discourse. By this I do not mean that what is right or that is not approved of censure, or that we are to fall into self-consciousness. It has often been mentioned before that he plunges into the autonexcision of the letter. I don't say that. We are aware that this situation will lead to very serious consequences, and that it will be imported into several different districts of society. But it is true that in such a crisis we often see all the works which have hitherto been done, and all the efforts which have really been accomplished, or have been destroyed. And in our case, I think it has not been destroyed at all, though in some cases it has been willing to pass that way, el famso octo peor, mejoor. Sabemos y creemos, verderamente, que en satación es necemegare la mejora constante, la adecuación e impulso de spurens para poter respitante a la realidad que tumos vivendido. Y así se esta seeded. Since this crisis began, we were shown by the three soldiers who had tried to adapt and improve their resources from co-ordination and co-operation. And we have an example of this, for example, in the San Joses residence of Ordizia, which, though positive, has been set up a new square of 58 old men, who have no symptoms, added to the 56th square which has hitherto been in the Eyrie. This is only an example, and we have always said that in case they are states to be considered, but it is evident that the adaptation and strength of improvement and resources have been advanced. And not the way Mrs Garrido said that the government is looking at something else. At the first moment, in the first wave of the pandemia, there was a very serious situation in the hotels. And the right answer was given, but it was paid. But in this second manifestation of panic the answer has been much more favourable, the regeneration has been maintained and the residents have been better protected, and families visitations are also becoming better and progressing for the end of life. In this case, we must have these adaptations and strengths, because the virus is here, and we must adapt ourselves to it. My dear friend, even the other day, it was clear that he intended to adjust the decree of the emancipation, learned by those who had been taught in this new situation, considering all the labours and reflections that would be about it, and that those who came from it will be able to observe this decree. It's a tough situation, we know it's very hard too, and we've always agreed that at the beginning of the crisis the situation took us unawares. But it must be admitted, as far as we can learn, that the 'Ringinger' is a new name for us all, when we are all going about to adapt ourselves, and make decisions which have a positive influence. Las instinciness vascas there tomado decisis que teni consecenscias positivas. Lehengoan irakurri nuen tavern batak Atean, kartel bat irakurri nuen, Eta exacten zuen: "Surprise fortune tellers. Only the one who makes decisions is right or wrong. He who does not, does not." Eta ikusi ahal izan da, bigarren olatu honetan, adin nagusiko personsonen egotizek hobetu eutsi dietella kutsatzeei, erabaki horien ondorioz. Horregatik, ebaluatia eta hobekuntza dira guk posetzen ditugunak. We understand that it is up to us to take a long-term care approach; life expectancy is increasing every day. That is why there are new challenges and challenges to be addressed, and our institutions are in that task. If the elderly person wants to stay at home, we must extend this autonomy as much as possible, through support, and offer alternatives at home, in line with the life projects, desires and needs of the elderly. Instead, if the person is in greater need of care and needs a residence, we must offer him or her a service as close as possible to his or her home. Our almonds have already expressed in what model of habitation they would fain go to. But that needs a process. It's not something you get from one day to another. And for that, they are at work, even before the virus. We all want our masters to be guarded as best we can. Everybody. Governments too. Hence, as I have said, adaptations and changes are being made in the centres, in order that the daily attention offered may be more integrated and more personal. Well, I've been passing through our middle course to show you how far we've penetrated. But, well, I won't be long, because at last Mrs. Sánchez has mentioned the points of our middle course, and what is also said in the history of the Government. Then don't repeat it. I'll keep going. For this reason, for what Mrs. Sánchez says, we will defend our middle course, because we believe it is a path to follow. We believe, in this medium, that at certain points, most of us will agree, but I have not seen the attitude of making an agreement. It is a great pity, then, that two weeks ago should be in the same state, in respect of this subject. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Passing over to the non-correction teams, Mistya, your word, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u56	Good morning, again, everyone. First of all, I would like to thank the People-Citizens Group for bringing this issue back to Parliament. Although, as usual, this debate is going to come out of rather little; of course, nothing concrete and that really brings something good to those living in residences, to those who require coordinated health and social care, to those who work in them or manage them. In the elderly residences of the Basque Country we also see the results of the poor management carried out by the different administrations in this health crisis. The central Government is now talking about an early plan to combat COVID-19. The Basque Government is improvising measures without a clear script, without a precise objective, beyond the surveillance of contagion. And the deputies announced, at the beginning of the month, inspections in the residences, seven months after the start of a pandemic that has left more than 700 people residing dead in our autonomous community. Of course, we need an in-depth analysis of the situation in which our residences are located. Of course, we must commit ourselves to improving the care given to our elders. Also with the improvement of the work of those who work in them. And the question is, why hasn't it been done to date? Why the inspection now and not in June, for example, what are they waiting for in the Basque Government, in the Chambers, perhaps in the third wave? And the urgency is obvious: resident people who require priority care, because the coronavirus feeds especially with them; families very concerned about the health of their elders, people they can hardly see, to whom they do not even approach to minimize the risk of contagion; professionals who work in senior residences in very precarious conditions, in public residences and also in private residences, all surpassed by the eruption of a terrible virus; professionals also exposed to the virus and management teams surpassed by a sad reality, needing firm support, of a script to follow, of a plan, that plan that we have already given up waiting; indeed, a plan for all public residences with concerted and also private places. On the other hand, I have been listening to the leaders of different institutions of the Basque Government and of the deputies announcing the early arrival of what they call a social health space, that framework of collaboration in which to provide coordinated health and social care that requires anyone, but the reality is tenacious. Thus, just a few days ago, a media outlet emphasized the appointment of a new communications officer within the Health Council, a person responsible for coordinating health care and social care. In fact, this same medium published the testimony of some professional from Osakidetza, who certified that each one focuses on their field of action and hardly collaborates with each other: health professionals on health issues, social professionals on social issues. This is the scenario in 2020 and it has been for decades. Thus, the socio-health space has become an unattainable object, something unreal, necessary but unreal. Today PP and Citizens bring to this plenary the need to focus on residences, to really put it. Bildu delves further into the problem, although it gives the impression that they never remember private residences, and the government team gives us one of those motions with which parliamentary activity will water the entire legislature: to continue making, to continue insisting, to move towards comprehensive plans, that form of roller that is exploiting from day one and that is now repeating, avoiding a debate that must occur, avoiding any hint of self-criticism, and the PNV bears responsibility in this area of government and in the three parliaments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u57	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mrs. González, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u58	Eguerdi on, mahaiburu anderea, mahaikideak eta legebiltzarkideok. I sense that by age most of us and we have visited some elderly residence in recent times and that what I am going to tell you will resonate with you. Says the writer and illustrator Paco Roca that any work is born of the need to understand; Beraz, Droughts Droughts It's a hard job, full of emotion, that keeps us up and down. With the power of literature, it prepares us for our future. While at the same time, as long as we can, he asks us to be more amiable, and calls upon our forgotten humanity. If anyone gets excited, both the comic book and the movie Droughts As we did a few weeks ago when we talked about this issue, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, we want to dedicate a moment to the people who are in the residences of our community living, resisting, sick, losing their lives in spaces that should provide them with dignity and care. También queremos un menstina de immomo a las labororos de las residencias, conscentes de la tensio y alert con la que están laboro cadando, cada una, cada hora. They also have suffered these causes from the persons they watch, and from those who work with them. They have suffered and suffered the effects of privatized services, which for the past three years nothing has been evolved. Their demands have been logical and social justice. They demand something as basic and just as decent working conditions and quality care for the thousands and thousands of users of their homes. We also want to dedicate a moment to the families of the residents, to the anxiety with which this situation lives, to non-contact, to illness and, in other cases, also to death. to them the associations and citizen platforms that are denouncing and promoting initiatives for a change in the residential model. They are the new protagonists to which we have to listen, to which we have to take into account, as is the case with the reports sent by the Helduak Adi or the SOS Residences platform, and from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we are doing so. The institutions have been taking ill care of age for years, and the serious state of subsistence does not follow the crisis of the coronabirus. No. This crisis was spontaneous, it has been exposed and aggravated by the small importance which the institutions have given him of the profession and of the sector suffering crisis. What we are experiencing has made us see the fragility, the insufficiency and, in many cases, what brings the precariousness of the public services with which we count, which have been unable to give a more effective response; the lack of human and material resources has been shown; we have also been able to see the differences between the outlying and public management residences and private residences with or without concerted places. It is clear that the model of residence has shown weaknesses which, regrettably, have made them one of the main sources of contagion. Therefore, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, we believe that it is urgent to work on a new public care system, a strong, public, community-based, integrated, integrated system that ensures the quality of care and, above all, that it is people-centred. It is necessary and easy to make a deep discussion of the place in society, and especially the system in which the old man looks after, paying special attention to the houses and domestic aids, very privatized, feminised, and premeditated services. One of the axes of this care system, that of residential centers, must be configured around a model based on the concept of home We must not perpetuate a model of medicalized residential care. We must rethink and model these centers from the idea of places of collective and shared growth, where we continue to develop ourselves as people, with the necessary comprehensive care. And today I want to highlight, and we want to mention, what for Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita should include from now on that residential model. The first would be an assessment of the viability of the most affected residences and their incorporation into the public network, where the incidence of positives is greater than 30%. Secondly, residences equipped with gerontological health personnel, from the public system, that guarantee personalized care, not only to alleviate the crisis experienced, but for prevention, to prevent the deterioration of the health of our elderly, to reduce dependence and to promote their autonomy. In order to achieve all this, you must increase the ratios and defend a different housing model, and leave behind the macro-virital patterns that you thought of putting costs on the center of the old and not the old. An adaptation of the protocols to ensure care and communication with the families of the residents and the accompaniment in the duel. A system that ensures the conversion into indefinite contracts of existing templates prior to COVID, since the eventuality in the sector is 40%, and ensures the continuity of recruitment of staff who have now been hired to deal with the pandemic. A strengthened portfolio of social and SAR services, with extraordinary job exchanges. A reliable labour inspection, ensuring that all persons working in residences have adequate protective equipment and that care ratios are not affected by an emergency. Very important for us is the creation of a council of participation in all residences, where the participation of women workers, residents and their families in the areas of management is encouraged. Now more than ever, to keep open communication with sector employees and socialists, to see what conditions they need to strengthen. To intervene in the infrastructures, in the spaces, in the rooms; it is necessary to avoid that the physical isolation is also social and emotional. And to extend these actions to the network of private residences, of which it is not known with certainty their situation; it should not be possible to subcontract to private companies that do not have an employment agreement. The care of the elderly and the health of women workers must be guaranteed. Kasu horretan, esku-hartze publikoarekin ere, bermata dago, gure adinekoen zaintza weretzukizun komuna delako. Woven fabrics of Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u59	Thank you, Mrs. González. Like I said, there's a smell of smoke. There is also smoke, but it is due to an event that is happening outside: they have set fire to some of their hounds, or, well, they have lit them, and that's what comes of us. Well, we're gonna take the answers round. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief physician. Congressmen, good morning, again. Well, the representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party must be told that if so many initiatives are presented on the same issues, it is because they will be topical issues, they will be issues that the groups, we understand, worry the citizens. It is not only issues that are being presented in this legislature, at the beginning of this legislature, but many of them are already issues that come from initiatives of the previous legislature. You, too, have to reflect; perhaps it is because the mandates or agreements of this House have not been fulfilled; perhaps it is because this government is not up to the circumstances. Perhaps it is because this Government has not even fulfilled its own commitments in this area. I want to say that nothing is random and that they are recurrent and important issues, and, in addition, they are issues that concern citizens and are issues that are currently on the table. Well, in relation to getting in touch or not, look, I want you to tell them, but the last legislature called tomorrow, afternoon and night, even if they weren't the proponents of the initiatives. I have been closing agreements until very late because the groups supporting the Government were interested because they were not in a majority position. If I understand that you are in a majority position and, well, it is very comfortable. But then don't tell us later that they want to widen the deal. I mean, don't cheat on yourself in solitary. That is to say, if you want to widen the agreements, it is logical that you should put yourselves to it and try to widen and enlarge those agreements and look for greater — therefore, a greater consensus on the proposals that can be adopted in this House. But don't tell us you want to look for broader agreements and then you do nothing to look for those broader agreements. And for nothing, it's an alarmist speech. I think they're putting things on the table. And above all, I believe that the data accompany the situation described here in relation to the residential centres of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. It is not a matter of alarmism; it is a question of putting on top, as I said, that the data unfortunately corroborate it: of the percentage of the deceased, of the total of the deceased in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, almost 37% have been in residences. Not to mention all people who have become infected in residential centers. Not to mention that residences have been one of the main outbreaks of infection. Not to mention the wrong decisions also made at first by the Basque Government, to take the sick out of some residential centre, as happened in Vitoria, and to move them to other centres, thus causing harm to the elderly themselves, many people with chronic diseases, and their own families. I think that, too, a little humility and sometimes let go of self-congratulation, this government would do well. And I think it is necessary that, above all, having boasted..., and I believe that we have all felt and are proud of the social services we have and the attention we have to our elders, but we have to be aware that, in this case, there are issues that have not been done well, that have come up with problems in the residences and in the management of the residences in the day-to-day that were there, and that, now, no doubt, have come up in the management of this pandemic. And the only thing that is intended is for the Government to get to work, for there to be a real picture of the situation, for the situation to be detected where the failures have been, for errors, and for appropriate action to be taken. Nothing more. With complete humility and an absolutely constructive spirit. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u61	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Collect EH, Mr. Rodriguez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u62	Thank you, Mrs. President. Well, maybe we should split up two debates. While two weeks ago we spoke specifically about crisis management in the residential centres of older people in our community, today the debate that the People's Party was putting before us was more related or had a direct relationship with the regulation of residential centres approved in July last year, published in September last year and requested that this Parliament review in October. Make that distinction, yes a point. A point, because I didn't have the chance, or I did, even though I gave up on it, about managing the crisis in the centers. I think it is important that certain speeches, sometimes somewhat grandiose, about what has been done or invested, so we must see them in comparison with the budgets. It's the best way to move that reality. Of course, if we go to the budget of August, to the social expenditure of the parliaments, the truth is that this grandilocquency of the effort is not reflected, if we compare the budget execution of August of this year with that of August of the previous year, right?, increments around one, two, three, the highest; we must recognize, the Gipuzkoa Diputation around six. That said, let us go to a question, to the question before us, which is the question of the decree. And I said, at the end of my previous speech, therefore, that it was appropriate that we should be honest about the proposals, the political proposals that each one of us defends. So, I did want to do some... One question, in fact; I'm just going to ask one question. Well, we are being talked about, it has been written on the program, and I also want to take advantage, because the counselor is here, to ask her directly, and she has also reminded the spokesman of the main group of the Government that the commitment is about the revision, I believe, revision and adequacy of the decree. That is the commitment, review and adapt Decree 126/2019. That's the approach. Of course, my question is in relation... that is, what elements of review and adequacy. Because we have been told, and it has been said today and in previous debates, that we are going to learn from what happened, isn't it?, we are going to learn from what happened, correct me if I am wrong, and from that learning from what happened during the management of the crisis is going to change, if appropriate, Decree 126/2019. Is that so, Counselor? Just sit me down with my head. Is that what you're gonna do? Don't sit me down, don't... Yeah, that's what you're gonna do. Ah, you don't know what you're gonna do. So, of course, because this gives me a little surprise. And it gives me a little bit of surprise; because, of course, when we are told, over and over again, now, now that we are going to proceed to review and adapt – that is the commitment and the action of the Government – that decree adopted in July last year, with the learning of crisis management, that is what we are asked, it generates some doubts for me. Some doubts, because this decree is not in force. This decree has an additional provision, which clearly indicates that the centres have a period of two years to comply with the rule. It would therefore enter fully into force, in terms of material and personnel requirements, by September 2021. Therefore, residential centres have been governed during the crisis by the Decree of 98, in terms of material, functional and personnel requirements. So, of course, I'm a little surprised. Of course, they'll say, "The frustration." Of course, how can I not feel frustration if we do not even know what rule was being applied during the crisis, and under what decrees the residential centers of older people have been governed. It's normal to feel frustration. It's normal to feel frustration! Therefore, I am sure that they will clarify this point in more detail in the appearance and in the opportunity that you will have on Monday to explain in detail what you intend to do with that decree that was adopted in July last year and was published in September, which has not been the one that has governed during the management of the crisis, in which you have continued to govern a decree of the year 98, because it is clearly established in the decree that they are not fully in force and that they have two years to adapt to that reality. By the way, that many centres said that in order to adapt to the reality of the new decree, and it is in writing and can be consulted in the decree file, they had to fire staff, in order to adjust to those new ratios that were going to improve care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u63	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u64	Let's see, Mr. Rodriguez. Do not use me as an ordinary plenary to ask questions to the Councilwoman for Equality, Social Policy and Justice, Mrs Artolazabal, who cannot answer you in plenary, and you try to answer you. Of course, use a full control, or go to the committee next Monday, where you will present all the government's lines of action, so that you can answer it. And I'm sure he will, and very broadly. Mrs. Garrido, may you say that the measures have come late, that there has been a lack of leadership... It's just, I'm surprised a lot. And I'm sure a lot of people here are a little perplexed. Because what have you done in the Community of Madrid? You come here for good... which seems to ask others to... which casts doubt on everything that is done, that there is no test, that there is no equipment, that there is no criteria... But what have you done in the Community of Madrid? And now you're telling me, oh yes, you're missing money? [Keinu beats eskuarekin's egg] And it tells us that the others have not sought the agreement... But, let's see, that is that I repeat to you – I told you in the first intervention – if you have presented the initiative, you take the initiative of trying to reach an agreement. Why didn't you call us? Why didn't you try? Because you yourself know that this initiative is repetitive, and you yourself do not believe in what you are presenting. And he doesn't defend it, to look for agreements with the rest of the groups. If you thought you could reach an agreement, you would have tried. Don't blame others for what you haven't done, because you're the one who presented the initiative and you're the one who had to take that initiative, worth the redundancy. That is why we, as I said in my first speech, tabled an amendment as a whole, since the points that were taken up in this initiative of the People's Party-Citizens with which we had just discussed at the plenary session on 8 October are quite similar. And that is why we are going to defend the same amendment as a whole, because it also sets out precisely what measures we want to take. It also states that we want to review the comprehensive model of social and health care, and indicates the commitments of this Government in this area. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u65	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u66	Thanks again. Well, let's see if I can answer anything, because there's a lot of things going out here. Well, first of all, Mrs Garrido said the protocol started in September. Yeah. And you mentioned that we must see the results of the Hondinos. Well, before we see the results, we don't get ahead of what's going on, do we? That's for starters. Gero, be duzu "which are recurring issues that are brought back to this House over and over again, and that the goal is to put the issue on the table." It seems good to me, but it is that, by putting the subject on the table, nothing is achieved, that is, agreement is needed, dialogue is needed, which is precisely what we have not had. Twelve minutes – I've looked at the clock, eh –... twelve minutes it took you to say the word "roll". I was waiting. I was waiting to see how long it took you. And that is what Mrs Sánchez said: my logic says that, if you bring the initiative here, you will have to take the initiative to talk to the groups and try to agree. But my phone didn't ring. And I don't know if the rest sounded. But, come on, bring it to the table, bring it to the table, it doesn't work out here. And what I want to ask you is why this time it hasn't been so, why this time there hasn't been that will of agreement. I think it's because there's a clear goal. And the clear objective is not to agree on this issue with all groups; I believe the clear objective is, euskraz esaten den moduan, politicikeria Egyptea eta alderdikeria Egyptea, éta ez politicika Egyptea eta benetako akordiotara helpzea. More, "a ver," I've covered myself from here... All right, order's on hold. Decree is in force. What we plan here is to consider the present situation, and, accordingly, to make a revision. But the order is in effect. He's strong. And it's been working all this time. But, well... And then, after we heard the discussion, we had a couple of weeks ago in the pliant, a thing that was said by Leixus, my colleague, and I'm more and more convinced that I've been making fun of her... and I am more and more convinced of what he said that it can't be... The question is not to consider the consequences which this second wave has produced, and to take measures about it. The problem is, as has been shown in different middle paths, the problem is that you don't share the pattern: that's the problem! And that the second wave has been used, to put upon the table this example, which every one wills. But please don't use it... I'd like to ask you not to use the darkness of the palace so that each one of us can put our pattern on the table. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Mrs Martínnez must not speak. Together Mme. González, representing the Podemos-IU team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u68	I wanted to thank Mrs Garrido for bringing the issue here today; because, well, it is true that it is a matter of concern, that is why it is recurrent. I think that the three times that you've come out in these plenarys is not because we've been thinking about it, it's not because they're pilgrim ideas, it's not because we want to be talking about the same things all the time. I imagine that happens to us all. But it is true that they are concerns that are in society, that are on the street, that are... which move us to the political groups, which we are here to give voice to many collectives, to many platforms, to many associations and to many people who feel we are referent and who we bring here what we believe we need to bring to a political debate. Having him out three times in a month in the middle means something. And I think he means something very important. We cannot forget that all the privatization and economicism of the last administrations has resulted in a model of business and profit with residences. And those criteria that only sought economic profitability have brought much social and now health insecurity. Well, to sum up, because neither I want to say anything to Mrs Sánchez nor to say anything to Mrs Ipiñazar, our group, my group, is here to reach agreements. We know that what underlies everything is that the model of care is the one we have to think about and rethink, and not, equally, plot; not come here saying what model of care regarding the issue of residences... It is that the fat man, the model of care that we proposed, the one we have to sit for, and that we do not have to sit alone ourselves, only the political groups, is that at that table, to sit and talk, we have to invite organised civil society, because even for the model of residences we have to listen. There are a lot of associations that are working and that are making very interesting proposals, that are demanding the Administration and demanding us as political representatives that we bring these issues here, that we talk about it. For a quick pass, there are Babestu, Gipuzkoako Senideak, Irauli Zaintza, family members of residents, the Pensioners' Movement... And so many associations are telling us: put on your batteries. Please, let us rethink together: the model of care is not just that of residences; although, in this case and at this point, we are talking about residences. It's a lot more. And this is a work of all. He said Paco Roca, one of the phrases he has in the... : "Stay a few more days here. You can't go around, drifting, without a dream." And my parliamentary group comes with the dream that we will end up talking about care. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u69	Thank you, Mrs. González. Now that the discussion is over, we'll put the original text of the Basque Team Populara-Ciudadans to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the assembly, 71; the votes given, 75; the supporters 7; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u70	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the assembly, 71; the votes given, 75; the 10th, 27; the contrary, 42; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u71	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Euscal Socialists and the Eunciators who have signed it. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u72	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "Provide the proposal as a parlamentary group, in order to secure access to every citizen's physical activity and sport. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u73	I'd like to start thanking you. I wish to thank all those who are brave in these complex and difficult times, those who are not afraid of making decisions, those who are not afraid to slip, and who are not watching what will happen to them? , go forward to those who take a step. And above all things health, education, community, and future are being put into the first line. That is to say, children's leisure, school sports, physical activity, active life, culture, all those who are putting together in the first line, because clubs, great nationality and social work with our young men, and because they've fought a lot of health workers, the orientation services have fought to stay in the sanatoriums, the old men to continue their life's active programs. Hello, ectics of health! Hurray you! If we don't want to mortgage the lives of our children and children who are now and future to be mortgaged, if we don't want to compromise a healthy society, we must put the active life, the physical activity, the sports, and culture of the organizations. Because unfortunately, we're looking at the biological health, not the global. And, consequently, children, young, elderly, chronics are abandoning us on the road, that is, we're abandoning people who are out of the production channel. Just when you have to encourage health most, you have destroyed your health. The health bonus is the best implant for COVID-19, because according to the health of each of us, and according to our collective health, we can answer COVID better. And it's not because we say that the World Medical Organization has a strategic plan to look at it. COVID-19 time, unfortunately, demigation And I'll give you specific examples of what's going on in the streets, in the villages, in order to see what's going on. And I'll start with a very visual example. Remember the pandemy before? How did you get a legal feeling? A new sports law proposal, bombarded So, where is this law that was theoretically a breaker? The philosophy of this law? I remember when that draft meeting was called win, win, win, win, win. Although soon we're a little scared to see, right now, today or tomorrow, the criteria that are made public in the bulletin and which measures will go, aren't they? We were surprised when we heard in the press conference that the contest was not believed would be banned. We don't know exactly what that means, because there's no contest in sport that isn't believed. Then we don't know if that'll ban or what it'll do. Let's hope it's not like that. It's a shame, it's a shame, it's fun and when I say the rest of the organizations and the rest of the organizations, I include all the organizations of all colours, even ours: we all think that we must do self-critic work because, unfortunately, we got into that wheel, don't we? The Ministry put a few axes in the first wave. First axis, first ones from ADO Plans and professional sportsmen, professional sport. It may be understood, in some measure, if everything else does not turn away. But it was the second axis: they are believed, and not believed, as if the virus had separated them, what persons they are, what persons they are, believed, and what they are not. And it was the third axis: public and private. You can't play the same sports in public and you can do it in private. What happened to that? The social race is getting stronger. Because we realize what we're moving in the schema of our present security, for safety of sport, only those who have money can do it. That's what we're fostering. And what happened? Well, it's happened that we've made the fourth-year-old three years old in a month. Or when they were a boy, they had to see what had happened with summer camps, so many councils had to shut down summer camps, but English Summer Scholl Summer Scholl Money! [He made a sign with his hand] Or some other examples: the young, in DBHn, have only believed the practice, so that being believed has become a privilege. And the organizations didn't notice the young people, the bootlollia. And I'll give you more examples because I think it's very important to make our... the orders, protocols, and the orders which the major institutions accept here. how they do it in the street, don't they? , to rethink our mental scheme, and, if possible, to change our criteria. You see, in the health wards, after a lot of work, after the work of a line between the organizations, the town, the social services, the sports services, and the ambulances in the sanatorium, put orientation services in the sanatorium. What's that? Well, you see, a woman who lives alone with a lot of health, who lives alone, by means of the global Osa, was succeeded in dedicating her to the orientation services, which included the Ttipi-Ttapa in a program or other program, so that woman, well, in the indicators on which health was conditioned, was affected and improved, which is scientifically proven. But when we needed all these programs, they stopped. And an example. We had 21 offices in the gym, only one has fallen. Not so bad in the gym. We had 11 offices left on our left, but only six offices left. And Araban, there's still a lot of work to do. And there's a lot of sanitary houses that have fought with the townhouses, those offices, the orientation office, and they're staying in the sanatorium. And, for instance, in Besain, Deba, and Eibar, three different colours have succeeded in doing this and are doing it, with difficulty, and with chronic illnesses, who live alone, with people of different ages. And that's important to face COVID because we have to look at health with a global view. But, Tolsano, the opposite of Toulouse... it happened. Look, there was a net in Tolsa, 80 years old, 80 years old, that went out for a walk in the week. And besides, the young men of three high school used to go with them, and these young men helped the slowest of the boys who were in the wheelchair. For years he had done a terrible job on the net, intergenerative, volunteering, nationalizing, and then he's left behind without thinking or offering any alternatives. It may not be possible to mix generations at the moment, but it may have been done differently, and it has been cancelled. And that has health impact. And that has impact on the COVID, not on the COVID. And that's an influence on not having our life worthy of value. In fact, the school in school was almost forbidden by fun, because education admitted a protocol that was forbidden out-of-school activities, but it corrected it. In the beginning, with those who have weakness, the Medical Department interfered, but directed it, and now it's managed to meet them, and it's doing a very decent job. And we can understand that the programmes that were pre-demia were impossible to maintain as they were, but alternatives can be examined in another way. It has to be rethinked. Unable to do anything, then the orientation services are released from the health wards and close the programs. I don't know whether COVID will kill our age or kill the most vulnerable citizens, but we'll get the criteria that are being established from the main organizations and the measures will die of other diseases than the COVID or COVID. And we need to rethink this because the impact we're creating is huge. It can't be all illegal; alternatives, alternatives, alternatives... It is the time of creation: creative, creative, creative. It's about the community, the network, doing things differently. Look, now we're in a violent crisis, because what's going to happen will be harder, because there's no money, so let's get things done differently. In one place, across the line, we could give different criteria, can we? And physical activity, as well as the genus view, must be crossed as the language view, because it contains a direct impact in the health, does it not? It's about time. Yeah, but that's how we'll do it. It can't be, it's not the time, not just in case, we won't. No. Yes, we must, and we must make decisions. And, above all, we have to invest in health. We have to focus on the indicators that influence health. And there's no need to invent anything, it's all theoretical. You have to change your eyes. We concentrate a lot, don't we? The sporting contest, the promotement of the sport. No. It must be our goal not to promote sport, but to promote sportsmen. We need to change our eyes, don't we? And, finally, I'd like to end up with an idea, because I want to think we've all learned something in these months. We've all made mistakes, we've done things right, we've made decisions, but we've learned something, haven't we? And the measures taken... What I mean is that we can't oppose the measures we take with the health parasites. Yeah? For health parameters, and measures taken, movables, and movements, are necessary; otherwise, we shall act negatively in our health. For example, if they came, the perimmerate or entire confiscation, let us not put them into a collision with the medical examinations, and put them in the first line with the persuasion and the practice of health. They're doing it in several countries in Europe, like Wales. The confinement has been put in, but the children are going to school. Then let's change the mentality, because otherwise we'll invade it negatively in health, and we're already suffering the consequences. Let us turn our eyes, let us rethink the scheme, to make a rethinkation, especially when we think of our most vulnerable citizens: children, young, elderly, chronic, out of production. Yeah? Do we dare here? Do we dare rethink the schematics? To complete the measures on the New Year's Plan? With other health parameters? You want me to ask you some new questions? Do we dare to search for new answers to this question? Can we make a little effort to do the planning to live in another way outside the consumption axis? For other socializing purposes? I'd like to think so. And I want to think, yes, because I think it's important, although the agreement we've made today is small, because we've put the school sports in the first row, and we've determined to adapt it to the pandemia evolution and find alternatives for the population to have access to active life and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u75	... etc., etc. And, well, thank you all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u76	Thank you. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Barrio is the representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadanos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u77	Thank you, President, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Well, I will try to be brief; I also add to the recognition that Mrs Ubera has made to so many people, at times like this one, to so many people linked to school sports, to so many monitors, to so many coaches, right?, who work in school sports and with the physical activity in general of... also of other collectives, right? We wanted to give importance to school sport because it is a basic element, it has to have a priority, and that is why we understand that the initiative is interesting, right?, the one presented by Mrs Ubera; well, in the end it has led to a compromise amendment, with which we basically agree, and to the extent that we can take a small step further in the demand and guarantees of the organisation of sport – of the school and in general – so it will be fine, right? It seems to us that school sport, which is the competence of the outside bodies, and what we value and, above all, what we have put on the table, is not that, but that the assistance, cooperation, cooperation, of the Basque Government with those institutions, with the outside bodies, which are the competent ones, or with others, with the municipalities, with all those who can do something for the strengthening of school sport, and for the development of school sport, that is, that the competences are where they are, but the important work, coordination and management, in certain matters of sport in general terms of the Basque Government, therefore, makes it necessary to help, of course, that impetus, that development, that strengthening of school sport. We have tabled an amendment to boost school sport and the whole of federal and non-federal sports activity, and we have concentrated, we have wanted to focus more, on children, on young people; that is important, isn't it? Of course, sports competitions are being played today by elite teams or by categories, so good, professional and other categories, right? That is, we see football, we see basketball, cycling and their respective impressive competitions, right?, and that impacts, impacts on children, young people, and also develops their ability and need to share an activity, which, first of all, they like, right?, but, above all, they like, that they form, that they socialize and that protects them, right? That's why sport is so important; you have to have it as a basic element, and school sport in an essential way, right? I think it is right, in this respect, that the compromise amendment, which contains – and I must also thank those who have written it – some of the issues that we have raised, which we raised on 28 September; it is clear that, lately, things seem to have worsened in the field of health; but, well, in any case, we have to put the priority and the emphasis on boosting school sport. Now it seems that there are some difficulties, but they must be overcome; that is the fundamental element: sport must be done and, essentially, school sport must be supported. School sport is fundamental in the training process of boys and girls, of young people. And it must be the subject of preferential care, and it must be the subject of integral care in the formative process, and, as we have said and as has been said, in the health process of course. The best preventive policy of diseases is physical exercise, it's sport, isn't it? Without going any further, the other day, a school sports coach I was talking to told me that boys and girls, or boys – he, above all, works with boys – had arrived in a way that he was a little worried about, because they had arrived very overweight, most of them, and some with a feeling of tiredness or a little... I mean, he saw them maybe less vital than in the process of meeting them being trained, being... And the competition, which is also basic and which is fundamental in those ages in relation to the... the competition they organize, right?, school sport. That is to say, I believe that, in the end, there are reasons to continue to think that hard work must be done and that those who are competent in school sport must be supported and, of course, must be supported. And the Basque Government has to do it. We had raised four points in our entire amendment: indeed, the statement by this Parliament, which has already done so in the compromise amendment, that school sport should be given preferential attention by outside and educational institutions. It is, we know. But it must be. And, in addition, we called for this collaboration of the Basque Government in the launch of the... because the Basque Government in sports, in education, in health has responsibilities, that is, logically, to do that, an important concert in relation to support for school sport. We were talking about collaborating with the outlaws in the recovery of the competitions. I say again, sports competitions are very important. And school sport, within its organization, much more important, very important, very important, I say again, by many references that young people and children have in... This competition strengthens capacities; it also strengthens that link to other social spheres, sports federations, clubs, right? That is, young people learn much more how to socialize and acquire relevant values. Both the training, both the physical activity of maintenance, and the competition develop them. And in that sense, we considered them important. And we also said that good, that we collaborate for the best conditions of sports practice or facilities. Today we know that there may be inappropriate sites or with structural or physical complications to preserve health as well. Well, it will also have to be done, and it will have to help the institutions or clubs or the facilities, the municipalities, to the extent possible, to improve and adapt the sports facilities. And we were also talking at last, and we have an initiative that we will be presenting in the near future, about the Basque Sports Council. The Basque Sports Council doesn't work. There are councils that depend on this government that don't meet, that don't work, that don't dictate... And decrees are extraordinary, by how they define functions, aren't they? The Basque Sports Council has a lot of functions, important all, proposal, information, advice, suggestions, annual memoirs... And he's not meeting! And there are essential moments when... They are also made up of very important people, people from federations, sports, parliaments, municipalities, government, clubs... It is necessary for bodies like this to come together and at the moment to analyse, together with the institutions, the needs we have, right? I believe that it is important that the Basque Sports Council be developed and launched, which, I say again, is a pity to see it, because it has met almost nothing and has had a very rampant activity and, come on, absolutely insufficient for the high purpose with which it was created. That it was not only a picture of constitution or inauguration, but it was much more. All you have to do is read the decree of your constitution. I say again: I agree with the amendment basically. I would have liked to fine-tune some more questions, especially on the issue of competition. I think it's very important and that we have to... The fact that it can be adopted as soon as possible must be a priority. In any case, well, if it is one more step, then we support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u78	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Monsieur Gustavo Angulo, representing the Podemos-IU team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u79	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Partners. The initiative we bring here today is part of the Department of Language Policy and Culture, but it could also be located in the Department of Health, because of the importance of sport in people's health. Sport today is much more than just physical activity; it's industry, it's fun, it's leisure. And it is also the key way in which we can improve our health, our way of living better and with fullness our lives. We are aware that COVID has changed everything and that reorganizing the return to school or to sports is a complicated task. We have to remember and value that, in these days of confinement, we have seen how sport has helped us to cope better and has helped us to keep our body active, with what is important to our health. And not in vain one of the first activities that were allowed to take place at the start of the descalation was, precisely, this: to go out for a walk and to exercise. From Elkarrekin Podemos, we think that physical education and school sport cannot fall into oblivion and, although the latter is not included in curricular subjects, must be supported with every guarantee. Talking about sport is not just about game and competition, it is also about an element of cultural and personal identification, which takes place inside and outside the sports field. If, out of overzealousness, we take girls and boys further away from physical education, what we will be doing will be advancing to a very early age the abandonment that in adolescence is made of sport, which is, on the other hand, very worrying. But, along with this facet of individual sport, collective sport, group sport, school sport or school games, all this was paralyzed by the state of alarm. And now, with the descalation, the sports fabric has been badly damaged. The number of registrations that are being formalised right now, with the start of school sport, is 40% lower than last year. And this involves not only social damage, but also occupational health damage... , health and work, forgiveness. It is important to bear in mind that maintaining and raising participation, especially in lower categories – Benjamin and Hazelnut – will help to maintain high rates in the following categories, and what is best, to do with good sports habits. To the group Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, it seems to us that this government should promote the necessary measures to ensure that sports practice – and, in particular, school sport – with the coronavirus is not seen in more difficulties than it already has. And all this with the aim of making the right to sport a reality, for this is what UNESCO says in its International Charter on Physical Education and Sport. The right to sport must be seen not only from the dimension of high-performance sport, but also from the promotion of all sports practices at all levels, from boys and girls who have contact with it in early childhood to all levels of education. It should also include women and men, older persons and various persons. This implies not only ensuring their access under the same conditions, but promoting sport for those in an unequal situation. Therefore, inclusive, adapted and secure opportunities must be offered to ensure participation in physical activity and sport for all, without exception. As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, sport is much more than just physical activity; it is a powerful tool for interpersonal relationships, to improve our health, and even a necessary tool to break down cultural barriers and promote effective equality between men and women in their relationship with sport. As in other areas of our lives, women have been able to enter with great force, in sport equality has not yet permeated society as a whole. There are many aspects in which this inequality is seen: federation presidents, sports judges or women on shareholders' boards are the least. There are many, today, who see with some criticism that girls and women participate in certain sports, either in their most leisure-related variant or in their sports competition variants. And this criticism, normally, is associated with the lack of femininity with which certain sports are attached. There are still many cultural barriers left to break, and we believe that it is not redundant to bring this issue back here, for sport is not just physical activity; it is also equality. Women's participation in elite sport is improving and we want and believe that such participation must also be replicated in basic sport, in school sport, in non-federal sport, promoting policies that include a gender perspective. Promoting and promoting women's access to and participation in sport must be a priority for this Government. Public policies to promote sport must be geared towards achieving full equality, visibility in management, in practice and in any sport activity. The role of sport in discrimination should not be underestimated. Invisibility of women in the media We are aware that the Basque Parliament already has... the Basque Government already has regulations, strategy, plans and areas of equality in the field of sport. What we ask ourselves is what has improved since 2004, because in the analyses of subsequent reports, 2013, 15 and 16, the same problems continue to be replicated: the existence of stereotypes and the abandonment by girls at the beginning of their youth age. With this, what we want is to give impetus to feminist policies in sport and we wonder what concrete solutions the Basque Government is managing to promote access to sport for young people, not so young, women and men. Thank you so much for everything.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u80	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists, Pastor Juan, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u81	Gracias, president. Well, it's up to us today to discuss physical activity and sport, isn't it? And we do mean that, from the Basque Socialists, we are very committed to the promotion of physical activity and sport. And it's not just words; it shows where we have the opportunity to manage this matter, as can be, in this case, Gipuzkoa's Foral Diputation. And we do so because we believe that they are two key elements in the development and well-being of citizens: for their contribution to physical and mental health and to improving the quality of life of the population. We are aware, of course, that sport is the channel – that is our idea – to move towards a more equitable, fairer and more cohesive society, especially when we talk about the little ones. It is a key element, allowing and improving their emotional and social development. For this reason, despite the current circumstances in relation to COVID, our group has promoted and has always been in favour of measures that will enable all citizens to have access to physical activity and sport. And it's important that shade of "all citizenship." And to paralyse physical activity entails, without a doubt and in this more situation, serious harm, especially for those elements of society that are most vulnerable, for the most vulnerable population in general, who are particularly affected by the lack of physical activity in a situation like the one we have at the moment. However, access to sport on the way back to what is called "new normality" and which, unfortunately, is more and more abnormal, this must be done under minimum standards, which try at least to ensure the safety of participants and, in the case of sports shows, of the public. This will necessarily require cooperation between clubs, municipalities, parliaments and, of course, the Basque Government. We cannot forget that, just a month ago, thousands and thousands of pupils from Children, Pre-schools and Primary Education took place in the Basque schools, assuming a factor to take into account in the development of security measures against the pandemic. To this end, it has been necessary to observe the results on the incidences related to COVID – we have already talked about this issue, at least twice, in this Parliament. After this analysis, we have been able to observe that, fortunately, the incidence has been minority in the case of resurgences in classrooms and the spread of the virus in schools. We Socialists do not say this, as the studies of epidemiologists say, after the introduction to the classrooms at the beginning of the school year. Following the analysis of the epidemiological conditions related to the return to school, the next step has been to allow the gradual and progressive development of school sports activities, with a priority objective: to ensure the health of the people involved, as I mentioned earlier, despite being aware that here, as in all orders of life at this time, the zero risk does not exist. Thus, the deputies of the three historical territories, Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Álava, with the support of the Basque Government, are already carrying out the appropriate activities, in coordination with the municipalities and sports entities, to enable the children of the three territories to resume such activities safely and effectively. In this way, as the media are echoing, the return of school sport is taking place this week gradually and allowing training in bubble groups, waiting to evaluate the possible return of competitions as soon as possible. To us, as I said before, the promotion of sport seems to us to be an essential element in any society, which brings benefits both in the health and development of citizens and in the cohesion and integration of citizens. And I say more: the promotion of sport to the whole population constitutes in any society a levelling element; if we do not establish a policy of extension of physical activity and sport to all social strata, especially to the most vulnerable, physical activity can end up becoming an activity for the rich, and that is not what we want. To this end, we would like to highlight the efforts made by the Members of Parliament, in collaboration with the Government, to be able to carry out the Mugiment programme, to which Mrs Ubera referred. In this regard, the institutions have been working with the municipalities and other organizations to promote new sports habits among citizens. This programme is made up of 86 entities and, as I have mentioned, it aims to promote sport in the fight against sedentary lifestyle, more important than ever in a period when there have been confinements and it is possible that there may be them again. The project has facilitated physical activity to sectors of society whose habits needed to be changed. Overweight people, older citizens with cardiovascular diseases, through municipal programs in which also participate medical centers and advisors in charge of identifying patients and performing sports routines. Of course, not everything is perfect, not everything is developing to full satisfaction, but protocols and the widespread expansion of sport are improving. Not everything is a follow-up to what is done in Madrid; it is a question of improving service and, above all, of doing so in a coordinated manner. Finally, we believe it is important to mention the Health Council's order published on 19 August 2020, laying the groundwork for the return of sports activities following the first wave of the pandemic. As someone who has spoken before me said, physical education and health have much to do with it, especially at this time. This standard establishes the minimum health criteria for carrying out physical activity and sports shows, which can be adapted by means of protocols of action by sports entities and municipalities in order to try to avoid and minimize the risk of new outbreaks. I believe that on this occasion, and although it was at the last minute, we have managed to make an amendment that has covered practically the whole of the House, after listening to Mr Barrio, too, and that seeks to gather all those aspirations and criteria that each one had: that is to say, that it should be considered a preferential activity by all the institutions, parliaments and municipalities; urges the Basque Government to adapt it, logically, to the evolution of the pandemic and propose alternatives to the priority groups; also urges it to report on the action of the Directorate for Physical Activity and Sport and to take it also to that famous Basque Sports Council, which, as Mr Barrio announced, will have an opportunity to discuss it at a later date; and urges the Basque Government to continue to deepen the promotion and incorporation of the gender perspective into physical and sports activity. In any case, I think we can congratulate ourselves because it is a good agreement, a first step in what, I think, should be the norm in a pandemic situation such as we have: always try to reach the maximum possible agreement on matters of the core for society, in the most transversal way, making the necessary effort of generosity and intelligence, as I think we have all been able to do, in order to give light to this document, that we will then proceed to its vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u82	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mrs. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon. At the present day sedimentism is a great threat to our society, and it is the fourth factor of mortality throughout the world. The only way to face this situation is to perform more physical and more sporting activities. We call physical activity any voluntary movement of the body that consumes energy. It seems simple, but only 30% of the Basque adults do this in order to ensure a fairly healthy physical activity. Physical activity and sport are the basis of our life quality and health. So they are essential in the welfare of our individual or the well-being to achieve high cottas. During the health crisis of COVID-19, and especially during the phase of confiscation and the phase of traffic and motion, the entire population of Basque population has still more fully acquired the importance of physical exercise and the advantages which physical exercise affects physical health and mental health. Our team believes that an active society is indispensable to maintain a degree of well-being. This will bring a happier society, more productive and more healthy. At the same time, our health system will increase its patientability. Sports is not a restricted physical activity, nor a sporting exercise limited to contests. In fact, sport includes many important areas of society, and it is a purely indirect social value. Physical activity and sport are essential to the education and education of youth. The promotion and promotion of sport have been, are and will continue to be on the agenda of the institutions. The government programme reflects this in its commitment 121. It says: "To promote the practice of physical activity and healthy lifestyles among Basque citizens and to place Basques among the most active societies in Europe", with two well-differentiated initiatives: on the one hand, to extend the unique sports card model to all Basques, to promote the sports practice of all Basques and Basques through the use of public sports facilities, and, on the other hand, to enhance the programmes that encourage sports practice such as Mugiment, which has been mentioned here, and which, in fact, is a strategic project that aims to create a more active society and is based on interinstitutional work, and that, according to you, Mrs Ubera, does not work well, although I would like to know for you what really works well. And the truth is that so badly it will not work, when it has received the NAOS Strategy Award for the promotion of the practice of physical activity in the family and community sphere of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. Another of the commitments, 122, seeks to exploit the potential of physical activity and sport as an element of equality, integration and promotion of euskera. At this point, we are all aware that coronavirus affects every area of our life and society, and sports practice, physical activity and sport have also not been able to avoid being dragged away by the pandemic. The virus is still there and living with it is not an easy task, but among all of us we have to ensure that the activities carried out by Basque citizens are carried out in a safe environment. Fortunately, this Government has worked in that direction since the first minute and has taken steps to provide maximum security guarantees. Already in full confinement, an e-mail address was enabled, from the department, to respond to all doubts or needs that citizens had about returning to physical activity. Five technicians answer all questions exclusively within 24 hours. In August, the Basque Government, the three outlaws and federations closed the general rules of action before COVID-19 for the current school sports course. And not only that, in June, the department published general public health recommendations for the development of specific sectoral plans aimed at minimizing and controlling the transmission of COVID; considerations for the possible holding of sports competitions in a state of health surveillance by COVID; the guide for the initiation of trainings, the protocol for the operation of clubs and preventive measures; the guide for recommendations for a new normality in the field of physical activity and sport, including a guide with advice for the use of the mask in sports practice. And, in addition to all these standards and recommendations, the department has developed 40 specific standards for 40 sports modalities, all in perfect collaboration and coordination with the actors involved. In all of them, it is also specified that they must be adapted to the health situation at every moment, since the situation of the pandemic is changing, and this obviously obliges us to always act with the utmost prudence. Thanks to the work carried out by the government of the lehendakari Urkullu, the Basque sport was the first to return to professional training; it did so with the ball, the oar and the herri-kirolak All this shows that the Basque Department and Government work, constantly and in coordination with the rest of the institutions and agents, to ensure full safety in sports practice. From our group, we understand the uncertainty of the families and the doubts about when the return to school sport will be resumed, and even when we will return to life as we knew it, but the current epidemiological situation does not allow these activities to develop normally, especially the competitions, Mr Barrio. And, in that sense, the institutions have always worked with the intention that there should be school sport so as not to leave anyone behind, Mrs Ubera, to ensure an alternative to families without means or resources, through access to that extra-school. Being aware of the unstable situation of the pandemic, they have always tried to offer these guarantees to families and students. And, in fact, the deputies have extended the registration period for boys and girls in school sports until December, including by maintaining training to ensure that they have access to physical activity. But, obviously, they will have to be adapted to the situation of the pandemic at every moment. And see if the institutions are working from the first moment to return to the school sport that, today, more than 11,000 school sports agents and leaders have conducted online training Well, I think that all groups agree on the importance of physical activity and sport to maintain a healthy life and those values that they have for society, and, therefore, we have reached a compromise agreement, in which, well, I will not extend much, since Mr. Pastor has already done so, but we did consider it interesting to reach an agreement among all... Well, it hasn't been possible in the end, but we'll have Mr. Barrio's support, which he thought was interesting, but he didn't want to participate in the negotiation. I encourage you to do so in the next one; I am sure that in the Basque council you have a little more interest in reaching agreements, since it is yours. Basque Sports Council. We believe that the rushes are not good and that the best ally of this pandemic is prudence, because it takes us..., even if it takes longer to get back to normal, it must be done with certainty. And what more we and we and this Government would like than not to be in this crisis; but unfortunately, the criteria and the adoption of measures are conditioned by the pandemic. And no one can offer certainty at this time, but the Basque Government does offer measures of responsibility and common sense to protect citizens and prevent the spread of the virus, while we try to live a life in accordance with the new normality, or at least as much as possible resemble the old normality. And we believe that it is a good agreement, because we and we, in the Basque Nationalist Party and in the Socialist Party, considered it realistic that the measure should, above all and above all, take into account the epidemiological situation of every moment. And that is what we have tried to reflect in that agreement. And, well, I am also grateful that we have reached this agreement. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. We'll take the answers turn. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u85	Ms. Molina, instead of devoting so much to putting on our medals, we should – everyone, uh – question ourselves more, ask ourselves what we are doing well and how we can improve, right?, because I think we all have a lot to improve, a lot. And I think we should question ourselves more about what we're doing. For I don't know whether the old life will come back or not, but what we have to do is live with a virus, the future which probably follows will change, and what we have to do is put health in the first row. Yeah? And I don't know what's been done or what's done, but I know it's been done by a lot of operators and I know that the five technicals are overdone, the sports structure, the sports managers, can't deal with their work, months, 24 hours, months without answering, protocols have been done by clubs, they've done it, they've done it, they've done it, they've made it, they've done it, they've done it, they've done it, they've done it, they've done it, they've done it, I know, they've done it've done it, they've done it, they've done it've been done it, I know, they're done it've done it, and it've been done it, I know, and it've done it've done it've been done it, and it've been done it've been done it, I know, they've done it've been done it, and it've been done it, I know, I know, and it've been done it've been done it've been done it all over by the same. And I want to thank those who are demilitating, especially those who are doing it, those who are doing it, those who are doing it, the whole work they're doing, and I'm just wondering if we're able to work together so that we can improve the situation they're in, so that we can't? It's really good to be committed, it's very good in the documents, in the government documents, to take precautions, as it does with Movement, but here we need praxia. And I've given you examples of what's going on in the diary. These are very exact examples, and those of the townhouses in different colours, what is happening. And that's what we have to change. Because now, it's time for alternatives, it's time for things to be different, of creation, of community, of network. It's about time, not the time of prohibition. And for us, Mr. Barrius, competition is a secondary competition for us; it is important for us either that it should be an end to produce the signs that produce health in each citizen and in a collective body; for the more we produce in our health, the better we will face the pandemia. Because see what happened in the last few months. I don't know if we're dealing with COVID, but health is doing a lot of damage. Mental health, physical health, because this isn't just biological health, and we're forgetting global health. I can give you a lot of examples, and I think you know them too. So let's go for the parameters and take a turn to the skeletons. And to Mr. Pastor, I would also be grateful to those parameters established in the first wave by Madrid, that is to say, the first professionals and the ADO planable may be, but the others will not forget it, and we will go and take a turn on it. Let's turn around and change the faith and not the faith, let's go for a spin to the public and private, because we're increasing the rift. And we have to force all the citizens, no matter how old they are, but especially those who are the most vulnerable, even in front of the virus, to place them in the centre, to put the means of active life on them. Because when we talk about the measures to deal with the COVID, I have a feeling we forget our health measures, okay? Of course, we must adopt other habits, which must be reduced to a certain degree of motion, but which does not mean that we must diminish the active life, which we must reduce to the measures of health, which we must reduce to physical activity, which is quite contrary. We need to make that stronger. And for that, we have to find other alternatives to make this situation different. But to do it, not to forbid it. For the first thing that was done was: the children at home, the most vulnerable at home, the last to come out... Let's take a walk. And now, if we plan periptherate, or whatever it may be, let us give other tools to the weaker, as they have done in other countries. And I said, the children of Wales will go to school in the confessional. Or Denmark. Look at Denmark's philosophy. And that doesn't mean... but the health of the people will be better. And that will help you too. And then the consequences won't be so bad, because we have to handle side damages and consequences too, right? And I hope you're reasonable. Let's make a little sense; let's go back and think, stop, think... We need him. And let's go, to take the New Life Plan, to put the weakest citizens in the centre, to promote health and to indicate the effects of health and health. And today we brought in one of those indicators, and it's the active life, the physical activity, the sport...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u87	This town needs a lifetime. A little bit of life...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u88	Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos, Mr. Barri, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u89	Thank you very much. With your permission, very briefly, from the seat. For us, in this initiative and in the situation we are experiencing, the expectation of sports competition is very important. That is to say, the expectation of the competition is basic, and it is also a priority, and we have to work for it, we have to work helping the sports structures that move in the school sport, without going further in relation to that issue. In other words, society has moved very and very quickly, in relation to sport competition, at the elite level, at the professional level. Man, we're looking at it; I've remembered it before, right? That is, in the athlete's mind, and in the young athlete's mind much more, there is competition; that is, I have spoken it before, with a formative value, with a socialist, educational value, that is, it is important; limitations have been overcome in relation to another type of competition. On the level, then, more amateur or school... competition also remains important. That's why we missed in the transaction not talking about..., talking about taking the steps, talking about continuing to make the effort to regain the competition; we understand it basic. But in any case, then, we will vote in favour, because a small step is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u90	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Is Angulo from Podemus going to have a word together? Yes, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u91	Can you hear me? Okay. Just to thank EH Bildu and Rebeka for the work they have done and to get this agreement, in which we are all included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u92	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Pastorek... he must not speak. And, Miss Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u93	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Look, Mrs Ubera, the restrictions are taken out of necessity, not out of taste, eh, and they do not go against collectives, neither against families nor against citizenship; they go in favour of citizenship, precisely. And here, when it comes to taking such measures, I don't know, we would have to ask, for example, his spokesman Iriarte, that this morning he went to the lehendakari Urkullu to move him that there are more "constant" measures [Keinu bat egin du eskuekin] I have come to the conclusion that what bothers you is that we have an active government, a government that ensures the health and safety of everyone, because it says "less medals." Less medals? Well, I'd tell you less drama and more truth. Because you represent political sedentaryness. You remind me of that person who is from his house, on the couch, comfortably, with his fries, watching a football game or whatever, yes, and criticizing those who are really making the callus there; but you from the comfortable, very comfortable posture, in fact... So, when you want to cooperate, then, here we are. Because anyone would say, moreover, that we have not reached an agreement, given how the debate is going... And then, also, of course, you want to go back to school now, and as if nothing happened... But didn't you say schools weren't safe places? And now they're in a hurry because sport does develop there. I mean, eaters, not classes, but sports does? Very well, then, follow your attitude of incoherence. And then, yes, I would like to highlight it too, so that when you speak with that lightness of the roller, well, then, you remember a little bit, a little bit... It is already true for its part of the roller, because, except today, that we have reached an agreement, it has not mentioned it, that is, to see if it remembers this agreement, it is worth redundancy, when it intends to mention the roller.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. The discussion is over and we will vote EH, Together-Podemos-IU, Eukal Socialists, and Eubertarians, the half-correction we have signed. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 73; the opposites 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u95	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Number of points in theme list: "Populary Group of Euscal-Ciudadnos as a parlamentary group-about the Reformation of DSBE and Professional Enplegu Service. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs Garrido, who is the representative of the Basque Popularo-Ciudadans, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u96	ma'am: Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician. Looks like no one from the government will be left in this important matter. The Poppular party brings an interesting subject to the whole meeting, to debate, and again we have discussed the protection system and the profession. Seeing this government has done nothing on this subject, and has sought no remedy for it in the last six years. She said that... – I am sorry there is no one from the government; they will be in other matters – but she said – who is also the same advisor as the last legislature, Mrs Artolazabal – in her appearance at the beginning of the legislature, as she said, of the last legislature, in presenting the strategic lines of her department, that the main challenges of the Department of Employment and Social Policy were, on the one hand, the reform of Lanbide and the reform of the social protection system, and, in particular, the amendment of the Law for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion. After four years of the previous legislature, with Mrs Artolazabal as adviser and Mr Urkullu as lehendakari, the commitments made in this area have not been fulfilled. That is to say, in this particular area, with regard to the Lanbide reform and the reform of the protection system, it must be clearly stated that the balance sheet is negative. Again, the Popular Party deals with the subjects which concern the people. He was also in the preceding law, and so we did and we've done it again or we're doing it again. We can clearly say that this Government is characterized by failing to fulfil its own commitments, the commitments it acquires with the whole of Basque citizenship, and that shortcomings persist. They persist because, of course, the measures have not been taken and those initiatives that were necessary to alleviate and remedy the deficits in these areas have not been promoted. In these matters, this Member – who, well, on these issues I have put forward quite a few initiatives, as you all know, especially some Members who have had to listen to me in this rostrum several times for these issues – has also made several appeals to the Counsellor, in relation to the reasons that were leading to delays in such important, essential reforms that she herself considered to be priorities at the beginning of the parliamentary term, and the reasons that also led this Government to fail to meet the commitments made in relation to these issues that we are bringing to this House today. We clearly say that this Government has failed to fulfil its commitments in both areas, in relation to the referral of a draft law on the reform of the GIR, the Law on Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion. The second quarter of 2018 was scheduled to be referred to this bill. A bill, i.e. a legal text in the form of a bill, a legislative amendment, in this case of an existing law, of a law in force, through a bill that had to be referred, or passed, rather, in the Governing Council and subsequently referred to this House, before the second quarter of 2018. As the Government did not do its duty, as we all know, just when this deadline was over, we are surprised by the groups supporting the Government, developing their own initiative, a bill to amend this law. We denounce the forms at that time; we believe that a legislative amendment of this magnitude had to be a draft law, which is accompanied by proper mandatory reports. We also thought that, obviously, it had to have given time, since we were talking about 2018, so that this government, when the council had already disengaged in March 2017 the general lines that were then taken up in this bill... would have given plenty of time to draft that bill. If we take into account the deadline that Mr Erkoreka has always told us, he stressed yesterday, that the drafting of a bill is a year; that is, the bill had to have arrived in time and in form. And it was not so, and therefore the debate was postponed, it is true, and we, in the end, with the aim of opening the debate, made it possible to proceed with the proposed law presented by the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party in this House, and abstained, as I was saying. With regard to the Lanbide reform, we also have to say that the many shortcomings are also there; we... and our aim is to become a real employment service for Basque citizens, which serves to meet the objective of employability. We believe that the protection system must have an entrance door and an exit door. It is true that the current circumstances are very complicated, and the system of protection will have to be strengthened. And, obviously, that is a challenge, Counsellor, which you too point out in your appearance; but at the same time, we have to set up a system that is fair, sustainable and, above all, in which you help them, in a scenario as complicated as the one we have, reach out to the people who really need it. But returning to Lanbide, Lanbide has to review its functions, take steps to meet its mandated objectives and, above all, in three specific functions, such as guidance, training and mediation, where it is failing loudly. In the orientation and in the training, designing absolutely individualized training itineraries, but following these itineraries: it cannot be that a person who goes to Lanbide was interviewed, made a plan in that way and did not follow those plans, which, in our opinion, are not now at all personalized and adapted to the circumstances of employability of each person who goes to Lanbide. Intermediation. Here too, there has been a failure in this matter, in relation to intermediation and to ensure that Lanbide is a reference service for Basque citizens. The vice-counsel already told us the last legislature that his children... that his son was told that if he has to look for a job, the last thing that comes up is to go to Lanbide's pages; that can't be the case: Lanbide has to become a reference service, not only for citizens, but for Basque companies. Well, in short, the same initiative that I have brought... that this group brought the past legislature the People's Party, but that this legislature the People's and Citizens' Party bring back to this House, for its debate, in which we urge the Basque Government to amend the existing rules regarding social aid, with the presentation of... approval and referral to the House of the bill amending the Law on Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion, and also, well, correct the shortcomings that occur in the social protection system. And a plan, already a rigorous, serious plan, that also corrects the failures that Lanbide has had and that has Lanbide in fact, and contemplates the necessary modifications in a plan of reform of Lanbide, with concrete actions for the Basque Employment Service. With regard to the amendments tabled, well, the representative of the Mixto-Vox Group proposes that a detailed report be presented within three months on the shortcomings observed in the processing of GIR, with particular emphasis on those which have enabled the fraudulent use of economic aid. It seems good to us that this issue should be examined; it does not seem good to us now, because you bring it, obviously. This has been claimed by the People's Party, over all these years, at least the years that this Member of Parliament has been in this House, which is already 14 years, but it is true that we believe that this issue is already being detected; that is, what is needed is to arbitrate solutions, we already know where fraud situations are or are occurring, where irregular situations occur. We are not, of course, going to reject your amendment, but I do think it would be appropriate to give you this assessment, which is the time for solutions, because the diagnosis is already more than done, after so many years of progress on a law, since 2008, with an amendment in 2011, as you well know. And in relation to Elkarrekin's amendment of totality We can, therefore, in some things we can coincide, but in others I believe that the approach is different; we do, of course, bet on having a service... a system of social assistance which contemplates and serves to protect people in vulnerable situations, but we believe that this system also has shortcomings and that, at the moment, there are also issues that need to be resolved, so that the people who have to be in the system and that there are no abuses and abusive situations, that we also understand that, today, they are happening and that they need to be corrected and that measures must be taken to that end, so that, precisely, the people who really need it are in the system, within it... And with regard to the amendment of the whole of the Basque Nationalist Party, well, it is a bit of the usual thing, to continue with what is being done, and to take a critical position, because obviously it does not seem very reasonable that we should go directly to support its amendment as a whole. Indeed, as we are at the beginning of the legislature, and I hope that this time the Government will consider these priority issues on its political agenda and forward a bill, because obviously we will have the opportunity to speak. I think it would be good if they did not stick to their numbers and the arithmetics that add up between the Members of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, and that in this idea of widening agreements, therefore, when initiatives are adopted or referred to the House or concrete plans are presented in relation to these issues, because, well, you can have the opportunity to contact the groups, so that we can also make contributions and enrich those texts or also make the amendments that we consider appropriate, in relation to the proposals that you bring us to this House. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u97	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mistto, Mrs Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u98	Good morning, everyone. First of all, I must say that a political group that is part of this government pointed out last Thursday that Vox brought to this plenary an issue that has been discussed repeatedly in this Parliament and therefore did not participate in the debate. I hope that you will remember this, as it has only been a week, and that you will have the decency to be consistent and to follow the line, not intervening in one of the most discussed issues in this Parliament, the GIR. We will tell you that they are more than €370,000 and more than 50,000 holders of these aids. The Government, through Lanbide, has been able to place this money on many occasions in the hands of humble people who really needed it; but, on other occasions, it has been left in the hands of people who did not require it. A reasonable government would have as its main concern to develop lines of action that would transfer citizens who receive such aid to the labour market. And in this field, I think it has failed. Combating poverty is a priority goal for Vox. We believe that the most just way to do this is not to condemn the citizen to live on public income, but to guarantee and encourage the exercise of the right and duty to work. The best social policy is that which promotes employment and gives entrepreneurs freedom to undertake. In exceptional situations of economic depression, such as the current one, Vox is not against the fact that the most needy Basques receive income and subsistence aid, in order to meet the most basic needs. But this measure must meet a number of conditions: it must be of a temporary and extraordinary nature, linked to the search for a job with a decent wage, which is the way in which, really, one can get out of the situation of necessity, without depending on the State perpetually. It is not feasible a help perpetuated in time, which accommodates the person to this situation. As one saying says: "Give a fish to a man and he will eat one day; give him a cane, teach him to fish, and he will eat the rest of his life." Equality between Spaniards must also be ensured by unifying the criteria for access throughout the national territory. In no case should it imply a "call effect" for illegal immigration, which may benefit from aid, by way of exceptions or legal loopholes. There must be financial viability. An income of these characteristics must be combined with an aggressive reduction in political spending that is ineffective, so that it can be implemented without firing the debt that we all pay. That is why we are asking, in our amendment, that, within a reasonable time, the report commented on by spokesman Laura Garrido be drawn up, detailing all the shortcomings observed in the processing of GIRs, with particular emphasis on those which have involved fraudulent use of this economic aid. We believe that Lanbide can use all digital and control advances and modernise its operation, not only as a tool for the distribution of social aid, and that it can use these resources in a thorough check of who these aids are intended for, to avoid fraud and also to work actively to encourage, in the shortest possible time, the incorporation of collectors into the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u99	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u100	Thank you, ma'am. Fraud-related deficiencies are already detected, and they represent less than 1%, in relation to income guarantee income, Mrs Martínez. But this has served you to resume that speech which, perhaps today, has not been on the table, in a thick way, in Mrs Garrido's intervention, but which was the speech that the People's Party had been transmitting for many years, since 2014, in relation to income guarantee income, to criminalize the persons receiving and potential recipients of an income such as this and the persons to whom the legislation on insertion should be directed, to income guarantee income legislation, etc. And we regret it. We are not going to approve the initiative that you bring today, Mrs Garrido, fundamentally, because it seems to us that you are coming to demand that it be put on the table, therefore, an initiative, a proposal, which you have described, which finally came in the form of a bill by the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups, which we have already explained here... my colleague Tinixara, moreover, in a way, I believe, very well argued, with much knowledge of cause, an initiative that we did not share because we think that, in the terms in which it is raised at the moment, it is a step back and not a step forward. I am not going to make the tour – you have already done it, Mrs. Garrido –... The journey we have in this Parliament, with what is on the table right now. And I am glad that you have not reached an agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. I do not know if that will be a sign of anything; I hope, I hope, of changes. The other day we listened to Mrs Mendia on the committee. We expect changes. Mrs. Garrido, we, with your initiative, which is very generic, with the second point, the subject of Lanbide... It is so generic that we could even agree, because the changes that have to be made in Lanbide, for we have also been saying, for a long time, that they are necessary, because Lanbide has been working badly from the beginning, and that, moreover, as a result of assuming the management of income guarantee income, that has entailed a workload and problems in Lanbide that we all know. But what you bring, basically, is that a proposal be put back on the table, which, in the terms in which it is right now, we and we do not share because we have already said it here. We think it's a proposal that abandons women. We think it is a proposal that is invented an indicator, that tells us that the basic expenses of a person in Euskadi can be covered with 455 euros, to which are added a series of complements, that translates into that, in the end, no one will know how much the receiving people can charge, complements that can be discounted in addition, and we are not explained, exactly, why and how they can be discounted... A system that proposes a change in the perception of income for young people and that might seem to lower the minimum age that we have been claiming – and not us, most of the agents – to fall to 18 years, but which in fact does not reduce it, because it puts a requirement of contribution to the previous Social Security, which is very difficult to meet at certain ages. A proposal with which, at present, as it stands, only one GIR per house can be charged. We have already said, here too, that we must remember and remember what happened in 2011, when it was limited to two per house, which lost income guarantee income thousands of people; that the itineraries of people on the street went from an average of two years to four years. And we think that, as the proposal is right now, it is not a valid proposal, because it is a step backwards. And, therefore, we are not going to support what you propose here today. Nor can we support the amendment tabled by Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists – especially for its third point – because we believe that it continues to insist on that idea or on that proposal which was on the table at the end of the previous parliamentary term and which we do not share. We don't share, honestly, and we think, we keep thinking, it's a step back. And we are concerned – and today we have seen it in the interventions: softly, in Mrs Garrido's intervention, and more powerfully, in that of Vox's spokesperson –... We are concerned about the influence that this obsession with control, with fraud... for this type of aid, it may have in the future reform that this Parliament is going to carry out on such a sensitive issue. We are concerned about criminalizing the most vulnerable, focusing on controlling aid to the most vulnerable. We would already like to see the focus on high-level fraud – and I think that is why Mrs Garrido's party, which brings us the proposal today, knows something, and I do not want to embarrass this debate. But the proposal, as it is right now, is certainly a step back in that direction. A proposal that, we have already said here, of 107 articles that have, in addition, 70 are references to regulatory development. A proposal that devotes 25 articles to be explained, and in which there are at least 26 references to regulations. A law, therefore, that in the terms in which it would be raised right now, allows the Government to put new requirements, causes of extinction, amounts, criteria of sanction... And we don't agree with this. We think it's a blank check so it's done and undone. Therefore, we are not going to support your initiative, Mrs Garrido, and we have proposed – yes, we have registered – an amendment to the whole, where, in some way, we put some of the fundamental issues, which we have not only defended, but have heard many of the actors who have something to say about this issue and who have also gone through the Basque Parliament, precisely, to say some of these things. We think it is necessary, and so we will ask the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi and, in a specific way, the Vice-Lehendakari and Counsellor of Employment and Labour. We're going to ask you for a change in what's on the table right now in relation to income guarantee income and also in relation to Lanbide. But, today, I wanted to focus on the issue of income guarantee, because it seems to me that, coming from the initiative of the People's Group, with the matriculation that they gave us for years on what was really what they were worried about on this issue... For it seems to us important that you do not let yourselves be influenced by what, really, they are obsessed with, and, now, with them, Vox. And we have heard it perfectly in the speech of Vox's spokesman. That's not the way. What is now on the table is a step backwards; we again define it in this way, and we will therefore defend our amendment: we will reject what the People's Party has presented in this House today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u101	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u102	Thank you very much, President. Today we are going to discuss the reform of income guarantee income and Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service. We have discussed a lot in the previous legislature about the need to improve the income guarantee system, although we have a good system, which has enabled us to alleviate the difficulties better than in other autonomous communities. But that doesn't stop us from getting better. Just as we have also discussed the need to carry out a reform in Lanbide; but, at the moment, it is even more necessary, after suffering the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. On 14 October, the Vice-Lehendakari and the Employment and Labour Adviser appeared in the Committee on Labour and Employment, Mrs Idoia Mendia, and in the Committee we were told by the Vice-Lehendakari that maximum effectiveness must be achieved in the recovery of employment and that no one should be left behind. And it is up to this department to lead and complete two major challenges with transformative determination: to achieve the public system of personalized and effective employment, which connects the needs of companies with the training needs of workers, and to strengthen the social protection network, even if it is the best system that exists today in Spain, so that no one who needs it will be left without a resource. But above all, so that there are fewer and fewer people who need it, because they can be given a chance for employment. And it showed, in an extensive way, that the Department of Labour and Employment is key to addressing the reform of the law on income guarantee and social inclusion, and to the adoption of a new law of the Basque Employment System. Mrs Garrido, for your initial presentation, it seems that you have not yet learned that the income guarantee income reform has changed department, and now it will fall to the Department of Labour and Employment. The Basque Socialists consider that, after what was said in that appearance, the initiative of the People's-Citizens' Group did not make much sense, because there is no need for that initiative presented by the People's Group, because that commitment is already taken up and undertaken by the Socialist Group and by the Nationalist Group within, first of all, the government agreement. Secondly, however, Mrs Mendia, as I said on 14 October, has also shown before us in the Committee on Labour and Employment, on the part of Vice-President Lehendakari. That is why what I am going to go in now to explain are those commitments which Mrs Mendia has made in that committee and which are very extensive. And that is what has led us not to consider it necessary to reach an agreement or a compromise amendment within this point today. And, by the way, Mrs Garrido, I told you at the fourth point, but at the sixth point you have done the same thing again: you have not raised a phone to talk to anyone at all, to try to reach an agreement, when this initiative is also yours. And something should have put you, some effort could have been made to try to reach an agreement, and you haven't done it at all. But, come on, neither did we consider it necessary, because the compromise is already taken on, it is already taken on, and it was said clearly, as I said, the vice-lehendakari the other day. In the area of strengthening social protection, he stated that the Department of Labour and Employment was carrying out a review of both the proposed income guarantee and social inclusion law presented by the Nationalist and Socialist Groups, with all the contributions made by experts and associations, in addition on two occasions, in two different blocks of appearances. And to this proposal for a law, we must add now, in addition, everything concerning the vital minimum income recently approved by the Government of Spain, which should be included in the new draft text to be adopted, which will be treated as a draft law. He also stated that income-guarantee income management, at present, seriously undermines Lanbide's ability to act, which must be the activation tool for employment, but that it must, however, cater for people who are not going to reactivate themselves on a job, such as pensioners. This reality was already foreseen in the proposed law presented by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group in the last legislature, separating the income of pensioners from the other income guarantee income, precisely for that purpose. But the vice-lehendakari took a step further, pointing out that the department wants a strengthening of income guarantee income, rather than a mere reform, but insisted that it would be a reinforcement. Because we start from a model of success, which remains the reference model of the rest of Spain and which, in addition, has been a model used in Navarre and Catalonia also to address this reform. And also the vice-lehendakari indicated that the starting point cannot be the analysis of the deficiencies, but of the model of protection we have, and to refine it to improve. The law in force was passed 12 years ago, in 2008. And then a crisis erupted, which revealed, in full deployment of the subjective right to minimum income, several issues to improve. The 2011 reform was carried out, when income guarantee income management moved to Lanbide. And the reform of income guarantee income began, in the last legislature, to improve it, never to make it worse. During that crisis, we could see that not only did many people lose their jobs to it, but that the number of active workers who had to go to it, the so-called poor workers, who accounted for 18% of income-guarantee income earners, was greatly increased, precisely as a result of the existing precarious labour situation. And he said, the vice-lehendakari, the need to break that loop, because this new law must guarantee the double right, that of income and labor insertion. In the latter case, the proposal for a law already pointed to employment promotion routes; it included this responsibility in the public administrations themselves, through social clauses in public procurement. And, in short, the Department of Labour and Employment pointed out that it wants the protection network to be a real driver of social and labour inclusion: social because it continues to guarantee such sufficient income, and labour because it is effective when they can find a decent job these workers or those people who are receiving income guarantee income. And that process, the vice-lehendakari complemented it with a need to transform the Basque Employment System and the need to design a new model of comprehensive governance for employment, and this is also a commitment reflected in the government agreement between Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists. And this model on which to reflect indicated that it will be that of the three mistakes: reorientation, recasting and relocation; in the end, the compromise was very broad, and that is why, as I have indicated, we did not think it was necessary to reach an attempt at a compromise, because it is already a firm commitment on the part of this Government. And, on the other hand, we were also fleeing – and I agree with Mr Hernández on this – from approaches from other groups, such as that made by Mrs Martínez de Vox, who has only focused on controlling income-guarantee fraud, in her amendment to the whole, following also the speech that in the previous two legislatures she has had, here in this House, the People's Group then and now People-Citizens, when in the end, exclusively, we are talking about less than one percent in fraud. You managed to get the whole House to agree on a xenophobic speech that was being defended by the People's Party in the tenth legislature, precisely because of that, and that is one of the reasons why you also prevented the reform of income guarantee income in that tenth legislature from being undertaken, precisely because of the speech you were holding at that time. I will continue to give more explanations in my second shift, because I have run out of time. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u103	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u104	Thank you, ladies of the table, chief of the department, members of the legislature, good noon to all. We discussed this last discussion, Mrs Garrido, in fact, brought us points of the previous discussion, 4th and 5th. Now we bring the first and second points. Mrs Garrido, I quote: in short, the same initiative. You know that there are usually two classic comments in this House, the deja vu It said last Wednesday the Sailburu Sailburu Let's see. My first memory of the last legislature, I have it clear, eh?, the plenary of January 26, 2017. First, people, in that interview, right?, people in that interview. I met Nerea Kortajarena, Eneko Andueza and Tinixara Guanche – a greeting for Tinixara–; I already knew Laura Garrido and Gloria Sánchez. That debate was about Lanbide; as Mrs Sánchez said, the areas were previously separate, right? It was okay; it was okay. Secondly, the agreement, the agreement of that day; that day we agreed on Lanbide: 66 in favour, 9 abstentions and no one against. A good start, a good start! Third, the initiative, as today, of Mrs Garrido, but also of Mrs Guanche, was a... the initiatives piled up, don't forget this, eh?, Mrs Garrido, that era of the two. In this sense, Mrs Garrido seems to me important – as I have already told you – that the initiative should be brought in; but if, in a few months' time, in 15 consecutive speeches, she systematically tells us that the People's Party was the first to bring this initiative to the House, she will understand that some and some of us are also beginning to remind her of the day of the marmot, I think it is understandable. In any case, the content... Let me see, I cannot – I want to be honest, right? – give up my vision altogether; I cannot give up my vision totally. But I can promise I'll do everything I can to get close to that good start. Your text, Mrs Garrido, we have amended it in three points; but, to a large extent, our text of amendment, I understand that it has been exceeded, extended and detailed by the presentation of your general lines, of the department, without any doubt. That's why I'd like to retrieve some messages, which I consider keys to those lines. Two major transformations to achieve maximum efficiency in the recovery of employment and to leave no one behind. For this reason, it is up to this department, this government, to lead and complete two major challenges: one, to achieve an effective public system of personalized employment, which connects the needs of companies with the training needs of workers; two, to strengthen the social protection network, so that no one who needs it will be left without a resource, but above all, so that fewer people need it, because, precisely, we have succeeded in the first, in facilitating employment opportunities. The Basque Government, its Labour and Employment department, is never going to hide the difficulties, but it is not going to paralyse itself for them either; on the contrary, its determination – and here I am going to unite – and our determination is key. This Parliament will adopt a law on income guarantee and inclusion and will adopt a new law on the Basque Employment System. It is therefore necessary that we all look to the future, that we share the need to make those changes. Moreover, the current crisis demands it even more, if it can be. We must act. And to act in two areas and with two objectives: to strengthen social protection. We know, they were telling us that already... we know that you are already in it, and that you are without delay, that you have started without delay; you are reviewing both the bill and the contributions made by the dozens of experts and associations who appeared in committee. We know that, in its day, we have managed to reduce the number of beneficiaries, but the pandemic has changed the trend. We know that the management of the GIR, at the present time, is seriously undermining Lanbide's ability to act, as Mrs Sánchez reminded us by making more specific cases. We know – and he was telling us, and now I'm going to quote her, Sailburu He is right, too, on another issue he was commenting on; we will have time to talk about it. And I share his previous reflection: we start from a model of success, as all social organizations understand and defend. With his shortcomings, right. But it's still a reference model. So the starting point will be the virtue of our protection model, because only from that starting point will we be able to perfect what we believe is one of the tools that we have best known how to create. In short, we also want the protection network to be a real driver of social and labour inclusion. The second of the objectives. And if we agree that this process has to go, the one I described earlier, the one you described to us... it has to go along with the transformation of the Basque Employment System. The law of the Basque Employment System has to make Lanbide the most powerful tool for labour inclusion and training of workers; it has to bring together synergies, knowledge and best practices of all actors involved in employment policies. And Lanbide must be the vertebrate axis. It is not just about being effective in finding an opportunity for those who are unemployed, but also in thinking about those who are busy but need, for example, to adapt to new technologies. We're talking about a service of attention, of personalized intervention, from identifying future demands for professional skills and employment. Mrs Sánchez reminded us of the three mistakes: reorientation, recasting and reconciliation – forgiveness, relocation. Because, indeed, all these people, all these people!, we are, and I include myself, a capital from which Euskadi cannot dispense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u105	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u106	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, good evening to you all. And to you too, Mrs. Mountain. Clásicos de ayer y de hoy And I, actually, remember the record you were talking about. But when you've forgotten to mention it, I especially remember that the first initiative was to ensure the incomes of incomes and the suburbs of the profession... At both of them we made very extensive and very important agreements about the two subjects, but you forgot to say that these two agreements, both of them, unfortunately, had been disappointed in this government. And it's been a long time now. We've talked a lot about that, too. And, in fact, sometimes I feel closer to you and sometimes farther away than I did then. Ekimenari dagokionez, ba, aurreikusi zitekeen bezala, gaur, Garrido andrea, zurre ekimenak surprise gutxi eta betikotik asko izan du. We have Arregi andrea zeal – the lack of gaurko honetan era, Guanche andreaz apart – aipatzen zuena beti zur betiko karrakarena, ezta?, ba, hori, gaurkoa era. Both in your initiative two by one that has presented us today and in your intervention, although as subtle as ever, because I believe that it has been found, once again, – and I will tell you with all the affection of the world – that to you the subject of Lanbide, the unemployed, the unemployed, the income guarantee system, the perceptive people, those who are not, their vital experiences... He cares about a dick. You bring the initiative here because you have other interests, and you want to make a flag of them, don't you? And I'd like to be truly told that this discussion, this discussion you bring here, is sterile. I'd like to say it, but it's not, unfortunately it's not. And it is not thus, in years, that this strategy, which constantly makes the profiter of the revenue, suspects the whole extent of the system, has brought about the social constraint and stigmatization of its benefits, because it gives the results of your criminal and criminal discourse, the professor and divider. This tactical strategy has produced a tremendous influence on the collective collection of rentals. It worked like a tornado against the system and its benefits, and I've often said this in this affluence to guarantee the incomes, and consequently the rent's been touched, very touched, delegated, and in a similar situation, the profession. We believe that we ought to answer without warmth and firmness in the presence of such strategicities. Without ambition, on account of the determination of the subject, and our commitment to those who are in the worst condition, we have not made any correction to-day, because your enterprise will receive a complete negative, because the resolutions which are founded on your enterprise are firmly rejected by the Basque People, Mrs Garrido. And it is true, we have talked a great deal about the rents and professions of this legislature to guarantee revenues. We've talked more about the rent to ensure the revenues, because we agreed to make a public discussion about the profession, and the government decided to refuse it too. And we've known each other for a long time. One of them and another's intentions, priorities and attitudes, are well known, and I dare say that all the cards are on the table, at least ours. Look, the production of social employment for the Basque Country is one of those fat village targets, one of the main missions we have in hand. And in this intention, it is an indispensable piece for us, the profession. We want a public, strong, refaling, effective, and transparent employment service, which will be effective and precursive when handling the passive activity of this country and the public affairs of the citizens which they require. And if you're willing to do that, you'll be with us. As you're here, Mrs. Mountain, I'm telling you too. In the same way, our team has an essential income to support our incomes to protect the dignity and ability of every person, but it's obvious that the system designed for dysfunctions and limitations is now 30 years ago. To enlarge the efficiency and protection of the system, to improve its daily dysfunctions and motives, to improve the system management and to improve the system, and to restore the continents around it, is our goal. We aspire to regain the Basque Autonomous Community's capacity for innovation in protection, and to take advantage of the window of opportunity opened to us with the minimum vital income and the transfer that will have to come from passive employment policies, to address a new design of our income guarantee system and move towards a more universal, less conditioned, more standardised, more far-reaching and effective model. Eta hor aurkituko gaituzue, huh? Eta gauzak horrela, ikusirik ekimena and ikusirik emendakinak, zenbait kontu aipatu nahi nituzke. Alderdi Popularrari esan nahi nioke aurrean edukiko gaituzuela horrelako diskurtsoekin jarraituz gero, ezta? Baina, Gobernua supportgatzen two tanneries esan nahi diot – lehenago era esan dizuet – batzuetan, ba, lehenago bath urrunago gaudela feel doubt it. Batzuetan gertuago, adibidez, éta lehengoan hala esan nuen, Mendia andreak bergerraldia hemen egin Zuenean. Eta, bastetik, urrunago zuen emendakina ikusten dubiousan. Because Mrs Sánchez said that Mrs Garrido's initiative was not necessary after Mrs Mendia's appearance. It would also have been super interesting for you to have made an amendment to the whole that was in line with what Mrs Mendia raised here. And he's not. And he's not! In fact, what plans are there behind the profession, it is not clear to me. What you're planning on doing this modernization process is, but this process of modernization has been repeated to us over and over again that it was on the way, that it was done. The mountain referred to the transformation, the transformation... what has it from the hip that you've received here in this amendment? I don't see it. And to guarantee the incomes for rent, a request: Take care of what you love. Lets be decir que RGI es un mecanism de èxito, en el que se inspiran oberos que busantes proteger a la ciudadía. Y sleep y lo ha sido. Y está bien sacar pecho con eso. But even the dysfunctions and limitations of the revenue are revealed. And the last poverty even shows that it has lost its powers of protection. To say this is not to oppose the system, but rather to maintain it. And now it's time to stop and repair, because there are so many things to repair. Eta horretan, guri harrigarria iruditzen zaigu Gobernu honek galdu izana aukera bear-oso inportante bat berber hiritarrak zaindu eta babesteko. To better and better protect the citizenry, when we have come all the flood of the COVID, having a tool that did not have other communities, and that you have opted for the aid system, instead of asserting the subjective right to the income guarantee that we have recognized in this country. I am surprised that you have not made any changes to be able to adapt it and have opted for a less-guaranteed system. Because now they tell us, "No, protection will come from reform." But the reform is going to take a while. Let's assume it'll take us a year to process. You were proposing that we start from the reform proposal that you brought to... here, weren't you? Contemplating a legal holiday I don't know; it's not clear to me... Eta, benetan, eta, benetan, gauden kontestuan, Garrido andreak ekarri duen ekimenaren kontestuan, zinez mingarria da, onartezina, eta urruntzen gaitu izugarri, zuek berriz ere initiatiba honetan, ore lau urte bezala, which suggest that one of the axes of action will also be the control of aids and benefits. It seemed to me that with the new air there were some screens that would be already out of date or that at least would be disguised. But, hey, no, he shows up here. That Mrs Sánchez is then surprised, but that is in her amendment. And I would ask for consistency and clarity. I would ask for consistency and clarity! Mirad, we all know where we are, and we all know what's behind this Batavi Party initiative. Aviso a Navegantes Take care of what you love, but perhaps love him less and love him better.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u107	Thank you, Madame Kortaja's. Passing the answer round, representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadanos, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, several spokesmen said that if it's a recurring theme, the raca raca, the day of the marmot... Well, then, ask yourself, and especially Mr. Aiartza. You were telling me that if this was the first initiative I presented in the previous legislature... do the corresponding self-criticism and corresponding reflection. And, indeed, there was agreement there, but then you, after that agreement, did nothing, and what you did wrong. And, above all, not through the instrument with which you had committed yourselves to accomplish it. I, Mrs Martínez, thank you for your contribution, with the matisation, obviously, that I have made to you. And as you well know, I imagine that you have bothered to read the hemerotheque, that we have been dealing with these issues for a long time, and that we continue to raise them, because the Government has obviously not done what it should have done in this area. Mr. Hernandez... Well, I don't think it's about criminalizing anyone, it's about the aid and the system working effectively, being sustainable, being fair and being in the system the people who really need it; no more or less. I believe that in that we could even agree; the problem is that this very basic approach, you then draw it up and make absolutely partisan approaches, and that, of course, I do not think that it helps to look for precisely that system that we defend. And, in that sense, of course, your proposals and ours differ substantially. It said that it is a generic proposal; I do not see that it is a generic proposal: we are talking about reforming the social protection system, social aid, through the amendment of the current law, the law of 2011. I don't know, Mrs. Sanchez... Of course, when I hear him certain qualifications in this rostrum that, whatever he wants, do not hit him with his trajectory or with his education; they are exuberant, of course, that I believe they are out of place. And I don't know whether it would also seem xenophobic to you the agreement that we reached in 2011 with you, when Patxi López was in the government, in which the registration period of one to three years was increased, where one could reject, in the 2008 legislation, up to three years a job, and we modified it so that only one job could be rejected, where we increased controls on social assistance. I don't know if that deal seemed xenophobic to him then. I don't know if he also found the rebate announced by Vice-Lehendakari at a press conference, at that time as a government spokesman, reducing the amount of GIR by 7%. So, I think everyone here has to know where they've been and, above all, where they want to be. And it is good to respect the legitimate positions of the various political parties, which is the core of our democracy. Mr. Aiartza, I have already told you: you have not fulfilled. Well, it's six years from Mr. Urkullu's government. I began my intervention by pointing out that Councilwoman Artolazabal... I know she's out of the matter now. Yeah, I know... I know you used to be from the Department of Employment and Social Policy, and now Employment is taking you to Mrs. Mendia. Man, let me also say that I do not have much confidence in employment, when this subject, the subject of employment, is in the hands of the Socialist Party, as we have seen. Let us also allow us, from the People's-Citizens Coalition, to have mistrust. But, in any case, I wish you luck, Mrs Mendia, and, above all, well, that we can see and realize that reform of the GIR. Obviously, if it doesn't come in the sense that we think it has to be, obviously, we will also amend it. Mrs Kortajarena, I was also surprised by some word you said, because from the difference I always believe that you have been characterized by being respectful and, obviously, here everyone defends their positions. I respect in this matter the positions which you defend; although, logically, we are not going to have any point of coincidence. And you said that at the end of your speech: the government will have to choose. Of course, it's just that I think that was the dilemma also in the past legislature. The Basque Nationalist Party-Socialist government had no majority. In that circumstance and in that political situation, another group was needed, and there was the dilemma, whether it was approaching the positions of the People's Party – of demand and of really setting up a fair system, and that the objective was employability and that the system had a door of entry and a door of exit – or approaching other positions, which are really very different from those of the People's Party. Now you'll see if you want to widen that deal, where you have to look. But I believe that the Popular Party line is very clear, and not only because of what I – and this group – have manifested today in this rostrum, but for a long time now. In 2011, as you also know, it was so, and you were on the path, at that time, that marked the People's Party, accepting some of our demands. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u109	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mrs Martínnez. From...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u110	I'm just going to make a little appreciation of Mr. Hernandez. We don't criminalize. Look at what the Álava Prosecutor's Office – I repeat, the Álava Prosecutor's Office – says, not us: "It considers it necessary to improve the control of the management of social benefits, since there has been an important activity of criminal organizations, specialized in obtaining illegal documentation from persons of foreign origin, in order to obtain, improperly, social benefits such as income guarantee income...". I repeat, I do not say it; it is said by the Álava Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u111	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. We represent the Podemos-IU team together. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u112	Yes, of course they are criminalizing and, in addition, they are using this kind of news simply to stir up a stir in a Parliament, because that is all you are interested in. They take news of this kind – the People's Party did it before, and now you come to do the same – and they put a magnifying glass on it, expand it, create alarmism between society and, precisely, between the humblest layers of society. And you play with them, and you play with them. Because the problem of people who don't access these kinds of measures, who are a subjective right... The problem of people who do not access, when they should access, is not the small fraud that may have occurred or the fact that there has been some news like the one you mentioned. So what you do is you try to generate hatred among people who need this kind of help most, and that is a classic attitude and a classic policy of lifelong fascism, since the 1930s. That's right. And you're still in it. Mrs Garrido, man, I do believe that your initiative is generic, and, moreover, when you described it, it is generic, and I do not say it in a pejorative sense; in fact, I am glad, because if the initiative had been concrete, with what the People's Party proposes on these matters, then I would have come out in another attitude, and, let me say, I would have given you more wood, because your reform model is far from ours, because you have said something that you are right about, and I agree – Mrs Kortajarena has said so too; I think that we agree with these three groups – that the parties that support the Government, and the Basque Government, in this matter, will have to choose, not because we ask you to choose between fellow travellers, not, but because what the People's Party proposes in these matters and what other groups we propose in these matters is very distant and is moving in the opposite direction. And that's why we're going to ask the counselor... We will wait to see what the concrete approaches are, both in Lanbide and in income guarantee income and social inclusion. We will wait to see what they are proposing, but the message we want to convey to them, taking advantage of this debate that has been brought to the House, is that what was on the table at the end of the previous parliamentary term is not for us, as far as income guarantee income is concerned. We were very forceful; it seems to us that it was a step back. And, if there is a change, we are not going to use it to make blood as far as the government is concerned; we want a change, so that these policies are more useful and that people – and precisely the people who need it most – live better in Euskadi. That is what we are asking of you in this regard, taking advantage of this debate. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u113	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u114	To see, Mrs Garrido, it seems, when you are heard speaking, that income guarantee income is placed at the centre of the debate, thanks exclusively to the People's Party; but, of course, Mrs Garrido, I assure you that I have a lot of education and I thank you for referring to my trajectory, and, thanks to that trajectory too, I have memory and there is hemeroteca. And you said that for six years here you haven't been trying to get to..., you haven't been able to do income-guarantee reform. But why hasn't that reform been done? If you have a lot of sin in which that reform has not been carried out. Let's see. That we all know the story. That many of us here were in the 10th Legislature; here was his colleague, Mr Maroto – and precisely I do not say this; we said, I believe, many members of this House –: Mr Maroto made a homophobic and racist speech on this subject, and prevented a serene speech from being made, so that the reform of income guarantee income could be carried out in that Legislature. And that's a reality; it's not an insult. It's a reality of what happened! And from there, we came to the 11th Legislature. In order to make progress in the reform of income guarantee income, we consider the Basque nationalist group and the socialist group that, bringing it as a legislative proposal, we could draw and advance and advance that discourse, and separate it from the elections that were to come in 2019. That's what we're trying to do. A year we've been trying to negotiate. A year; not a few days, no. A year! He didn't make it. And you didn't come up with a proposal that year. At least the Elkarrekin Podemos group and the EH Bildu group put proposals on a table. There was no agreement. June 2019. The proposal for a law is brought here again, because, if an agreement cannot be reached here, we will return it to the Basque Government, so that it will continue as a bill. What are you guys doing? Oh, come here and abstain. And he stays here again. Appearances begin for the whole subject of the proposed law, so that it is processed here, and you what you say again in the speech: "It is that I do not understand how this proposed law follows here. " Well, if I didn't understand, why did they abstain and leave the bill here? To have voted against it, and to have it returned to the Government at that time. No, you abstain, but you say again that you did not agree, because, of course, because of that way of bringing it, you did not agree. It's just that they've been very incoherent throughout all of this. And, of course, it is not thanks to you; it is because of you that we still do not reform income guarantee income. It's the opposite. Fortunately, in this legislature, there is a different majority, and we add the majority of the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, eh?, in order to be able to work and take out a reform of income guarantee income. That, of course, will not prevent us from trying to reach agreements with the rest. Because we have defended here, and others know it, that I have defended it in the previous parliamentary term, that such a reform must come out with as much consensus as possible. And that consensus is going to work. And we're going to try to get that maximum consensus. Of that, I have no doubt what will be done. And when he comes, we'll try. But do not try to put on medals that do not belong to you, but quite the contrary, because in this the People's Party has all the sin of the world, that we are in the situation in which we are right now. Anyway, don't worry. Don't worry about it. We will achieve the reform, and the Vice-Lehendakari and Counsellor of Labour and Employment will bring the reform and the modified project, with all the improvements that will be introduced, and with the minimum vital income within. And we will certainly be able to reach a consensus, so that we can get it out within this legislature. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u115	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mr. Arratz shouldn't speak a word. Gather EH, Mrs. Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u116	Yeah. I know you're tired. Lehenik eta behin, esan nahi dut, Mrs. Garrido, who didn't think that "kit" was for so much; that was a word for so much. But in any case, I apologize. I didn't mean to offend you. And I've told you from the love, but I think that all of this matters to you, and that you have other interests. Nor do I want to offend anyone with this that I am going to say, and I am going to try to say it measured, but it is also that I am up to the point that the poorest people are constantly blamed for the situations they live in. It is done directly or it is done in a subtle way. Because income-guarantee income does not have a problem of fraud of perceiving people. It has many problems, linked to management. A lot. But I think very few systems have the level of fraud that income-guarantee income has. So, I say it again: I am up to the point that poor people are blamed for the situations, the vital experiences of poverty, that they are living. And I think we must also be very clear. For Euskal Herria Bildu, this was a red line when we negotiated income guarantee income reform. In the amendment of the groups supporting the Government, the issue of control of aid appeared. They also made you complicit in the entities of the third sector, and it was a red line that we removed from there. Come in, please, screen. I already know that this has other outcomes, but I think it is an important enough issue, that it has an impact on people's lives important enough and that we are in a situation complicated enough, so that we can get rid of these stories already. I hope I didn't offend anyone, but I was clear. That is why I ask you yourselves for the same clarity and consistency. I mean it, and this is what I mean again, and the day before, even in the day of Mrs. I shall certainly be glad to have the Idola run the way it marked when the Mountain made its opening here, whether we have the reform of the rental law, or of course we have our differences, and this process of modification of profession, and those activities which you have arranged for the following days, if you try to guide them to the ends which are marked. I'll be glad if he does, even if it's clear that we'll have our differences with you. All of you. That's clear. But that is not what you received in your repentance. It's so far from what you've received in your amendment. And such things pass, and they will pass through the former law, over and over again. One thing is said, there are plans, pero, luego, casalomete, hay momentos en los que les ve la patita. "Se les ve la patita, y resulta que mendes coincidencias con los grupos propontes, con el grapo proponte." Because Mrs. Sánchez mentioned Mr. Maroto. But it is that Mrs Artolazabal brought here the fingerprint, and you defended it vehemently – I don't know if it is said so. So, a little coherence and clarity. Hori eskatzen dugu guk. I think that way, and I said the other day, we could find him. And we have all the preparations for this effort. You know where we're going to be, where our proposals are, E.N.O.S.P.S.I., and where we are. And don't lose any chance, because now the opportunity windows are open: one with IMV. They open up with transfers of passive policy... But in this country, the agents who have been employed and learned in these matters have drawn us to five or six of us a vast continent about the elements. Prove it. Provest, because then you all go to every act of the third sector, take pictures of them, take pictures of them, show your dignity for your cooperation, but then we bring them here, make specific proposals, try to build these consensus, and you say to them: "Muy interest. Lo vamos a tener en cuenta." You don't take any proposition at all. Eta kontuan hartu beharreko gauza bat: zuek, propositionen bezala, oinarri bezala, honi helpzeko, hartzen duzue bere momentuan ekarri zenuten lege-erreforma hori: that bill, with which the only one that was comfortable was Mrs. Garrido, who, incidentally, was the only one left out of the agreement to reform the RGI. Then please: a little light, some consistency, a little firmness, a little determination, and a little courage. That way, that way... We can find him. We'll never find him on his way. And even in the way of ambiguity, we shall not be found.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. The discussion is over and we'll vote first, and then we'll add the Mistos to the band. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 74; the supporters 1, 68; abstations, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u118	The add correction was not therefore accepted. Next, we will vote for the original text of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 6; the opponents, 68; abstentions, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u119	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote together for the full correction of the Podemos-IU. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 47; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u120	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the Eucalists in full-governance set up by the teams. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 32; abscessation, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-22.u121	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three and thirteen in the afternoon.
