ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we begin, I must say that the sixteenth-year-old has withdrawn. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, "About the new program to rebuild the Eucalogy and Society." Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u1	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. First of all, I'd like to remember that in this question, I'm a substitute, because I'm supposed to be doing it by my colleague, Therit. And I make use of this for the sake of the best wishes of my party, and to show him hope that he will soon participate in his parliamentary labours. Having said this, the President, in the annual assembly of the Community, announced that a new program for the Esquecadian economy and the rebuilding of society would be set up for the next four years, 10,000 million euros. Subsequently, at the previous Governing Council, he presented it in his great strokes. It is not new or original to say that the pandemic has left us very much touched in all areas, from health, the main consequence, to economic and social, causing increases in unemployment and deterioration of business and services. That is why not only do we understand the plan announced and outlined by you, but we are with the Government that you preside over that this plan must be the backbone of your political action in the coming years. The best way to become a society of higher equality, to become a reality of social politics, and not to remain behind in the solidary progress of society, is to increase economic development and the production of employment in a balanced and permanent manner, but to increase it. In the face of the crisis caused by an unexpected event, everything has to be brought back as no one expected just a year ago, and we must recompose what has been torn apart in just a few weeks to return to the path of a more just, balanced and supportive society. That is why we understand this plan – despite accusations of inactivity and paralysis to his government, the result of easy, sterile dialectics derived from the inability for serious criticism – as an enormously positive and hopeful engine for Basque society. Regardless of the announcement of the initiative and the outline of the plan's skeleton, but knowing that you can't wait too long to start rebuilding an evil economic activity, we would like to know what the forecast is for its start-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u2	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u3	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Mr. Tellería, and in your name, Mr. Italte, this program is a... We shared our fundamental proposal on Tuesday at the Government Council, and our goal is to accept it in a month. Knowing the state we live in, our priority is to restore economy and employment: On the one hand helps to rouse the economy and the business world, and thereby helps to recover all lost employment and to create new employments. The target for this program is set all over the decade. We have clearly to answer our present problem and our needs. That's why we've started, among other things, the fund to guarantee corporations that offer $1,000 dollars. To this end also the aids directed to several sectors, among whom industry, trade, first sector, or culture. We agreed to a plan of 1,550 million euros for this media, and we're running. But with this close perspective, we need a long-term view. After all, pandemia has reached a transition point, and the decisions we've made now will condition our economic future. We are facing a cycle change, and our resources must have three directions: digitalization, green economy, social contemplation. We have to make these three transitions the choice, and for this we must reorganize the euscal economy, renew and re-election. This overall framework incorporates a government budget commitment: EUR 7,935 million in economic recovery, EUR 3,700 million in corporate and self-employment guarantees and EUR 1,615 million in job creation. We count on the support of the borrowing capacity of 3.5% agreed in the Joint Commission of the Concert, in an agreement that has taken a new step in the recognition of the uniqueness of the Basque self-government. In two weeks we will also have the resources forecast agreed within the Basque Finance Council. And on this basis we support and submit budget allocations, investments and programmes in contrast with all economic and social institutions and actors. This contrast is necessary because this crisis occurs within the framework of three global transitions: technology and digital, energy and climate, health and social. It is up to us to share a comprehensive country strategy to advance in a digital Euskadi, a green Euskadi and an inclusive Euskadi. This strategy needs all the contributions. We started this process with the three outlaws and municipalities, the representation of businesses and trade unions, chambers of commerce, Economic and Social Council, cooperatives, anonymous labour societies, Elkargi, etc. The Government attends these meetings with the will to listen, receive contributions and incorporate them into the economic and employment recovery plan. The difficulties of the situation are known. Therefore, with all modesty, the resurrect program is open. We'll compare it with organizations and social operatings, the Sociaal Table and Table Society. We'll get results, we'll get the program arranged and take it in a month to repine the program: 13.250 million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Okiñena of Maddalen, a member of the EH Collectors made for the president, in order to lighten the effect of the Pandemia." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u5	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Urkullu. You're beginning to talk about the future, but if they're going to talk about the future, there's a few things that we're supposed to have to discuss before, which, we think, marjoke has announced a number of proportions about how to lighten the effect of the pandemade, and yet, in some cases, they're not doing the whole thing, either the details that are being made up according to his official data, or in some other cases it's been discovered that these precautions have been false. That's why I'm asking you if you're doing the right measures that you think you're doing to lighten the consequences of the grandemade.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe, Mrs. Iris, that since March, the effects of the pandemia have been relieved, and I believe that the measures which we have predicted from the March have been more and more effective, the errors have been failing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u9	Mr. President, by the answer to a meeting of the Basque People, we have learned that they have not yet received the aid which has been foretold to the workers in the ERTAIN. In fact, there have been about 200,000 people in that situation, or they're, and they'll get the help you see from 78800 or so. It seems, then, to us that it is too late, because it is time to be needed, and because people are in great need, and on the other hand they are ignorant of it. And there are more examples either in culture or education or in other matters. The measures then taken are but few in some cases, and in some cases they have not yet been divided, and I suppose they have been ill-designed, because they have been difficult to reach the people. I believe time, temporality, is of great importance, because people have wants now, and some things that are not now answered may not be answered later. And now And speaking of the future, we begin to talk about the future, I come to the rebirth program to my reflection. He gets different parts, important parts, all of them. To the truth, the games were in budgets, the ones before the COVID, and now they're extended to the whole legislation. We believe there may be some innovations, because in new situations we need new things. But, coming to the concrete, I think that resurregation of plans is the principal aim of creating corporations, helping corporations, employment, and, more especially, of promoting young employment. What I'm asking you is, apart from all this conversation you're going to discuss, whether we're also going to be political and opposite groups in this conversation, which is the strategy of the Ægana Government in order to guide us into, which reflection has been about the roots of this people. Because, as a matter of fact, advanced companies, placed in challenges of ecological transition, and producing a proper employment, we need to answer to this country properly. And while we're talking about jobs, and we're talking about high-quality jobs, we've learned from 2008 that they're always the same in character. And we can't condemn our young men to morality, or we can always leave women to the pay-roll. I mentioned this several times during the inquest, I mentioned the public leader in a particular direction, in order to develop social employments. And for that, I think, Mr. Urkullu, we have to talk, talk to each other. And therefore let me ask you one last question: how is the neighbourhood possible without a conversation?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. I have already said, Madam, that since March, the effects of the pandemic have been relieved, and there is nothing more to remember than what state we lived in. On March 13 we accepted our medical alarm and the 14th alarm was accepted. The courses were closed, the companies had to be closed, the transport was broken, all the families had to be locked up in their houses. In March and April we had great difficulty in supporting medical services in order to ensure materials, in order to maintain professional groups. I believe from March, that public services have dedicated an excellent and effective task in dealing with situations that have never happened. And I believe, as has been said before, that the measures which have been announced here from the marchia have been more and more efficient. You mention the delay, for example, in supplementary aid to ERTs. Right. We received only 15 days ago the data from the Public Employment State System, SEPE, which we need to be able to process the supplements of the ERTE. Our commitment is to manage, as soon as possible, the 8,000 applications received and to pay the EUR 150 supplement agreed at the Social Dialogue Bureau, now extended until 31 January. He quotes culture, aid to culture. We have committed EUR 2.5 million. We have received 330 requests and 312 have already been resolved. In addition, we have called for a grant line of 2 million for micro-enterprises in the cultural sector. The 77 applications received are under processing. He cites, for example, education, and, indeed, I quote the hiring of teachers. More than 3,300 replacement contracts have already been completed. More than 600 people have been hired to reinforce the dining room service. In-person education is being maintained within reasonable parameters. So the measurements have been effective, but we haven't exceeded the situation. We've got problems, we know them, but we've taken measures and we'll keep taking measures. Today, the consequences are lighter and, if we continue that way, tomorrow will be lighter. We know the emotional dimension of the moment we live in, too. We know the effect which the prince has on people, families, and community life, as well as corporations. From March here we are living tall men of difficulty and ignorance. Each of us must take responsibility for it, and we must not look for any one to reproach him with our inability and fears. This is our priority, which must be common to all. I told you at the inquest, Mrs. Iriart, and I'll repeat to you: this is not the time to mingle with sterile polemics. This is a time for a partnership. It's a time for the neighborhood. And our door is open and there will be, Mrs. Irart. The door to the interview, to receive suggestions, and to agree with the efficient measures, is open to start. I propose also the resurrect plan, based on two columns, and with a line of continuity, in order to prevent predominance. And even for that, I have the door open to receive all possible contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Ekain Rico, a member of the Basque Sozama Sociialists, of the second vice president, and of the Chief of Staff and Eplegus, the strategy of restoring the tendency of unemployment." Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u13	Thank you, señora, president. Senora vice frontada. We are at a time when, in addition to health, people's main concerns go through the employment and economic and social reconstruction of Euskadi, so that no one will be left behind. Without going into a war of numbers, in the field of employment there are some issues that we can all be clear about. Before the pandemic, we created jobs and activity indicators were positive. The COVID-19 pandemic and its social and economic consequences have brought the world and also Euskadi to a new stage. We came out of an economic crisis caused by the financial sectors and again it is up to us to face up to it as a society that is now the result of this initial health crisis. The ERTE instrument, born of social dialogue promoted by the Government of Spain, as well as the complements agreed through the social dialogue promoted by the Basque Government, whose extensions, by the way, have been agreed this week, have been fundamental in defending employment in the worst of this crisis. But it is clear that, despite the success of this instrument, it has not been possible to prevent the destruction of employment. And with this, in Euskadi, after a few years of positive developments in unemployment rates, which were less than 10% for the first time since the previous crisis, this barrier has again been overcome. Madam Vice-Lehendakari, you know very well and at first hand the historic commitment of the Socialists to employment. The new Basque Government has set itself the objective of returning to the path of employment growth and of reducing the unemployment rate by 10 %. In fact, this is the first axis of action in the agreement signed by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. And it could say many more things, but, in our view, everything can be summed up in the fact that the maintenance of jobs, with a clear bet against precariousness, against temporality and in favour of equality, together with the revival of our productive economy, must be the axis that marks our policy in the short and medium term. That is why, Mrs Vicelehendakari, we ask you: How does your department intend to tackle the challenge of reversing the trend of unemployment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u14	Thank you, Mr. Rico. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u15	Good morning, ma'am, president. Good morning, everyone. Today there are 144,758 people in Euskadi who are looking for employment and who do not find it. There are 1,692 fewer people than last month. But there have been 29,211 more since February, when the pandemic broke out. And there are 79,027 women who continue to seek employment. And it's true that they're the ones who recovered the most space this month, but they're still the majority on the unemployment lists, especially those over 45. And still almost half of the unemployed are long-term unemployed. There are 2,482 more people in this situation. Government receives data with prudence and hope. We've never known a crisis like this before, and we've learned that even if things are well done, the virus can lead us to the starting point. Our object is to get women, young people, who are more than two years old in unemployment, and who are more than 45 years old, and the facts make that commitment stronger. But we see that we have learned how to do some things well, and that to-day they give us more courage for our proposed project. The Government will never hide from this harsh reality that thousands of families are going through, but we will not hide the data that invites us to hope. Some are the ERTE, a highly successful instrument, which has saved almost 200,000 jobs at the worst times. 84% of these workers have already returned to their jobs. And this week we have had two great news that reinforces them: the extension of the ERTE until 31 January, in an agreement of the Dialogue Bureau in Madrid, and the extension of the complements for those who continue in ERTE, the fruit of the social dialogue here in Euskadi. It's up to my department to help companies resist and prepare them to compete. They need trained workers for digitization, ecological transition, the circular economy. They know the basics of the framework programme to encourage 135,000 quality jobs. The general objectives in figures have been explained by the lehendakari. But in that programme and in the strategy that must be developed not only do we want to put figures, we want to put the working people and businesses at the centre of our work. And we're going to do it with R+D+i, with innovation, with dialogue and with equality. Innovation, because an unprecedented moment needs new answers. We're going to stick the training plans to the economic reality, and we're going to review whatever it takes for Lanbide to be useful, for companies to find the workers prepared for what they really need. Dialogue, because we need the social partners, but also the other institutions. The more we collaborate, the more effective we will be. Equality, because we all have to get out of it, without leaving anyone out of it, especially the most difficult groups, both young people and those over 45, women and people with disabilities. And it is an immense challenge that requires a great deal of consensus. That's what I've been talking about with the social partners, with whom I've met, nothing more than taking on my responsibility. And I also want to count on this Parliament. Because we will transfer to the citizenry that we are able to add above our differences. We have a road map attached to the ground, but with a long-term look. We are already working on the employment strategy. We have the social partners, the municipalities, the deputies and the Government of Spain. But, above all, we have 144,758 people who are still unemployed and who need all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidedez, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU team for the head of the health department, about the conditions of permanent attention." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u17	Good morning, chief physician. As you know perfectly well, continuous care points are very important points or centers in our public health system. They are important for citizens, who thank them – we think – because they represent a fundamental service outside the hours of health centers, a service designed to be an agile service, but also because they represent a fundamental key part within the system itself and prevent hospital emergencies from being overloaded and even suffering from collapses in times of health stress. During this pandemic you in Osakidetza have had to reorganize many things – we are aware of the situation – but some of these reorganizations have involved closures of points of continuous attention, changes in schedules and cuts in schedules, and have had a negative impact on public health and on the service given to citizens in Euskadi. From my group we are concerned about the situation and the future of the points of continued attention and, since you are opening up in office, we wanted to know your opinion on the current situation of the points of continued attention and on your intentions for the future and, above all, how you appreciate the number of points that exist and the resources that you have, in particular the human resources that you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u18	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u19	Congressmen, all good days. The main function of the point of continued care, in fact, is to cover the timetables in which health centres close. Certainly, as you pointed out, the COVID-19 pandemic has forced the functioning of virtually all health services to be reorganized according to each epidemiological and health-care situation, including the CAP in Euskadi and in all the countries of the world, but all this without prejudice to the attention being paid. In fact, there are currently more than 25 points of continuous attention in the whole of Euskadi, and there has been an increase in the number of staff attending to them. The fact that the volume of emergency assistance has not increased confirms the sufficiency of the benefit offered by the CAP. So in answer to your question: yes, considering the means we are in, I should regard the present state. It is because he is able to answer the resistance of the demand at the time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u21	Yes, thank you. We thank you for the answer, although the truth is that we do not remain calm knowing that you consider the situation of the points of continued attention to be good, because in our group we think it is not, and we are concerned about the future. Firstly, because different points of continued attention have been closed. It is true that you say that in a short time, but the truth is that we have also seen that there is a history in Osakidetza with some important points, such as one of the two that existed here in Gasteiz, that were closed. The Basque Government at that time also assured the doctors that it would reopen on 5 October. Finally it was closed definitively, which means in a city of more than 250,000 inhabitants, where they have left with only one point of continuous attention. We think that this forces many people to deviate to hospital emergencies, and that is why we think there is such a history and we are concerned about the future of these points. We believe that the necessary resources are not being allocated for both primary care – they have already heard us say this on more than one occasion – and for the points of continued care. And, therefore, we are going to work and we are going to ask you to allocate the necessary resources. I have to be honest with you: I was hoping for another kind of answer. I regret that you are satisfied with the current situation on these points. We think that in these months there have been many people who have stopped going to the public health system when they needed to go and, therefore, we think that the figures you give us do not conform to reality when you say that hospital emergencies have not increased. We believe that these points are fundamental. Former CAP officials have said on more than one occasion that the CAP could more agilely take care of 25% of the current hospital emergencies, and therefore we think they need to be given more resources and this is some of the things that we believe are being asked of health professionals who, as you know, are mobilizing these days. So what we are asking you to do is to sit with them, to sit with them to talk about these issues, and we are asking you to reconsider that positive assessment you make of the current situation of the points of continued attention, because we know that in many places – people are moving it to us – you have real problems with the displacement and, therefore, we think that this can be improved.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u22	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez, your time is up. And, ma'am, I'm happy to hear from you. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u23	I insist: the current situation of the CAP responds to a situation, the situation and the present demand for assistance. To the extent that we manage a public service, we must adjust the resources we provide to the demand of the moment. I'll give you an example. Professionals were asked to prioritize their summer vacations with the expectation of a possible higher incidence of COVID in the coming months. Thus, before the 12th of October, all staff are reinstated. The resources of any public system are limited and must be managed efficiently. That's what we're trying to do. The solution is not always more and more, but responsible and effective management. And this applies not only to the CAP, but also to the rest of the services offered by the Basque public health system. It is not possible to talk about non-contracting, cuts, when it is the data themselves that endorse it on their own, and forcefully. There are thousands of people hired in Osakidetza right now above the usual staff. And I also use this rostrum to remember again what I said since I accepted this responsibility: my hand is stretched out. And so it continues, because I believe that it is dialogue and not systematic confrontation that is the way forward. Auzolan. There hasn't been any constraints and won't be in the eupscal health system again, I say: conversation is the way we want to deal with it. And with that will we go to the meetings already arranged with the unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Five point in theme list: "Ask me about the measurements of the basic elapsing services of Charles Iturgaz, the popular group of the Angulo Euskals, the member of the Ciudadans to the president." My dear sir, your word is yours. From here?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u25	Good morning, Chief of Parliament. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. My question will be the question my team has for you: In what time, Lehendakari, do you expect to address the serious deficiencies in the non-instant care of essential services dependent on the Basque Government?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u27	Chief of Parliament. Sir, I'd rather talk about action before you start talking about the deadlines. And, if you like, I'll explain it to you on the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u29	Chief of Parliament. Mr Lehendakari, we have asked for a deadline, I imagine it will give us a deadline, for the sake of Basque society. He'll also give us a diagnosis. But I wanted to tell you that the diagnosis of society is done every day by the tens of thousands of Basques who have to face, who have to face online or by phone different institutions that we know very well in our land, such as Osakidetza or Lanbide. And I can assure you that this management of citizenship is dependent on it. They are real situations of collapse, they are situations of malfunction, of delays that cause and are causing harm to thousands and thousands of Basques. Look, I'm going to give you two examples, from this very week, from the end of September. First: Osakidetza, one person, 17 calls in Bizkaia to a health center to get to talk to someone, three more days for the head doctor to return the call and one more week for the appointment. Lanbide, someone else. I told you already and you will remember it in the investiture debate: that we all know it's a disaster, but it was a disaster since before the pandemic. It is true that it is now easier to contact Lanbide than in March or April, but there is no information, there is no way to contact well. There are thousands of unsolved files that had to be resolved months ago, such as the supplements to ERTE. The two examples are real and from this very week, and they affect family members of our parliamentary group, without going any further. That is why I want to tell you that I know that there are other administrative services which are also not functioning, such as the INSS, the National Social Security Institute, which are responsible for a government which, by the way, you have put and maintain, Mr Sánchez. There are also other institutions, other elements that are not working as they had to. But I ask you: what are you going to do, Mr Lehendakari? When will Osakidetza work with agility by telematics or by telephone? When will it be possible to relate to Lanbide by these means with complete normality? Or, which is the same thing, are you willing to compromise a deadline before this House, that is, before the Basque citizens, to remedy the collapse, saturation, endless delays in the non-personal relationship with the Administration? And I also want to ask you: what means will it put in place to achieve this? I imagine human and material means that cannot wait for a new budget, but we need to know what items your Government is going to allocate to all this I am asking you. Because that is your responsibility, not just to see how bad others do it, but to do it better than you and your Government have done so far. Our society is worried and that's why it needs solutions. We know it's a serious situation, and it's very serious, both in the Osar, and in the professions and so on. And then it's urgent to make a solution to this situation as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u30	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, first of all, I accept the problems we've been through. Since the beginning of Pandemia, and above all for the first three months, we had great difficulty in offering and securing public service. The health service was the priority and the problems you've been through are known. Even in education, we had to shut down schools, as I said before. We had difficulties with it in every department, even in public administration. That's how it was and we agreed. We've accepted and I accept. We have not hidden the problems in the provision of public services in the first few months. We suffer from saturation in the telephone service of the Health Council. We had problems meeting all requests for help received in Lanbide or requests for information in Zuzenean. We recognize it, I recognize it, and we have been improving service and attention. You're asking me for time-limits for a solution. And I am referring more to the facts, because more than time limits the issue is the continuous improvement day by day; not to put in time, but to improve day by day. Facts: Telematics consultations with Zuzenean have been doubled and all single payment aid for social services has been taken care of. 100 more people have been hired in Lanbide to process the files. All applications for public housing park rental aid have been processed. Eleven more people have been hired in the Basque Energy Authority to attend to 25,000 aid files. Legal services in the field of foreign affairs, family mediation or Berdindu operate normally. Also the phone number of the Health Council. Osakidetza has reached the historical peak of 39,000 professionals working in response to the needs of the pandemic. In this very complex situation, the Administration's response is improving day by day. That's why I prefer to talk about continuous improvement. In any case, I recognize the problems, and we will continue to work on the continuous improvement of public services, prioritizing the essentials of health, education and social protection. I have not denied the difficulties, Mr Iturgaiz, and I do not think you have heard me talk about how bad others may be doing. Never. Now, let us not forget the context: from one day to another, health emergency, state of alarm and instant and total confinement. Let's be honest, this is an unknown reality and for which no one in the whole world was prepared. It is true that some care offices affected by the coronavirus have been closed on time and appointments have been cancelled. It is also true that protection measures for workers and users have been adopted and strengthened in the areas of public care, which has allowed, is allowing, to reduce the time limits of summons to an average of three days. This situation has come to stay and our goal is that the relationship between Administration and citizenship can also be managed in a telematic way. The pandemic is going to be the biggest motivator for strengthening the digitization of the public administration. And this is a commitment of our program and we are working to achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. The sixth point in the subject list. "To ask the question, The Grey Martíne, a member of the Mistho team, the importance of the stability of the institutions to make the economic and social development of our organizations possible." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u33	For a few months now, our economic system has been showing its bitterest face: the fall in GDP, ERTE, unemployment, closed shops, economic sectors in disintegration, the lack of a job perspective for our young people... One of the most significant elements that can be provided from policy as a guarantee of an efficient fight against this crisis is institutional stability. The institutions have an obligation to transfer the certainty to the markets and to the entire Spanish society. That is why I am sending you the following question, Mr Lehendakari: Do you think that the questioning of the institutions favours the investment and economic development of our Autonomous Community? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u34	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, you say in the question that the institutions have an obligation to transfer the necessary certainty to the markets and investors and to provide legal certainty to those who contribute their economic resources to carry out initiatives that generate employment. I fully share that, Mrs Martínez. And these eight years we have invested and achieved institutional stability in Euskadi, not only in the Basque Government, but also in the outlaws and in the municipalities. We've done it in a minority and we're going to keep it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u37	Mr Urkullu, when we talk about institutions, we talk about it a little bit more broadly. You are a necessary accomplice to the contempt of the institutions in Spain. It has made this clear by protesting against the Constitutional Court for the disqualification of Quim Torra. His words leave no room for doubt, and I will quote textually: "there is a clear disproportion between maintaining a non-infringing claim banner against any human right and the final result, the president's disqualification." Some naive can say that the rights that Quim Torra violates are of no importance. It only undermined the transparency, objectivity of the electoral process and the principle of equality, in short, minutiae. You think that in the eyes of the multinationals, on which our economy depends so much, there is a lack of rigour, a lack of commitment and a lack of seriousness, and you, Mr Lehendakari, also questioned the intensity of the sentence as if you enjoyed a halo of legitimacy that places you above the highest institutions of the state. However, the matter does not remain there, you and your party are accomplices, as I said before, because they exercise fundamental support in the Government of Spain by maintaining two parties, PSOE and Podemos, which by their actions, to the facts I refer, far from providing stability to the institutions, seek to destroy the fundamental pillars of our nation: justice and monarchy. We have seen his irresponsible statements regarding the justice of our country, but it is that with regard to the monarchy we have also seen the furious attacks of the vice president second Pablo Iglesias and the minister of consumption, Alberto Garzón. We have even seen since the presidency of the government prevent his majesty the King from going to the delivery of offices to the new promotion of the Judicial School based in Barcelona. Is the argument of cohabitation reason enough? Even in the worst times of ETA we have seen the King in the Basque Country. In Vox we are clear that coexistence is not the reason, it is just an excuse, because its goal is to encircle the Crown. We have not seen you, Mr Urkullu, condemn these unfortunate attacks on the Crown. And it is that the CEO himself has expressed his concern about the attacks on the Crown because of the undeniable lack of stability that they generate, quite the contrary to what our poor economy needs. And, finally, does stability promote the maintenance of a government, that of Pedro Sánchez, which deals with Bildu at night and alleviates the modification of labour reform? You keep this government, you're partly responsible. In conclusion, the COVID-19 has boosted any hint of stability and certainty in our society, but it remains clear to everyone: you and your partners in Madrid do nothing to recover it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u38	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martinez, I am responsible, I am responsible and I ratify everything I have said. Look, let's focus on Euskadi. Euskadi is now a guarantee of institutional stability. This has been highlighted, for example, by the success of the two Euskadi sustainable bond issues on the international financial market, and also by the crediting of credit rating agencies, for example. I remind you that in February of this year – and I read literally – the Financial Times The question you are asking, Mrs Martínez, should you answer it yourself, because it is your party that is constantly questioning the democratic institutions of Basque self-government, the legal, institutional and political tools we have and that are actually the ones that are promoting both investment and economic development in the Basque Country. You, Mrs Martínez, do not hide your longing for pre-democratic systems, do not believe in Basque self-government, let alone in our unique institutions, do not believe in the Statute of Gernika, the educational system, the official status of Basque, the Economic Concert, the Ertzaintza or the Basque model of social protection, and the example is your own intervention here today: it has referred to the politics of the Spanish State, not to Basque politics or Basque institutions. You do not hesitate to blame others for what you actually pursue, which is nothing but institutional instability. Everything can be improved, no doubt, but the best proof that the institutions are working is that you are taking part in this Parliament and defending your postulates here, when you are actually opposed to this Parliament and do not care about this Parliament and what it represents. I believe, however, that your presence and your action in this Parliament will have the opposite effect to what you want. It will help to enhance our own institutions, it will help us to strengthen our own self-government, our culture, our language, our public services, and it will encourage us to persevere in what we have always done: to improve the living conditions and well-being of all the people we live in in Euskadi, let us focus on Euskadi. You mentioned the monarchy and I will not avoid the reference, Mrs Martínez. I only ask you to review what I said at the Gernika House of Junctions on 5 September, on the occasion of my oath as lehendakari, of everything I said at the House of Junctions on 5 September. From there, I suggest that you also consider the opportunity to republish the monarchy, which I have also publicly raised, for greater transparency, openness, modernization and social legitimacy of the institution itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Seventh point on the theme list: "Interregation, The Forest, by the House of Houses, by the Congress of the EH Union, of the President, of the removal of the field of equality and of the Presidency of the Union." Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u41	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Good morning to the feminist members. The organization of the new government has caused an extreme uneasiness, the President Urcullu, in the Election. 1988, from the origin of the Empire, it has been placed at the President's head in accordance with the point of line and centrality. And impatience is also very deep and circumscribed. So, for the first time, I'll make several accusations that have been issued all these days. The Jareags and the Itzian Fernández, the first directors and secretarys of the Emenation, in succession said that the performance of the Women in our country is the institutional result of the struggle in our own country. It has been a character characteristic of being an autonomous organization attached to the presidency. And besides, this has been carried in other countries and autonomys as a model to follow. You've made so wide a lot of it yourself. Maria Silvestr and Arnancha Elizondo, a director and secretary of the gift, have declared that the new position would be degradation. They have remarked, too, that in the evaluation of the equality of other autonomys, the position of the offering has been mentioned as an example. And the importance of organic positions is always mentioned. They ask a question, and I want to put it here too, Mr. Urkullu, why shouldn't there be any discussions? The law of 1988 expressly states that the creation is produced as an independent institution annexed to the preponderance of the President. So we can say that the decision you made has been legally made. Nekane Lauzirikak ere Deian idatzi zuen honako hau: "In a country of footballers, the evolution of the country is measured by the triumphs of the selection. To say that Emakunde descends the second is understood the first. In a new Basque government, it moves from an autonomous entity in Lehendakaritza, across all the councils, to belonging to a new council, a tailor's drawer somewhat Frankenstein, where, with the word 'equality' of attachment, it will share with justice and social policies a conglomerate variopinto". And he goes on to say: "When Emakunde was created in 1988, our situation was worse than the current one. We evolved. But this year 30 women killed by their partners or exes have already officially died in the State; although others speak of 66. In Euskadi, as of July, 210 sexual freedom attacks had been recorded. The stop is the apple that visits us with the COVID-19 hook, and when reviewing the lists of stops, we would better say stops And it ends: "Now inform that it will not change Emakunde's autonomy in terms of its policies of transversal equality, because the lehendakari will continue to preside over it. If so, it is still more unnecessary and difficult to understand what for this change with a second descent." The National Feminist of the Constitutional Law has made his decision irregular. And he sent it to you through a letter. And they say that they have not found any of the reasons given them to convince them. The 70 feminists of the feminis movement have requested that the Women's World March, the Gure Feminist, Oneka, Fórum María de Maeztu, Madame Placa, the Feminis Group... There are also 60 techniques of equality working in Euscal Autonomy in Erria, and there are still workers of the results. These, especially, were angry at being known by means of means of communication, that the President would be transferred to the new department. The feminis members of the feminis movement and the social techniques have remembered in 1995, in Beijing, in the world of women. It was decided that the organs of equality ought to be placed in the presidency of governments, because it gives it a centrality and indirectness. The Landalides himself, the director of the present gift, has said, in the only public conference he has made, that it is to be seen how new structures will produce them in the niceties of the organization, and that he expects them to follow the current course. Emakunderen Aholku Batzordeak was a gogor kritikatu bear from the erabakia. They say it's a return to welfareism more than 40 years ago and they call for dialogue. Equality policy must be reflected in facts and not in promises or requests for confidence, according to them. "You ask for votes of confidence, but do not conflict with anyone or dialogue about these decisions. You call people who are publicly emerging from prejudice, those who have years of institutional and academic, militant and professional work in equality policies. Aren't you the prejudiced ones against criticism?". We want to know why. Why, from where and where you thought it might be a good idea to get out of the Empire as President. You said, even today, that you've opened the door to get us a contribution in so many other matters. I guess you already had what you heard today in your hands. Do you intend to rethink the decision, President Urkullu? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. In answer, President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Houseboy, I heard it, I read it, and I thought a lot. I've been thinking a lot about it all over the last time. I've been thinking a lot since the election. In the present context, when we speak of equality, we have to emphasise co-worker or neighbourhood: what is internal, what belongs to the institutions, and to the whole society. Coordination, continuity and cooperation are indispensable to promote structure changes. He's working on that Eukong line and he takes the need for cooperation in his reorganizations. That was the reason for my decision. First of all, you say that the Empire has been removed by the President. As a matter of fact, she keeps her character, structure, budget, and the same orgasm. Your relationship with the President will be the same, and I will continue to be head of the Election Council as I have been. Secondly, you mentioned the law of generation. The decision I've made is based on the law of the 7/1981 government, in his 8c article. The law-protected decision. It would be good to look at our history and see that it has been so in other cases. Thirdly, by this decision, you say that equality and the principle of equality lose regularity. It is on the contrary, by this decision, that the population of equality will win a line of line, and equality will win a degree of importance. Fourthly, you say that equality will now be an essential area, and that it will be observed with regard to social matters. It won't be like that. It will naturally be the object of the President's entire government and of our program to continue in equality. The object of the whole government is, I mean. In order to increase the positive influence over equality, we need co-ordination and co-ordinate co-ordination in fun, as well as other organizations and social agents. With the introduction of the principle of equality, of justice, and of social society, the intersecrational view is strengthened in the work of equality, in the opposite of the profundity of the genus, and in the precedent of violence against women. Inequality of women and men is a structural inequality affecting all spheres of society, and consequently the gender perspective must be present in all policies and decisions, including in addressing other inequalities. This is a maxim that has so far followed equality policies in Euskadi and that we are going to maintain and strengthen. Gender equality policies are cross-cutting, non-sectoral policies. We are not talking about a collective, but more than half the population. In fact, all of it because these policies affect society as a whole. My objective, our objective, is to strengthen action for the equality of women and men, giving new impetus to cross-cutting across the Government. It is, at the same time, to promote coordination in the response to all inequalities directly related to human rights and to give new impetus to progress towards a more egalitarian and just society, which puts life at the centre and in which all people have the same opportunities to develop their life projects. Putting life at the centre, as a fundamental pillar of building society and promoting equal opportunities for the development of life projects of all people, and of women in particular, implies, among other things: One: combating all forms of discrimination, reducing the wage gap, extending social protection in times of crisis. Two: to promote policies of responsible reconciliation of personal, family and work life. Three: gender mainstreaming in all these aspects. The aim of the new Equality Department is to strengthen equality policies for women and men, promoting the coordination of all policies and promoting cross-cutting in all government actions. We have a higher sense than the concept of equality. The aim is to enhance a cross-cutting approach to human rights and equality in all public policies, putting women's and men's equality at the forefront, promoting a specific policy from a leading and cross-cutting autonomous body in this area and whose governing body presides over the lehendakari. For the first time, equality is placed at the centre of a department that integrates teams with competencies and careers in human rights, justice, co-responsible reconciliation, care, diversity, social policies and the fight against violence against women. We set up a new department with equality competences. And we preserve Emakunde's action as an autonomous organism linked to Lehendakaritza. The aim is to add to strengthen equality policies for women and men and equality policies in general. With regard to the series of results, supported by the model of its autonomous structure and organization, it does not alter the meaning or content of the action of the results. This change of arrangement in the work of the work strengthens the possibility of working on essential matters for our government from the very beginning of the law. We'll make these commitments to our program. One: We will examine the consent of the law in order to destroy violence against women and to acquire equality. Two: We will promote the social alliance against equality and violence to women. Three: we will be engaged to the pay-roll, in an integrated manner, so that women may have an economical autonomy in their lives and reduce the feminization of poverty. Four: We'll encourage a social pact in support of care. Five: II. For the educational system. Collaboration Plan on the way of equality and good bargaining. Six, we're going to place a single window system on files on which are the victims of violence and personal attention. Seven, co-operative funding programs will be raised to make the organizational and diagnostics encouraged from the results. Apart from the maintenance of the autonomy of the results and the connection of the presidency, we shall, by the organ of government, promote new engagements and measures, to promote visibility, alliance, co-ordination, and co-workerity. The whole Eusko's goal is to make these commitments rich, and they're going to be very close to the app and the evaluation of the results. That responsibility will remain in the hands of the gift and its directorship Council. His director will remain in the hands of the Council, and the president will remain in charge of this council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u45	Okay. In my first speech, you say I have, but I have brought here the words of so many experts, and the words of persons from different institutions of feminis movement. I have not given my opinion in the first words. It seems as if you're annoyed that people put their fear, impatience, anger, misunderstood sitting on the table. You've shown us what's going to be the art lines we've read on the government program for the next four years. I'm not here today to talk about your four-year plans. I only came to speak of the transition and direction of the results and of the principle of equality. Another time, if you like, and I'd like to interact you with politics. But today I've come to talk about the results and their organic position. And you tell us that the Empire will continue to focus on the President, but at the same time, a new department is created. In the first press conference that this new department does, it says the Election will be inside itself. Can you explain things to us so that we're not going to be lit, and you're telling us exactly where things are in your amateur institution? Because you're saying one thing, but in the press conferences there's another. So we would be grateful for this explanation and that transparency. You're always talking about the powers of trust. And now you've even talked about working and sharing decisions. Look, I'll tell you: happily, at the present day, the Election is not of the Government; it is an institution which the people have made. And people are very, very, very worried about the change you've made. And here's the concern. And to-day, really, and when we talked a lot, we thought we might at last find a reform, you hear, and when the others have expressed their opposition, we might perhaps find a step back in the discussion of today. We found the opposite: reaffirmation We really thought we'd find another attitude. It's true we've been following different conversations these days. And, as I said, when you called them "prejuiceosa," all the people who were doing these words, El Correo. All these days we've been following the conferences that have been in front of this transfer of yours. No one has ever gone out to defend you out of the government. No one has joined him: no member of feministic motion, no member of feminist institutions. I think you can prove that you can, and also that you can be able to take different positions. And we wanted this statement to be the way we were going to do it today, and even in that motion we're going to introduce, there'll still be a little time. And we really invite you to rethink the retrogression of the retrogression that the equality police will endure
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Houseboy, I said what you said, in the text of the interpelation, she signed it because you said it. So I say you did. I also invite you to read what I say, when there's a transcript, and the meaning of what I say. "An angry answer"? This is the usual refrain. It's the usual refrain, as if it were answered angrily. It's a tone, after all, worth the subject. I can do a poem reading too, to express sweetness in tone, but I think I have to take it seriously. And that's what I've been trying to do, Mrs. Houseowner. Look, I respect them, I respect them, I thank you, and consider the feminist movements and the opinions which some societies and professionals have published. But I also invite you to think that it's an institution called "Egree." I have chosen a new organizational design from my responsibility as president, which will help and expand politics towards equality. If I have given the care of equality, of human rights, and of the beauties of multiplicity, I have endeavoured first to strengthen them. It doesn't mean that we're retreating from the principle of equality, we want to strengthen them by their peculiarities and autonomy. That's our goal and our will. On the other hand, the progress or delay of a field is not measured by being in the structure of a division or of another. To retain the principle of equality, justice, and the Department of Police, does not affect the weight of government. Nor to his human resources, to his resources, to the intermediate materials, to his budgets, or to his booking of rules. On the contrary, they will all be strengthened in this law. The autonomy of Emakunde, the presidency of his governing body by the lehendakari, as I preside other councils, as I preside other councils, councils held in Lehendakaritza. Emakunde maintains its headquarters, structure, own budget and organizational chart. The aim is to promote measures to strengthen its action as a benchmark in the field of equality for the entire Basque Government and institutions. And this decision implies the incardination of Emakunde in a whole conception of equality, in a whole conception of equality. This is the claim of Emakunde's incorporation into a department that has as its mission equality with capitals. It is committed to the coordination and cross-cutting of equality policies within the Government and in the relationship with social institutions and actors. Thus, Emakunde maintains his participation in the Interinstitutional Commission for Equality of Women and Men, in the Interdepartmental Commission for Equality, in the Advisory Commission for Non-Sexist Advertising-Begira, in the Follow-up Commission for the Interinstitutional Agreement for the Improvement of the Care of Women Victims of Domestic Abuse and Sexual Assault. The Beijing Conference has been mentioned. With the creation of the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, we implement its strategic objective H.1, which states: "To ensure that the responsibility for issues related to the advancement of women falls within the highest areas of government as possible". It doesn't say "in Lehendakaritza". Beijing doesn't say "in Lehendakaritza". "In many cases," he says, "this task could be carried out by a cabinet ministry." This is what Beijing says. This is the reality now in the Basque Government. On the contrary, it draws attention to the fact that the case of Navarra is not mentioned. There the Institute for Equality was attached to the Department of Citizens and Institutional Relations, when in 2015 the new government was formed, of which EH Bildu and Podemos were part. There was no presidency, no equality department, but no critical voices were heard. In any case, I reiterate the strong commitment of the entire Government to equality. It has been and will continue to be a priority for the Lehendakari and the entire Government, because it has undoubtedly been and will continue to be a priority for the whole of Basque society, to which this Government intends to represent, the whole of Basque society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interpology, made by the members of the CORA CENTERO CORRIO, to the President of the United States, on the route of the funds of Europe as a people." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u49	Good morning, everyone. President Urkullu, good morning. Today, we want to talk to you about the European funds. Apparently, you'll have to answer me. Good morning. Technically, it's because you're managing them, but here's a substantial political discussion, and that's why my interpelrations you. The world-level, economy, and life itself have been introduced into an unknown theory. There's been a slight breakdown in 2008 and the previous crisis. The problems that have been accumulated earlier have exploded with the COVID, and we're looking at a kind of economic development that scares us. The situation is so serious that it is difficult even to anticipate it. In April, you announced that the downfall of the unproduced in 2020 would be 3,6, later 8,7, and the last is less than 10%. And in the end, one knows, it's been 'tries that have been half corrupt'. In cash, we expect a 20% down. We're face to face with a massive recovery. The hard rise of the degradation, the same public services in a critical situation, most of the sectors are beaten, and the end of the sanitary emergency is not yet to be seen. It's extremely dangerous at the moment when the administration doesn't have enough muscle. It's difficult times, and there's worry about people, social and economic agents, political groups, all the institutional levels. We are, in our opinion, face to face with a popular challenge. We are exposed to a state which demands the strength, the skill, the creative, and the united impulse of our country. And the multiple challenges we had before, such as climate's, have not disappeared. In this context, Europe has taken extraordinary measures. In May, the board made a proposal, putting it into some kind of a preventive policy, and in July the Council made an agreement about the tools that were to be started, in order to finance them, in terms of conditions, and in proportion to each of them. The most interesting thing because it's new and different, unusual and extraordinary, is the root of the next generation. EUR 75 billion, of which EUR 310,000 will be transfers that must not be returned, or rather that will be paid in solidarity among all people in Europe for 30 years. The Spanish state has nearly EUR 60 billion earmarked for specific projects and programmes, in principle, without fixed amounts per territory. "It will be the train that will pass once," says Europe. A silver bullet in some way to get out of the crisis, but not in any direction: Through the ecological and technological transition to challenge the climate as the primary aim of decorbonization. It's a debt to the next generation next next, and we have to use it so as not to spoil the future of the next generation, at least in theory. We are standing in front of an element which can mark the difference if it is properly used. A new element, this yes, not the umpteenth refrain that was presented on Tuesday, in our opinion, looking for headlines where there is only a hairstyle of budgets, this time for the whole legislature, packaged now as a reactivation plan. In this crucial decade of the new European funds, it should be the first grades of a transformation. That's why we're saying it's important to do something that's not done. I mean, here's a strategic discussion about the targets and direction of these funds. In May, the Basque Country was published by the first deliberations of the European funds. We emphasized the importance of the funds by the need to act as a people, by the ability to act as a people, by the need to make a combination of parties, social and economic operatings. In May. And Maddalen sketched some of the first ideas to use these funds on the plan he had given us, Urkullu. It's been over four months and we don't even know if you've read them yet, Mr. Urkullu. We believe that whoever proclaims the neighbourhood ought to make a call for the neighbourhood, because the neighbourhood has not been decided by me and you have accepted it, and if you can complain little. First we need consistently here and then we think we need to hit the right doors. And we have kept our commitment to join in this process, and we keep it from May to today. And in this discussion we have some criteria. We wish to encourage the public and direct management of the substance, as far as possible, that money will be paid among all. And we defend it that benefits should be affected in public and public. And we want to focus on starting with high-quality employment. And we want to introduce a project that can reach all the institutional levels. Because this could be one of the most exclusive emergency investments for local councils in the next few years. And if private agents have a right to intervene in these funds, we wish to speak of conditions and the clear mechanism of the selection of projects. That is, if co-responsibility is requested, co-decision must be offered. These are our plans, but we also have some concerns. The first one goes around the interlocution. No mechanism is currently available to receive and defend political, social and economic agents. Bigarren kezka Madrilen dakkagu. Next Generation misses birzentralization yes. Europako beasts have come forth ez bezala, have statues eku dago ehunek ehunean. That is, our possible projects will be screened by Madrid and then screened by Europe. Hori, dudarik gabe, arazo bat yes. This gure is going to be missing beasts, so gogor beats. Eta Madrilek indura egingo du funtsen zati handi bat zuzenean kudeatzeko. Because it's very tempting to manage these funds as if they were a bag of candy. And here there are two paths, each walking separately, some kind of influencer. Some things may still be changed, it is clear, the conditions of Europe, for instance, but the process is in progress and the time is in progress. 21 April 2021: this is the first frontier which Europe has placed in the hands of the creditors. The state has moved some of the tabs, organized different tables, the bakers have a function, a private office is open to guide the private area. In Navarre, for example, public university has already cultivated the subject, and the means of assisting the corporations are open, and the office is open. And you, Mr. Urkullu, take your step where are those clear steps? We didn't see them. On August 12, you, almost two months ago, sent an initial report, an initial report, of projects to be financed. Agreed, with whom? Open, who? And, in addition, it was supposed to be released on August 25th. It hasn't been made public. That was said or it came out in the media, at least they'll contradict me. It is supposed to be made public on 25 August; it has not been made public until Euskal Herria Bildu has requested the listing of projects in this Parliament. And, of course, when we saw the listing, we understood why it has not been made public during these almost two months and why so many sectors have come to ask us to find out what is going on. I'll talk more about it later. But let me point out that the list that has been sent, to say something, is not to believe. Apart from being physically a birria, it is like not believing, for important things, because of the lack of a strategic perspective, because of the lack of a country's perspective, because of the null prospect of cohesion and because of the inexplicable absences of very broad sectors: academic sector, different industrial sectors, etc. We think there's too much of it in the game to repeat the usual mistakes. And we have a bad feeling this time that there is a practice which transcends the rhetoric of the people, which leads you to perform eternal works. And we can't allow you to manage this extraordinary opportunity without a wide conversation. We can't allow this process to meet without our word and proposal. And we can't accept that our councils have no means of introducing their plans of transformation. And we can't allow extensively interested sectors not to find a transparent window to reach these funds to guarantee the equality of opportunity. That's why we interact with you. What are you planning to choose all the interested parts to challenge these people?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u50	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mr. President, your word is yours. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u51	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. I'd like to thank you, Mr. Otero, really, about the funds or money that come from Europe to define so many Eucharistic projects. We are prepared to bring the information we have at every moment, to the legislature, and put it on the table. And I want to take advantage of your commitment and help. You said you'd help us, we're ready to take help. It's a new and important thing, as you said, and I'm sure we'll all get better results for Basques. That's the main goal. I agree with your reflections on the economy, and that our situation is grave and evil, and that the funds can be good enough to get out of this situation. But one thing is clear, it's okay to talk with everyone, but the answer, the project's response, the management is in the hands of the government. Before answering your question, allow me, Mr Otero, to clarify that the multiannual financial framework is not called Next Generation – I know you know it – because it is the budget for the next seven years. The 2014-2020 period is currently in force and in July this year the advance of the amounts to be settled for the period 2021-2027, amounting to more than EUR 1 trillion, was presented. In addition, due to the health crisis and its economic consequences, the European Union launches the Next Generation initiative, with an additional budget to the multiannual framework for the period 2020-2026 of EUR 75 billion. Focusing on Next Generation I want to emphasize, first of all, that this initiative represents a milestone. Indeed, in the history of the European Union, as this is the first time that there is a form of generation consisting in the sharing of debt between the states of the Union, unthinkable until recently, some of us have been claiming, myself over many years in the Congress of Deputies itself, that Europe must be courageous and an active part of the solution of global economic crises. He did not do so in the 2008 crisis. Now it seems they want to change course, and, by simplifying, one could say that they are starting to listen more to Keynes than to Hayden. We must, however, be cautious, because the process is still very incipient; let us hope that it will become concrete and consolidated. The productive structure of the states and their sectoral specialization has conditioned, and very much, the economic and social impact of the health crisis, as long as the measures of confinement and post-scalation descalation have affected unequally. Aware of this situation, last May the Basque Government forwarded to the Government of Spain and the European Commission a document called the Basque Vision for a European Union recovery plan The gravity of the moment required an ambitious response from the European Union and its members, understanding that it was facing the most important challenge since its founding. An intelligent and bold response that took into account the common European interest, which materialized months later with the announcement of the Next Generation initiative. An initiative that recalls the Marshall Plan and seeks to provide large-scale financial support to implement reforms and investments in member states. An initiative that, as you have commented, mobilizes 75 billion euros, of which 390,000 will be disbursed in transfers to the states and another 360 billion in loans through seven different programs, which will be well known to you, and therefore I will not repeat them here. The framework of recovery and resilience is – in the words of the president, Ursula von der Leyen – the core of Next Generation. And it is conceived as the fundamental tool to turn the immediate challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic into a long-term opportunity. Euskadi needs to be given an opportunity not only for immediate economic recovery, but also for long-term sustainable and inclusive growth that will bring about profound change. We are faced with a historic opportunity, or at least we want it to be, that we have a responsibility to take advantage of, both to demonstrate to Europe the collective benefits of shared debt-based financing, and to address with determination the necessary transformations that our country must undertake to ensure the future sustainability of its economic fabric. All this seeking local responses to challenges that are global and therefore can replicate elsewhere, if we are able to transform this crisis into a vector of prosperity. I trust that everyone, starting with this government and this Parliament, is up to this point. With regard to what we are doing in this context, our work has now focused on identifying interdepartmental and inter-agency public and public-private projects that can fit within the framework set out in the resilience and recovery mechanism. The lack of many responses that must be given in the State on the management of funds and the role of communities in this management has not prevented us from making progress in the realization of actions that could constitute a programme of recovery and resilience of Euskadi, Euskadi Next. For our part, we hope that our 2021 budgets will end up collecting the amount that corresponds to us with a clear criterion of additionality. From the Basque Government we will establish, as announced on Wednesday the lehendakari, a flexible organization capable of responding to the enormous multi-level challenge that takes into account all public administrations and agents and socio-economic actors. The recent decree on areas of the lehendakari was aware of the need for a certain specific organisation, when in a novel way it incorporates a new matter of responsibility in the Department of Economy and Finance with the content of following and managing the policy of European cohesion, planning and analysis of European funds for recovery and resilience. Our intention is, in short, to be able to send a block of preliminary drafts to the Government of Spain, because this is the way forward, as soon as possible, so that they can be taken into account within the appropriate time limits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u52	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u53	Help, comradeship. Evil. What we're saying is a frame is missing. A light frame to introduce and contribute to projects. No frames. And you say to me, "The project is incipient." I don't know how new it is. On 21 April, 70% of the funds that are earmarked for the Spanish State, more than €43 billion, were already said. So I don't know if we're in such an incipient process. And, in fact, we are not in such an incipient process, because, among other things, the European Union, after the Council's agreement, drew a communication in which it talked about calling for a broad political dialogue to be opened up to all the parties concerned. Where is this framework for political dialogue open? Orine art beasts gauza bat egin yes, beasts gauza bat egin yes. Korrika eta presaka – and you will correct me if I'm not right – was commissioned by Price Waterhouse Cooper, Asiar Atutxa's, to prepare everything to run a series of projects and to make a package so that it will be sent quickly to Madrid, which is what was sent to it on August 12. You'll tell me if this isn't true. With no consideration to the litigations, regardless of the council, regardless of the university, regardless of almost total economic sector. And seeing the entire list, it's easy to see who's been talking to. He talked to Mrs. Tapia. Maybe we could do it with Rementeria. With the Iberdron, Petron. After that, he's spoken to very few agents. And I didn't want to put too much in it, but it must be said that 10, eleven billion euros have been made, and half of that is a high-speed train, plus Iberdol, plus Petror's projects. I mean, new tools, but the style sounds pretty old, pretty old. And there are things that attract a lot of attention. Petronor's famous hydrogen project. Petronor has announced two phases of investment: one with 67 million and one with 76 million investment. A total of 143. How much is Petronor assigned for hydrogen in this plan? 330. Man, all right, friends have to be taken care of, but I don't know if this makes much sense, does it? Attention deitzen have gehiago gauza. I was going to talk about the passion according to San Juan, but I'm going to talk about the ecological transition according to the PNV. I want to understand that the PSOE had nothing to do with this. What enters into the chapter of ecological transition for the PNV, according to these plans presented: GuggenheimUrdaibai, 140 million; Supersur, 187; underground passage of the track, 403; Lemoiz farm, 105; "various" industrial soil, 850; Zabalgarri, 25; TAV, TAV and more TAV, 2.7 billion euros. It would be a good epitaph for this government: "here TAV and then glory". Well, it's a draft. It is good that contributions can be made, it is good that it will change, but, indeed, it is a whole Freudian lapsus of a developmentist dream of another era, to see how this could happen all European filters. That's right, Tuesday on Urkullu radio says "that's an initial shot, and there are already more projects on the table." What we don't know is where the table is. What table are those projects on? There is something else, I think, to highlight – and I do not say it for us anymore, that we are impenitent complainers of everything the government does, I also say it for the rest of the people on the bench – the perspective of projects on territorial cohesion. I've done a project report before, if they've all been fixed, they're in Bizkaia. We came here to talk about overcoming the autonomous perspective and talking about the country's perspective, but it's that you've overcome it, but on the other hand, right? We find ourselves, as the Catalans would say, with GNP, not the PNV, but the GNP, which does not "be" Basques. And I explain myself: I took the trouble of making this little picture-summary of where the leaders of these projects are. This is what the Basque Government leads, number of projects, this is the Bizkaia, the State, Europe, Iberdrola, Gipuzkoa and Araba. Suso, take note: Araba Zero projects leads this whole plan. I think we should be a little careful to talk about territorial balance. Well, this is what we have. This is the distribution of tractor plans. I don't know if it's for Aitor to defend them in Madrid, with a little please. But, in short, what we require after this very rapid mediumanalisis joins in three accounts. One: Set a light path page, a frame of discussion about the use of the funds, not an empty EAJ representative, and a mechanism of transparency, a window where administration and corporations can contribute and get technical support.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u54	Thank you, Mr. Otero, your time is up. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u55	You'll have a light frame, Mr. Otero. We'll have a light frame and a possibility to determine things. A lot of earlier projects, as you said, must still be planned, identified, etc. That's clear. These projects have to be worked because they're important projects and there's a lot of money in the meantime. As I was saying, the steps we are taking to develop Euskadi Next 2020-2026 are: First, the definition of the strategic approach and conceptual framework by the Department of Economics and Finance. It is a question of collecting in a vertebrate, coherent and cohesive manner the actions planned until 2023 and implemented until 2026, which are aligned with the criteria established in the European Union in its commitment to the recovery in thematic terms, of contents, deadlines, milestones, indicators of follow-up. That's gotta work. Secondly, the collection of information on the projects from the guide presented by the committee on 17 September. They must be desirable projects that respond to present and future, viable needs that are aligned with the areas marked by Europe, that have sufficient resources for their launch and that are sustainable in the future, technically feasible and within execution times required by Europe and measurable with impact indicators. We are also going to carry out a technical analysis of the suitability of the projects submitted. And the final decision of the projects to be incorporated in the plan is the Governing Council, following the approval of the interdepartmental commission in which the investment departments, the Department of Economy and Finance and the Lehendakaritza itself participate. To date, we know that projects must respond to four general objectives: to promote economic and social cohesion in the territory of the European Union; to strengthen economic and social resilience by seeking an agile, fair, sustainable and inclusive response capacity that reduces the vulnerability of health systems and ensures critical supply chains; to mitigate the economic and social impact of the crisis, seeking coherence in the response as a whole; to support green transitions, 37% of the plan must go to this goal, and digitally, 20% must go to this goal as well; and to show consistency with the European approaches taken in the European Green Deal and in the Shaping Europe's Digital Future, as well as the State approaches taken in their respective national energy and climate plans. As you also know, there are ten levers or themes that need to be taken into account: increasing renewable energy; increasing electric mobility; rehabilitation and energy efficiency; 5G; digitisation of administration, industry and SMEs; improvement of cloud services; big data The information from the European Union tells us about seven emblematic areas which are very much related to the ten levers that I have just pointed out to you. I will not hide from you, Mr Otero, that the challenge is complex, and for the moment with few certainties, which, however, does not prevent us from moving forward without pause. In fact, we are already working with ambition, and also with country ambition, do not hesitate. We are also supported by the management of the operational programmes, the ERDF and the Social Fund, of employment, with which there will apparently be synergies to take advantage, also from the issuance during the last three years of the sustainable bonds within the framework of the debt policy, and which position us already in areas related to resilience and in the energy-climate and digital transitions, as well as the agile development of the financial sustainable investments, which we have had the opportunity to develop as a result of the surpluses of the public accounts of the years 2018 and 2019. It is a challenge, I insist, that we from the Government face a great deal of responsibility and, I insist, also in a collaborative spirit. And, of course, as I told you before, it would be very important to have your most valuable cooperation, as well as that of those present who so desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u56	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, on the grounds of hiring Madame Cristina Urire as a advisor, a member of the United States, a member of the United States, a member of the United States, a member of the United States, José Manuel Gil Vegas Eusculara, a member of the Ciudadans." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari. Doña Cristina Uriarte has been holding the position of Education Advisor of the Basque Government for eight years, eight years in which we have found prolonged strikes of concerted education, reports of associations of children with special needs, improvisation, bandages and promises not fulfilled in the crisis of the COVID and in the planning of the new academic year, which have resulted in a number of closed classrooms, to date, much higher than the national average. In addition to a level of quality of teaching, PISA results, with worse reader understanding than the rest of Spain, etc. I believe that with these credentials we can affirm that the level of performance of Ms. Cristina Uriarte as Education Advisor has been deficient. In educational terms, we would say that it deserves a clear suspension. And we assume that the government and the lehendakari share this view because they have not counted on it for their new stage of government. However, we are surprised that she is compensated for the appointment as an advisor to Lehendakaritza with the level of vice-advisor. Before which, we ask ourselves, we ask you what are the real reasons, what is the process, what are the criteria by which the lehendakari has considered that dona Cristina Uriarte is the most suitable person to occupy this position.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u58	Thank you, Mr. Gil. In answer, President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Gil, I am not going to go into what are considerations or assessments that can be made of what has been a period of eight years at the head of the Department of Education and what may result in a consideration or evaluation of the Basque education system, because, in that sense, I will refer to what the report of the Euskadi School Council itself issued before yesterday, and I will focus on the question that you raised in your question. And the reasons I have considered and valued for appointing Cristina Uriarte as Commissioner for Science, Technology and Innovation are reasons for trust, merit and capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u60	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u61	Trust, merit and capacity. Trust, that's something like saying because we can and we want. Demonstrated merit and ability in execution during these years. The problem is that these kinds of decisions do not help to regain the confidence that citizens have in institutions and in the political class, which give the impression that jobs are distributed among the few and that they look the same, and that these things are done without blushing. In the end, the conclusion I draw from his answer is that there are no criteria or, at least, there are no objective criteria and that there is no clear process by which we may find other people more capable. Mr Lehendakari, I believe that these things, for the good of all, must be explained very well, I think it is good for everyone, also for the Basque Government, for the institutions and also for the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u62	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Gil, because we can and we want, no, under no circumstances. You make the need for criteria and a clear explanation. I hope I can explain myself sufficiently and convincingly. Reasons of trust. Cristina Uriarte has worked closely with me as an Education Advisor to the Basque Government since 15 December 2012, and I have had the opportunity to check her work capacity and her personal and professional commitment. Dedication and shared responsibility have generated a high degree of trust in your work and your person, and I think that trust is a fundamental reason for forming a work team. Reasons for merit. Cristina Uriarte has a long experience in the field of training and management at the university and in the public administration. He has been a member of the Basque Council for Science, Technology and Innovation, knows the evolution and implementation of R & D policy developed in this country in the last decade. In addition to her extensive curriculum, she would highlight the following considerations: PhD in Chemical Sciences accredited as a professor, vice-rector of the Gipuzkoa Campus of the University of the Basque Country, member of the Board of Directors of BioDonostia, among others. Reasons for capacity. Ability to direct the scientific policy of this country and basic university research, to promote the University-Company Strategy, and to develop the strategic plan of the Basque university system, which she has been assigned as adviser in her mandate. Ability to coordinate and lead Euskadi's research centres of excellence. Ability to align scientific policy and guide university research groups in the smart specialization strategy RIS3 Euskadi. Ability to boost the uptake of internationally renowned talent and researchers at the head of Ikerbasque, a responsibility that lies with her, to advance the STEAM strategy, especially in the area of young women. Mr Gil, with reference to what you have also said with regard to the relegation to the head of the Department of Education. Look, every stage requires that people on a team adapt to changing circumstances. Cristina Uriarte faithfully and adequately fulfilled her responsibility to the head of the Department of Education in very difficult circumstances, and I recognize it and value it. And now the time has come to push forward this country's research and development strategy in the 2020-2030 horizon. It's a priority. And we have committed a growing investment with an annual increase of 6% in public budgets, and I have considered that Cristina Uriarte is the right person to coordinate this strategy and to develop the functions that it has as a commissioner for science, technology and innovation, on the basis of capacity, merit and trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interfection, Asia Martíne, Member of the Mistocese Committee of Misto to the First Vice President and Security Chief, on September 12th of the Bilbo Moyua Square as a terrorist. " Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u65	Good morning, everyone. Today I come to move here a concern that many Basque families have brought to me. On 12 September, a group of 60 people were allowed to spend the night at Don Federico Moyua Square in Bilbao; they were aiming to pay tribute to a terrorist who had committed suicide days ago. The Basque Country and Navarra are scenes of numerous public acts of cult of terrorism. For Vox these actions involve three dramatic consequences that worry us: it poses a danger to the new generations that terrorists are raised to the category of heroes; with such acts of indignity it is impossible to build a democratic society; a false narrative is justified, since there were never two sides, ETA murdered, kidnapped and extortioned, and the rest of Spanish citizens suffered the consequences. During the year 2020, 166 acts of exaltation of terrorism as a whole were committed: 14 tributes to ETA members, three days of struggle, a popular feast of homage, 73 paintings and banners, 57 demonstrations in favor of the murder of citizens, murderers of men, women and children, kidnappers and robbers being amnestyed for belonging to ETA, 18 acts of different nature. In 2019 there were 110; in 2018, 198; in 2017, 66. But a total of 166 took place this year. They have sown ignominy throughout the entire Basque geography. They have humiliated the victims and continued to sow hatred by trying to justify the violence exerted by ETA over 50 years. I'll give you some examples. 29 September 2020: Hernani, Gipuzkoa. Reception to Marta Igarriz. More than a hundred people in Hernani received at the age of Marta Igarriz, the attendees of the reception made him a hall of honor, which Igarriz crossed while applauded and cheered. 27 September 2020: several localities of Gipuzkoa celebrate Gudari Eguna Day. The Abertzale left celebrates the day of Gudari Eguna every 27 September. The date chosen? The anniversary of the shooting of two floors: Juan Paredes and Angel Otaegi. We can go on. 29 September 2020: Beasain, Gipuzkoa. Threatening paints against an ertzaine. They appear painted in a place in Beasain where an agent of the Ertzaintza usually comes. In the painting appears the name of the agent next to the word "zipaio", the name by which ETA began to disparately qualify Ertzaintza in the mid-1980s. 22 September 2020: Hernani, Gipuzkoa. Reception to Oihane Bakedano. Hundreds of people, including children, gather in the Gipuzcoano municipality of Hernani to receive Oihane Bakedano. He was made a hall of honor that he crossed while receiving applause from the assistants. 16 September 2020: Bilbao, Bizkaia. Ibon Gogeaskoetxea. More than a hundred people receive this age in Bilbao. The reception featured fireworks dedicated to the terrorist and the attendees paid him a tribute, making him a hall of honor and applauding him in his footsteps. 14 September 2020: Bilbao, Bizkaia. Demonstration in favor of amnesty for prisoners of age. Following the hunger strike started by the age of Iñaki Bilbao, a dozen people marched in Bilbao to ask for the amnesty of all ETA prisoners. September 11, 2020, Alsasua, Navarre. Signs with the face of Igor González and request amnesty for ETA prisoners. A sign appears in the Navarro municipality of Alsasua with the face of the Igor González era. And lastly – I have only shown the last actions that have been held in this last quarter – the tribute to the terrorists held on 12 September in the Square Moyúa of Bilbao. There's a concentration in memory of dead ages. A hundred people gather in front of the Government Delegation in Bilbao. Attendees wore large posters with faces of different ETA terrorists already deceased. On the facade of the delegation are projected slogans of the left abertzale, while different ages died were remembered with applause of the assistants. The event, organized by Sortu and attended by his leader, Arkaitz Rodriguez, also featured the presence of David Pla, one of the last heads of ETA. For this reason, and with the utmost respect, I am pleased to address this question to the first Vice-President and Security Adviser, Josu Erkoreka. What are the purposes of your government, in relation to the celebration of tributes to members of the terrorist band ETA, which have generated terror throughout Spanish geography, killing, kidnapping and extortion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u66	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. To answer, Mr. Erkorez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, as you will probably imagine, the question you raise in this question to which I am replying at this time is not at all unprecedented in this House; it has been raised on numerous occasions before. And I do not think I exaggerate if I say that it has been practically in all the formats in which it is possible to present an initiative in this House in accordance with its Rules of Procedure: as a written question, as an oral question, as a non-law proposal, even as an inquiry. For it is certainly not a matter that, having often been discussed in the remote past, has not been discussed in recent times. Because, look, if you look at the proceedings papers of the last parliamentary term, you will be able to see that tomorrow it will be exactly a year, on October 3, 2019, since an important debate was held here in plenary on this same issue, around a non-legislative proposal put forward by a parliamentary group, which resulted in a compromise amendment, which also had very broad support from the House. All groups voted in favour, except one, which did not vote against, but abstained. There were cross-representations, there were opinions found, but I want to say that the issue is being discussed frequently. And it has still been in very recent times, at the end of the last legislature. I remind you that we are at the dawn of the twelfth. And precisely because it is a matter that has been quite debated in the House, I believe that the positions of the different parliamentary groups are quite deflated on the issue, but above all I would like to stress that, beyond the parliamentary groups, which can legitimately change their views, the position of the Government itself in this matter is very clear and consolidated. That is why my answer today to the question you put cannot differ too much from what exactly a year ago the adviser who preceded me in the responsibility of the Department of Safety and Security offered me to a question that is very similar, almost identical to what you are asking today. She said, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, at that time, I insist, a year ago, on October 3, 2019: "The Ertzaintza acts in compliance with the law and judicial mandates in this respect". This is the criterion that has been followed by the Department of Security in the past legislature, and you ask me about the purpose of the Department of Security in relation to the legislature that we have just begun: it cannot otherwise be the criterion that will guide the performance of this Department in the beginning legislature. And you will ask yourself: and what is the legality in this matter and what is the content of the rulings of the judges and courts that have occasion to issue decisions in relation to this matter in recent times? Well, the acts to which you refer are of very different texture and completely different developments. You have made an enumeration, and from that enumeration you could perfectly collegiate that your development is completely different and have enormously heterogeneous natures, but they all incardinate, without any doubt, in the right of assembly, in the field of the right of assembly. A constitutional right, closely linked to freedom of expression, both fundamental rights contained not in any part of the Constitution, but in the section of the Constitution which enjoys greater protection: the first section of Chapter II of Title I, which contains the fundamental rights and public freedoms which are subject to constitutional protection, and which enjoys special protection by the constitutional text itself. And it cannot be otherwise, because, as these rights are contained in the constitutional text, it is a drafting, it is a conception that is practically reproduced in the constitutions of all democratic states and in the international declarations of all bodies that have made proclamations or have approved official documents linked to fundamental rights and public freedoms. Well, these constitutional rights, set out in articles 20 and 21 of the Constitution – in the 21st, the right of assembly, and in the 20th, the freedom of expression – are closely intertwined. That is what the European Court of Human Rights says, and that is also what the Constitutional Court says. They have a very clear, very simple regulation. On the right of assembly, the Constitution states: "The exercise of this right shall not require prior authorization". Immediately thereafter, he adds that at meetings or demonstrations taking place in places of public attendance, the governing authority shall be notified, which may prohibit them only in reasonable circumstances or where there are substantial grounds for disturbance of public order, with danger to persons and property." This fundamental right is developed extensively in an organic law of the year 83 and already has a plethora of jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court determining its content, limits and scope, and, moreover, with no less abundant jurisprudence of the courts, of the judicial organs of the litigation-administrative jurisdictional order which have already had the opportunity to rule, not in abstract form, but in concrete terms, on specific acts of the governmental authorities authorizing, denying or establishing limitations on the free exercise of these rights. A case law which, by summarising it in some way, can be said – I believe I do not lie or exaggerate when I make this statement – that is enormously guaranteeing with regard to the exercise of these rights, which is enormously contrary to the establishment of restrictions or limitations on the free exercise of these rights by citizens. It should be remembered, for example, that the organic law that develops the right of assembly has a precept in the third article, that the training to which you belong is well known, because it expressly protects the right of assembly and demonstration against those who want to prevent, disrupt or impair its exercise, and there are actions by the security services, logically, that often protect the exercise of that legitimate right by certain individuals and organizations, because this is mandated by law. Well, probably because the case law of the Constitutional Court and of the judicial bodies of the administrative and contentious jurisdictional order is very guaranteeing or very guaranteeing in relation to this issue, in recent years the practice of certain organizations and collectives to waive the obligation to communicate to the governmental authority or, in parallel with that communication to the governmental authority, to seek from the central investigating courts of the National High Court a decision prohibiting the holding, prohibiting in a precautionary or preventive manner the holding of such proceedings when they consider that, during the course of their development, there may be criminal acts and particularly criminal acts contrary to article 578 of the Criminal Code, i.e. acts which embody the criminal or criminal types contained in that article 578 of the Criminal Code, which summarises the exaltation and justification of terrorism or the contempt or humiliation of victims, very basically. Thus, beyond this very broad case law of the Constitutional Court and the no less extensive case law of the courts of the administrative and contentious jurisdictional order by setting limits and giving opinions, by issuing decisions in relation to specific administrative proceedings of the governmental authority by setting limits or prohibiting the conduct of these acts, we also have a long list of decisions of the central investigating courts of the National High Court, many of which have been issued every year. You have referred to some of them which contain clear guidelines, clear criteria and I could almost dare to say that they define a sort of clear doctrinal line in relation to the way in which we have to proceed in these kinds of situations. A doctrinal line that has two bases, very briefly, because we do not have enough time or opportunity to make a broader explanation of this issue. On the one hand, the central investigating courts, systematically and almost in all the cases in which they have had the opportunity to rule in relation to these matters, refuse to prohibit cautiously such acts, which can be concentrations, demonstrations – I insist – of a very different nature, arguing that doing so, and doing so in a preventive way in the field of criminal jurisdiction, would be a disproportionate violation of the exercise of a fundamental right. They say that this disproportionate restriction is not lawful and therefore does not give rise to its materialization. Secondly, immediately after denying the precautionary prohibition of such actions, they entrust the security forces, and as far as the Basque Autonomous Community is concerned, to Ertzaintza, to carry out a monitoring and follow-up of the actions that can be carried out specifically in the development of such non-prohibited acts, so that, if certain criminal elements are assessed, they are made known to the judicial authority, and this is the action that Ertzaintza must carry out scrupulously in recent times. Immediately after receiving such a decision, logically and not only because of that, but because there is a Basque law that mandates it in this regard, it carries out its work of monitoring, monitoring and monitoring these proceedings, and raises attestation from all of them by communicating it to the judicial authority, which then appreciates whether or not there are criminal elements to proceed in the appropriate manner. That has been and will be the case during this parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u68	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u69	Mr Erkoreka, we appreciate the explanation you have given us, but we do not think it is enough at all. On the one hand, Congressman Aitor Esteban has stated in recent public statements that the assertions of the leader of Sortu, Arkaitz Rodríguez, that ETA prisoners are neither rapists nor pederasts nor receive the same social reproach on the part of Basque citizens, are terrible manifestations, and stressed that members of the terrorist gang were not rapists, but that they have killed, kidnapped and violated human rights at the time of the armed organization; he even ensured that the ongiitorris On 16 September, various political parties in this House, including the Basque Nationalist Party, signed an agreement in which they did not, perhaps out of oblivion, point out that ETA militant Igor González Sola was convicted of being a militant of the terrorist band ETA, for trafficking in weapons and forgery of documents. With the weapons that he was dealing with, innocent citizens have been murdered, in some cases public officials who have given their lives to defend the freedom of all. The Basque Country is the only European region in which terrorists are publicly honoured, who remain proud of their criminal past. ETA has been defeated by the rule of law, but the prevention of future terrorism requires a clear delegitimization of violence in society, not seeking any justification for such human rights violations. Fernando Savater says, and we are convinced that he is right, that a flag of convenience has been created, which gives our society a dramatic character in the case of terrorism, with which, in his opinion, ETA has achieved to a large extent its goal of domesticating Basque society. Throughout the time when ETA was killing and terrorizing the streets, there was a large percentage of the population that, frightened, hid at the risk of being pointed, ruined, fired and even killed. The State Security Forces and Corpses, the Ertzaintza, the Civil Guard remember with terror those years in which the kale borroka was Living together is calling killers killers. Cohabitation is not to regret the death of a fundamental individual in the structure of ETA. Co-existence is repentance, collaboration with justice, listening loud and clear from Bildu a commitment to the full fulfillment of the sentences of the ages. Coexistence yes, but neither forget us nor forgive us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u70	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, first of all, I thank you for the fact that you have not called into question the legal basis that I have just set out, and that you have not intended to project the actions of the Ertzaintza and the department that I have the honour of chairing throughout this legislature on substantially different bases from those I have set out here, because I believe that there would be no room for this, provided that you wanted Ertzaintza to be conducted within the legal margins. Secondly, you have asked me about the intentions of the Government in relation to this type of action. I answered the question you asked. In its reply, it emits an endless number of particular opinions, both of itself and of other people, which may or may not be shared. You hadn't asked me for opinions, and I haven't given them to you. I have, of course, responded to what I was thinking about, with regard to what the Government intends to do in relation to that problem that you raise, with regard to those acts. Let me be precise, when you say that the Basque Country is the only country or territory in Europe where such situations occur. Man, this isn't exactly like that. And you can also check whether you have the opportunity to follow closely the orders of the National Court, of the different central courts of investigation, because there are very similar or similar acts in other territories of the Spanish State. For example, when a person who has been detained for a long time is released from prison, there is a committee that will give him a reception, will express his closeness and closeness to him, and the act does not occur territorially in Euskadi but takes place in the places where those prisons are located from which the persons who have been deprived of their liberty leave. Therefore, that idea that Basque territory is the only one exempt from certain practices, is not exactly so, it does not conform strictly to reality. I, with regard to opinions, could give you mine. You have quoted me some of my colleague Aitor Esteban, who I subscribe from the cross to the final point. You don't have to reproduce them; I fully subscribe to them. I fully share those positions. But, without the need to appeal to the positions of party comrades with whom we have shared many responsibilities in the Congress of Deputies, we both occupy adjacent seats for a long time. I am going to refer to the position taken on the issue that you adopted in this House a year ago, in a compromise amendment that was signed – I insist – by the vast majority of parliamentary groups, although there was one that did not endorse the compromise amendment and did not support it either, although it is true that it must be acknowledged that it did not vote radically against it; it did not show a belligerence in relation to it. And here it appears synthetically collected, but clearly collected, many of the values you appreciate or claim. It says the non-law proposal in its last formulation, after the transactional amendment: "The Basque Parliament rejects acts of recognition with public ostentation to ETA prisoners who go out of prison, and urges those who organize and promote them to stop doing so, out of sensitivity to the victims and the pain of their families, for respect for a critical memory of the past and to prevent them becoming an element of division and an added difficulty for the construction of a democratic coexistence". I think it's quite a complete formulation. And on the third point, which I would like to highlight here – I am not going to read the whole resolution because we would not have time for it either – it is said that: "The Basque Parliament calls on public institutions"... to all... "political parties and social actors, to redouble their efforts to actively promote among Basque citizens the delegitimization of the use of violence as a resource for the totalitarian imposition of political projects, both in the past and in the present and in the future." Well, this is – I insist – solemn statements made by this House with broad parliamentary support. I subscribe to them, point by point. And if they serve you to answer the second question you have raised, which has nothing to do with the Government's plans for such acts referred to in your inquiry, on my particular views on this question, they are clearly reflected in these resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u72	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. I tell the guests that the signs are out of order. So if you take them out, you go out. You got warned, all right? All right. Number of points in theme list: "I'm asking you, Jon Hernandez Hidalez, together with the legal members of the Podemos-IU team for Economism and the Chief of Environmental Branch, about the part of the EuskMAL F company." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u73	Good morning, chief physician. Mrs. Tapia. You will be aware, I suppose, of the decision of the company Navarra Trenasa, subsidiary of the Gipuzcoana CAF, of the decision transferred a few days ago to its workers to pose a collective dismissal and to leave on the street 110 workers of this company Navarra with the consequences that this has in Castejon and that area of Navarra. The Basque Government entered the capital of CAF, the owner of Trenasa, two years ago, with a small participation – if I remember not a bad one with a little percent – and we wanted to know, because we are concerned, even if this happens in a neighbouring autonomous community, if the Basque Government was aware of the decision of the CAF management to raise through Trenasa that collective dismissal before it was transferred to the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u74	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u75	Thank you, Mrs. President. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all of you. Mr. Hernández, directly responding to your question, didn't know beforehand that this would happen. But, as you know, in a company there are different organs: one is part in the great assembly of the stockholders, another in the administration, and the other in the direction of the administration. With our share, we are in the principal assembly, in the grand assembly of the stockholders, and such subjects are not treated on the spot. So we didn't know beforehand, we didn't have any information about the subject you ask us about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia, Miss Chief. We are aware that the Basque Government with that participation is not on the board of directors of CAF, but I believe that two years ago you and your colleague Mr Azpiazu, who is sitting next to you, announced the purchase of Kutxabank's shares in CAF, and announced it within a strategic approach of the Basque Government in order to guarantee the root of the companies, and we think that this is just an example. It is true that in this case they are not workers of the Basque Autonomous Community. We don't care, because the root in this case is in Navarre, which for us is more than a neighbouring autonomous community; we believe that the root of jobs is the same. We believe that this shows that this policy that you sometimes announce is not such, you do not influence the future of industry, you do not influence the decisions of companies in which there is public money. The responsibilities for public money are going to be asked of the Government of Navarre, which has also put a lot of public money in Trenasa, but what we have demanded of you – you have heard it before – is another kind of policy that has the greatest impact on industrial decisions, on the decisions of companies, because in this case Trenasa is one of the most viable factories of which CAF has throughout the State, and the workers do not understand that this decision to leave them on the street has been made in CAF and consider it to be a pure and hard relocation. And what we do want to ask them, because I think they might be in a position to do so, because it doesn't mean anything, it's a more forceful attitude. We think that the workers are now demanding, and I have demanded this in this House, greater support from the governments, and in this case greater support also from the Basque Government, for having actions in CAF, because this Government usually tries to have a balance in this kind of conflict, but we believe that it is very exquisite with the employers, with decisions that sometimes have to be told that they are not right, that they are a great harm to the people, and, instead, sometimes we hear that they are not as exquisite with the workers or with the unions. This government has no problem in saying things to them – we don't get involved –; they tell them. They have no problem saying: "this strike is not adequate", "this strike comes in bad place", "this strike is political" or "here is a contubern against the government". Sometimes companies, in this case CAF, should also be told that this decision is not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u78	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u79	Thank you, Mr. President, again. And I'm sorry, I've forgotten to remove the juice before. Mr Hernández, I was commenting on our participation, our presence in the CAF company for a few years. Of course, I repeat what was the purpose of our presence in the company CAF, a company, of course, which is a tractor, which is a very high-level company and which helps to keep a lot of jobs here in Euskadi, not only direct, but also indirect, remaining and continuing to grow. They continue to grow with new projects, precisely aligned with something that Mr Otero was talking about before, with two very relevant transitions to which we have to continue to face, prior to the COVID, but now in a much faster way, which are the energy transition, the electrification of transport, in this case public transport, whether by train or bus, and, on the other hand, the digitisation. We therefore believe and continue to believe that we must be in that company with a long-term vocation. It is no less true that you yourself said that the Government of Navarre, of which you were a party in the previous legislature and which you support in this legislature, also participates in a subsidiary of CAF, precisely with that same vocation. And with the Government of Navarre we maintain a close relationship to follow up on what is happening in this and other companies, and, of course, we have recently been talking and we continue to talk about this company. But the vocation of the Basque Government is not only to attend to certain circumstances, which are difficult; we have to deal with them in the most appropriate way and, we always say, in the least traumatic way possible and, to the extent possible, with agreement and trying to ensure that the knowledge that exists is not lost. That, of course, is always communicated to you and we try to do everything we can in that regard. But our vocation is, of course, to accompany companies and, in this case, to CAF, of which we are part and will continue to be part, I hope for a long time. And our job here is not so much to work on the Board of Directors or on the Board of Directors, as I told you before, but rather to work on other, perhaps somewhat more strategic, actions. The last of them: you will remember that the lehendakari in July 2018 was present in Wales by signing a collaboration agreement with that region, where, precisely, CAF has opened in Newport a new plant, a new factory to continue to increase its business and, at the same time, with that internationalization, to guarantee the jobs and continuity of the plant in Euskadi. We know that, on many occasions, these processes of internationalization seem difficult to understand, since we could say "it can be manufactured from Euskadi", but it is increasingly difficult and we have to be present in all those places. And the Government's job in this case is to accompany the company, to facilitate its deployment elsewhere, so that it can contribute to job security here in Euskadi. This is one of the last actions we have done, but we will continue along the same lines, always being aware that the energy transition and the digital transition will mark our future in the near future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "Ask me, find Casanova Alonso, member of the EH Collect Group to ERG's Department of Economyse and Environmental Department, about the planning for the defence of the Euskal, aeronautic sector." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u81	Good morning, everyone. "We decree the state of emergency to save our aeronautical industry." It's not my words, obviously, that I don't have that power. These are the words of the French Minister of Economy. What a chasm, what a chasm! Not only among these words, not only among the 15 billion euros that the French state is going to put on the table to rescue its aeronautical industry, but in the attitude, between this government and the Basque government. If we introduce "Tapia" and "aeronautics" in Google, we will only find two mentions, of past, in which the counselor alluded to the crisis in this sector. What an abyss! And it's serious. Because to us aeronautics is an important sector in our industry. There is a 1.6% of the Raw Product of the Interior. 6% of the entire Industrial Production. There are 5,000 jobs and $700, 15 percent of these jobs are already in danger. And we haven't heard anything from this government yet. And it's not just what they're saying from France. Even in the world, Junta, who has such an aeronautic sector as ours, has, in proportion perhaps, moved every corner to speak of it with the central government: Press statements, plans proposals... What's your plan in front of that?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u82	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u83	Eskerrik asko, curry, andrea president. Mr. Casanova, how much would I like to be a state like you, and probably a French state. You compare us to the French State. It may be better for Germany, because he has more power, if he chooses a state. Or, I don't know, we could choose anything else. But let us compare things which are possible, as you know, because that is not a comparison. Anyway, you mentioned how many things they get on Google and... You love to tell me that I get a lot out of the press, but I try to get it out when things are and I've got them, not before. And in this case we must be conscious that, you know, because you are very conscious that this subject is not alone in France, in the Spanish State, in the Eukadin or in Europe. The model has changed because we're not moving the same way today, on vacation or business. And that supposes that we've changed our model if we're going to take airplanes, and that's how it works in the market directly. Well, as you are in touch with Kluster, the government is in touch with Kluster, no: we are members. So, you're doing so many things and maybe you're aware of them, and you know what these plans are, but maybe we could talk for a second round. But we must be aware that this is not a two-minute situation. It's not a two-month situation. And the world-wide sector says it'll be 2025, at least we had a business or a model in February 2020 for stealing 70%. So there's a difficult time coming and it'll be structural.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u85	Man, in general industrial terms better Germany, perhaps, but in aeronautical terms perhaps France is the reference. I am touched by that responsibility that you have with that of going out in the press when you already have mature things. Check with the European funds how many times they have come out and the beer they have presented to us. Not to mention the powerpoint. Yes, I know this crisis isn't the responsibility of the government at all. I know it's a world-wide phenomenon. But for us, the aeronautic is a strategic sector, because technology plays there, high-quality employment, investment research and development. It's from the strategic. The second, the crisis is temporary, it's consistent, the crisis is caused by an external factor. So we know the sector will cross a desert. What we have to do is that this walk should be as brief as possible, and that there should be as little damage as possible. And in triga, the aeronautic sector is very connected with the public. Publicity isn't foreign in this sector. Many companies have been created by public funds, and there are public sectors and statues in many companies: and the other, Airbus, is the mother of all in that sense. So we're asking this government for a plan. We know the effect of the COVID is here, and we know what that has caused in regard to the demands and how the company works. But what we are asking this Government to do is to make a plan, a short-term plan and a medium- to long-term plan. In the short term, to minimize impacts, so that ERTE and working conditions can be prolonged without reaching traumatic redundancies, so that companies have more oxygen, have better funding and have periods of shortage in the credits they have requested. And we also ask you to be present at that merger run-off that is taking place, so that these mergers do not end up being absorptions of Basque companies by foreign companies, because we have precedents, as in ITP or Aernnova, for the relocation of decision-making centres. And what we want is for you to tell us – not why it is the crisis, which we already know – is what you will do to prevent that crisis from destroying 700 withdrawal jobs from the Basque aeronautical sector and some more in the future. And I would not like to end without referring to corporate responsibility. Companies like ITP, which has won 400 million euros in recent years, company like Aernnova, which has won 290 million euros in recent years, and which had asked for a credit to split 100 million euros in dividends and which, out of shame torera, in the face of what is happening, will not do so for the moment. But if they have that ability to ask for debt credits, to hand it over to them raw, they also have the ability to endure now in bad times. With public help, yes, but with the responsibility they have acquired before this society, which has also helped them to develop, grow and be what they are.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u86	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u87	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, I told you at this moment that we are conducting and conducting a plan with the cloister, not only in the Eucharistic grade, but in the whole state level, because after all we are part of ourselves and in the world, we must be placed. On the one hand, no more than those small, middle-class companies that you've just mentioned, but those who are below the chain of values, and who are likely to be in real danger, which, perhaps, produce more employments than those large ones. So we must consider both the great and the smaller. It takes a degree of contact, we'll go on instead of going on, and, as you mentioned, what you asked at this moment may have to be prolonged for a period of time because it's a complicated situation. Secondly, work is being done on a fund with a tractor company, such as Airbus, on a state-level fund, where other private companies as well as different governments will also participate. Of course, they have contacted us, and we are going to participate in that fund, so that it will provide liquidity to all these small businesses through participatory loans and then allow us to remain in its ownership. The Clean Aviation programme will also be accompanied by R & D in Euskadi. And, of course, we are going to work on new investments in digitisation of these companies and, finally, all those consolidation and collaboration processes that can be carried out in the Euskadi cluster will have to be accompanied by the government's public funds. So five straight lines we're working on, clear and precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Carmelus Barroja, the parliamentary member of the Basque Groups of Populanos, made for the economic, ogasun, and chief department, as the project of General Preservation in the 2021 Euscaly Autonomy. " Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, counselors. This is an important question, because we are at the beginning of the legislature and we need to know what is going on with the budgets. We heard something from the press. It seems that the attendance of the councillors is also delayed. In this sense, I believe that it was logical for us to ask about the budgets, because they are the element, the essential tool for the functioning of the Government and the country. And at a time like this, much more; it is a very important political moment, for the Budgets themselves, but also for the circumstances. In that sense, they are essential. Because they are announcing important plans to us, but that has to be embodied in the legal, political and economic instrument that the Budgets are. In addition, it has already been said that work is under way on this issue. The other day, the government spokesman spoke about the implementation of the budget project; it is important to establish the revenue forecast, fix the deficit according to the Spanish Government, as well as the debt capacity. These are some issues that we continue to see in the newspapers. We have also seen in the newspapers, in the media, meetings with budgetary effect that you have recently held. Well, they haven't been explained in this Parliament. This is a question. It's gonna be a short time. But let's hope he sets some conclusions for us. We have also learned from the media that the Budgets are going to be delayed, a delay in the draft Budgets by 2021. Well, we found this situation somewhat striking; understanding that the PNV-PSOE government is continuity of the previous one and that the work in the preparation of those budgets should already be scrapped. We have already heard of the collapse of the economy, unemployment in 2020. We have also heard that 2021 should be the year of recovery. That is why the budget is an essential element. And the delay in the presentation and preparation of the budget is a determining or worrying issue, in relation to which an instrument that is essential seems to be delayed. That is why we ask him what plans he has in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u90	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u91	Mr Barrio, I share with you the concern, both about the economic situation and about the need to have, in order to deal with this situation, approved budgets as soon as possible. Pero mouth le rspenndo un poco a la pregunta. Next Tuesday, we'll accept your guidelines on the government Council. And then all the way up to the 2021 Prejugation Authority will begin. Another key date for budgetary preparation is 15 October. On that day, the Basque Finance Council meets to decide on the contributions that the Government will count on for the next financial year. This amount, together with the 2.2% deficit or reference rate, which we agreed last Wednesday with the State Administration within the Joint Concert Commission, will basically determine the level of resources available for this year. And on December 15th, the Government Council will accept the project. And on the 18th of the month, we intend to present ourselves to the Basque Act. Those are the deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u92	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u93	Thank you, President. And thank you, counselor. Well, then the delay in the adoption of the budgets in this country will be confirmed at an essential moment. The principle of legislature and also the situation we have experienced show that they should be adopted at the time, in view of the needs. Is it not a little contradictory, moreover, to announce quantified economic plans, important economic plans, which have recently been announced by the Lehendakari and the advisers, and not yet to have approved the budgetary mechanism? I mean, isn't that kind of contradictory? Other instruments will be implemented and have to be effectively implemented in the health, educational and industrial fields. We have now talked about an important issue in relation to business and support. That has to be approved, but from now on Moreover, we understand that all this work could have been advanced. You always work on forecasts. And the forecasts, what you told us about 2.5 of the agreement, that was also foreseen, in the work of that approach. And that's what we missed. That is, the elections were on July 12, two and a half months ago. The Councillors and Councillors have not yet appeared in this Parliament to explain their plans of action. And in this sense, much more successful work could have been done in time for the budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u94	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u95	Mr. Barrio, look, I understand your concern. There's been a change of government. The change of government also means changes in structures. And the change of structures and the new departments also require administrative and organizational changes when drawing up the budget. That is an undeniable question. When the budget is quite normal, the budget guidelines are usually presented by June. This year, as you will understand, it was not possible in June to present the budgetary guidelines for this year, and we will approve them next Tuesday at the Governing Council. However, the extension is going to be automatic and it is going to be, in any case, a very short period of time for the budget to be extended, although that will depend on you, because if you enter the House in mid-December – as the Government intends and I have proposed – because you there will have the possibility of speeding up or not speeding up, that is no longer in our hands, but, in any case, the budget will be approved, I think, by mid-February, which is a great date to start working. In addition, I would like to inform you, Mr Barrio, that the budget for this year 2021 will be a courageous budget. We really want him to face the needs and the challenge of the Government by indebting us whatever it takes to put our country, the Basque Country, on the path of economic recovery, job creation and prosperity. We have recently given the forecasts of economic growth or decline for this year of 10.1, and of growth of 8.9 for next year, and that is a framework in which we are going to draw up the budget and believe that, in fact, we need to be brave and bold in order to give the situation a boost. We will put everything in our hands to encourage public investment and continue to ensure quality services and social protection policies at a particularly sensitive time; we will have financial and economic resources to do so. We signed, as I said, this very week, on Wednesday, an agreement of great value in the Joint Committee on the Concert, which shields our strength and financial and budgetary capacity. In less than two months, as you said yourself, you will be able to see that the intentions I transmit to you today are firm. In addition, I would like to extend my hand to you, and also to the groups in the House, to make their proposals once they are aware of the draft budgets. In order for the Government to take them into account; always, that is, these proposals will fit into the competitive framework, the budgetary economic framework and the strategic guidelines that the Government proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u96	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question of David Soso Rodríguz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU, of economics and of Ogas' department, about the descent of the collection and the settlements." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u97	Good morning, Mr. Subaz. When we recorded this question, the Joint Commission had not yet met, and we can therefore say that we welcome the agreement, of course, of the possibility, as it could not otherwise be, of incurring the necessary deficit autonomously without the previous limitations. In any case, you have mentioned that we are willing, or the Government is, to owe us everything we need. We and we are extremely concerned about the collection data that have been given, the forecasts that you have already publicly mentioned, which are frankly bad. Already in August a decrease of 17% compared to the previous year was announced, and he also mentioned from his department that it will be around 20% the reduction of income forecast at the end of the year. Let us be honest: regardless of the negotiated deficit, this significant reduction, this contraction in the economy and income will not, unless alternative measures to indebtedness are taken, allow the necessary shielding of public services, nor will this additional investment that we believe is necessary to recover the cuts of the last decade. As a matter of fact, I am going to ask you a number of questions. Basically, the first is how the Basque Government is going to cope with the drop in revenue, how its department is going to compensate for this loss of capacity to sustain the necessary public investment, whether it is only going to accentuate or compensate for this loss on the basis of indebtedness, or whether it is going to implement measures as recently mentioned publicly using in our opinion a euphemism which is the reallocation of resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u98	Thank you, Mr. Soto. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u99	Mr. Heat, to be sure, last Wednesday after the Misical Committee of the Economy Testament, I can answer your question in a much more accurate manner. And besides, I like to do that because I'm sure that after this week, the Economics Testament is the key to our self-organization. As you know, the downfall of the collection will be very important to all the organizations, we don't know the amount yet, and we don't know the more important for the Basque organizations, because we're on the same footing as ourselves, and we're going to be able to endure the collapse of money, such as that caused by COVID-19. The Concert represents a level of self-government in economic matters that requires responses adapted to the Basque reality, and this is what we have achieved this week of arduous negotiation. Before going further into your reply, I would like to convey to you that the Government has defended a debt reduction strategy in the past legislature with a view to having our accounts as sound as possible and with the greatest room for manoeuvre. In March we agreed on a deficit path for the next three years of zero per cent, although it is true that we were cautious enough to include an express mention of the possibility of reviewing it in the event of a change, an extreme or unforeseen situation that would alter the economic framework, which has occurred, as you know. In July, I closed with the Ministry of Finance a deficit limit of 2.6% for the Basque Government, which represents some EUR 1.7 billion more expenditure capacity for this year 2020. And we will not hesitate to resort to the debt that is necessary, to provide the public services and to fulfil the commitments we have, without being affected by the fall of the collection. We'll be in debt until we cover that fall, and if necessary, more. This is no time for austerity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u100	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u101	First of all, I appreciate the explanations, Mr Azpiazu. Well, welcome be debt, welcome be the end of austerity, as you mentioned in your speech, although it would have been opportune for that end of austerity to have been propitiated a few years ago. But, in any case, we and we do want to put on the table, too, which is the fact that we are in debt without limit, if it is not accompanied in turn by a structural change in fiscal policy in this country. Because you will tell me, or you will clarify me, if you do not make a structural change in fiscal policy in this country, who will pay that debt to which we are going to add from Euskadi. In Euskadi little is collected and poorly collected. Almost 8% less is collected than the European average. The average, I insist, is 1.3 billion, which we were already short of before the pandemic, to match European standards of taxation. But it is that, moreover, it is collected unjustly. It is collected through a tax structure that primarily affects labour yields and less and less on capital income. I will not now mention, because I would not have time, the agreements that have been reached in the past in relation to fiscal policy. The debt that we are faced with, without changes in tax policy, in the country's income project is nothing more than throwing the ball forward. We urge you, Mr Azpiazu, to launch the Euskadi Tax Coordination Body, in order to push forward the inevitable changes you have to face in fiscal matters in this country. We believe that it is essential that structural change is paralleled in fiscal terms with indebtedness.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u102	Thank you, Mr. Soto.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u104	Your time is up. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u105	Mr. Soto, I don't think this is the time to raise taxes. If we were to raise taxes now, we would have a contractual effect at a time when we want to boost economic activity. It would be a contradiction, it would go in the opposite direction. Another issue is that, as it is committed, at the end of the year, the previous reform needs to be reviewed. And when we start to see the light coming out of this complicated situation of the pandemic and the economic situation that it has led us to, I think it will be time to actually reflect on how much of today's debt we have to pay ourselves and how much we have to pay other generations. I think that is a reflection that needs to be done. But I think it is not the time, because I think it is the time to boost activity through indebtedness and preserve public policies to the greatest extent possible. In this regard, I also believe that Wednesday's announcement of Europe's suspension of tax rules is something positive and necessary. I have said this before, I myself defended this policy in Madrid on more than one occasion, because I believe that it is time to expand demand, to boost economic activity, through public policies of public spending, etc. It is true that the rules have been suspended for 2020-2021 and that these will be set as reference rates, but this will give us greater flexibility. Another point in the agreement of the Joint Committee on Concertation was to set the limit for 2021, which in the case of the Basque Government is 2,2 %. In other words, we will be able to incur an additional debt of EUR 1.6 billion. Moreover, the suspension of the European rules, in principle, will allow us to manage these same limits, even with greater flexibility, which will benefit all Basque society. If I advance you that the Government will resort, and I have said so before, to the debt that is necessary, but it will continue to manage with rigour and responsibility. We don't know how to do it any other way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u106	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Your time is up. The 15th point in the theme list: "Internation, you're in Martíni together with the staff of the Podemos-IU members of the Board of Education, about the beginning of the year." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u107	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief physician. I'll try yesterday's revival. First of all, we mean the beginning of the course, Edemologically, isn't bad. It's true that there's an inability, but we're glad that we've overstepped our situation in March, and because, well, it's being handled. But, Mr. Bilartz, at the same time, we're saying there's a lot of problems in the education system and in the centers. Workers needed to maintain the bubbles are not yet hired. Workers are not hired at the moment to guarantee meals. There are still problems for supplying EPIs in many countless centers. It's a subject that's been happening every day. We don't understand how Eudel and Euk0 began working alone in the last few weeks of August. We don't understand how to satisfy students with special needs, and to add no resources to those protocols which require them to satisfy their needs. Ez dugu ulertzen that the figure responsible for the COVID, who in many families expected that she would be another person, an additional worker, is a teacher, a teacher, who, in addition to giving classes, the same as last year, has to assume the task of responsible for the COVID. And this has also been done unilaterally from the Department of Education, without any dialogue with the workers. 24 hours, weekends included, etc. I think we need a little more dialogue and a little more empathy with those people who are facing a reality for which they do not have the means. And, as I said yesterday, there are no formations. No formation on digital devices. There is no formation in digital education. There are no formations in the emotional formation, such as how to manage mourning, whether teachers or students or families. Oraindik, ez dago elkarlanik eragileekin, yellow sailburu. Sindikatuek bilera protokolario bat bezala baloratu due lehenengo bilera. Greba bat egon zen Ostean, bathe the graba hori aldez aurretik deituta zegoen. Zu helpu zara, bathe zure bizkarrean, zoritxarrez, PNVk egindako manage dago. It is not a strike that was called in response to that meeting, but it is a strike that was called for months and months and months of incommunicado detention by the Basque Government with educational workers. There's probably some other problems. And I mean today, as I said yesterday, we'll have time for the rest of the business, and you'll have time to plan it, and you'll have your plans here, in front of the law. But the 2020-2021 course is running, and these problems need to be looked for a solution today. Ez of Bidezkoa 2020. Urtean mobilizes burutu behar izada jantoki zerbitzua bermatzeko. Ez da bidezkoa mobilizes burutu behar iziza irakasle ordezkoak jartzeko zentro batan. No, it does not seem normal to us the situations that occur in educational institutions in Euskadi. That a management team have to be forced to resign, for example. Or that the AMPAs of dozens and dozens of public centres in Euskadi must be mobilized to guarantee them a basic right, such as the dining room. I think we need to take much more and better care of the people who are making a bet for public education. People, workers, families, students, boys and girls, who are creating community in our villages and in our neighbourhoods, and who are therefore cohering in our society. In short, to republish educational management. Republic – before this issue has emerged – is not only to change, but also the head of state, but also to change the ways of doing things, the forms of governance, in this case, of educational management. An educational community, Mr. Bildarratz, has made an immense effort in the time of confinement, in the summer as well, and is doing so now at the beginning of the course. That's why the moment Honetan nahi said slut zehatz bat egin. Asteazkenean, Urkullu lehendakariak Euskadi Iratian honako hau esan zuen: "While the schools remained closed, we were working. How would we know what would happen in September? How would we know what would happen in September?". Mr Bildarratz, I have to ask you the question as an Education Advisor, there is no lehendakari at this time. The elections were called by the lehendakari when he wanted to. The government has settled when Mrs Idoia Mendia and Mr Urkullu wanted to. The beginning of the course was already prefixed. How can we then admit to saying how we were going to know what situations we would have in September? In addition, showing that the centers were not working in the summer season. Zentzu horretan, irakurri nahi said atzo – abide pilo bat daude – Twitterren eskola publiko batako zuzendariak idatzi zuena: "Mr Urkullu says that while in summer the educational centers have been closed, they, the Basque Government, have been working. The educational centre I represent has been open all summer, except for the last week of August. What has been closed has been the Education Delegation in Bizkaia, for example. We have been all July and August trying to contact both planning and high school staff: it has been simply impossible. They didn't pick up the phone, they had the phones off. There haven't been any phones, not just in the summer, but before. He arrived on August 14, they took out vacancies to cover throughout the year; in our case, they took out two more places. We've been trying to fix the problem all summer. The Basque Government is on vacation," or at least – this is what I add – did not pick up the phone. "A vacancy that came out on August 14 was filled last week, the last week of September. They pulled out an antiCOVID protocol on August 28, the update, when the centers already had our contingency plans designed." They say that cleaning the centers, given the situation, is very important, but they do not hire additional staff. On the day of the strike, Mrs Mendia decreed 100% of the minimum cleaning services. Stos son widowos unjemplos. And you probably know others. Yesterday, we put others on the table. And, as I said yesterday, we appreciate at least that you're planning those meetings, doing those meetings. But we've got to get through talking to agree to a plan with unions and operators. It's up to you to collaborate and it's up to you. And I say it again: we are especially critical of how this course start is being managed. Because the media aren't coming, and these are just some of the examples. We deeply disagree with the educational model you have, but we are willing to cooperate and make proposals, as we have done so far, for the sake of the educational community. Above all, because we believe that this 2020-2021 course is fundamental. We lost a few months, and they saved us like they did, because we had a surprise. But now we must plan and act. Malcolm X said that education is our passport for the future, but I would say that also for the present, because it belongs to the people who are being educated right now. I therefore believe that we are still in time to put in place sufficient means to save this course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u108	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u109	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. Mr Martínnez, thank you for your welcome. This interpolate will be my first part of the Eusual Act. And to have occasion to discuss the matters which relate to education is indeed a pleasure, if, in my humble opinion, we retain two characters: and secondly offer the contribution to the process of the education of the disciples. We must be exemplary, and what we demand from education we must offer to education itself. In these difficult times of the COVID, few areas are as instinctive as the ones in education. I hope, together with you, we have a chance to consider for all of us who are in the world of education, that we have a chance of making proposals. So, Mr Martínnez, thank you for your initiative. I've had a few meetings with the educational unit these three weeks. My troubles have been clearly explained to me: requests, even needs... And they all felt something: that we must keep our pupils out of our quarrels. As far as possible, we need to protect, guarantee, and develop the process of education. The agreement here will be for the good of the education system. As Chief physician, I'll try to listen and answer. I mean, to promote our conversation with all of us. Your team talks of various issues, and I'll answer your question: The beginning of the year has begun far better than we expected. There's been a lot of difficulty. And there are things to improve, yes, but the year has gone on. Schools are safe spaces, and we'll keep working, so they can keep going. You ask me how I value the start of the school year. And I answer him: much better than we expected. Much better. With many difficulties, with aspects to improve, no doubt, but the course is moving forward firmly. The centers are safe spaces, and we will work together with the educational community, so that it remains so. You're missing information from your interaction. I'm not going to list you all the actions you've done, but some actions that will help to understand the complexity of the situation. On March 13th, we sent instructions to the schools from the department about the following topics: the attention of the students, the relations of families, or the organization of education. On March 13th, we regulated the opportunity of telework. On March 16th, we directed the new digital Amarauna platform. On March 25th, the instructions for paying families for the dining room, though the classes were closed. On March 31, the example of leaving computers in the most needed schools. On April 22, the end-of-the-life education plan, the evaluations, and the adaptations of the course. May 7th, measures on the prevention of the schools' dangers. May 15th, May 25th, etc., etc. Communication is imperative. And there's been a lot of communication. Obviously, it had to react in front of an unknown situation. It's time for us to adapt and follow the situation. That's how we're supposed to keep doing it. In the justification of Interlation, you say that families were very concerned about the news that didn't come from the Board of Education. You can understand my concern. We're all worried. But the news arrived at the end of June: The Education Department prepared a practice protocol looking into the new school school. This document was contracted and enriched by the study of educationists. In this document three different states of return were considered: The presence, the semi-present or the need to be re-confirmed. This protocol is a living document, and can be changed at every moment by the proposals of the agents, and even by the proposals of the political parties here represented. That's what I'm inviting you to do. And at the end of August, as you have mentioned, the protocol was renewed. But not only at the end of August: the meetings we make every week, yes, between the Board of Education and the Medical Department, every week, and we renew, complete, and conform to reality, because it is a living reality that moves. So the news was there. I admit, however, that there is a certain uncertainty. Troubles, yes. It must also be admitted that the development of the palace changes from one day to the other, and society itself is troubled, the whole society is troubled. All this began the study, and, as I have said, I make a very positive estimate. Students have prepared themselves to receive them, to ensure their safety. It's been a lot of work and I'd like to thank the board of directors and the teachers for the complications they've had for certain space. Every lesson is different: physical characters, position, number of students, environment, custom. Every school is a business system, and it is proper that each school should do its regulations and recommendations. But we can't leave them alone, we must help them, it's true. I met them this week, and they handed me the way they felt at so many times or at a time, and it is our duty to be with them and with them. Thanks to this effort, the schools are everywhere safe, and that's what the Medical Department says. The students' professionals are giving a great answer. I have met with all the management of public studies, as I have said. And I've been grateful to all the board for the effort they're doing. In these assemblies we have all published our opinions and opinions. I've heard the worries, suggestions, and criticisms of hundreds of directors. Some questions have been solved, or are about to be solved, others are being examined to give the right answer, which is the way: speak, listen to opinions, and encourage a shared thought. In the last few days I have been able to meet with the addresses of all public centres. I have been able to convey to you in first person my gratitude for all the effort, for all the work you are doing. At those meetings I was able to explain my vision, my opinion about our educational system and also about this beginning of course. All of us, as well as the directors and directors, have been able to give our opinions. I have responded to the concerns, proposals and criticisms of many directions. Some problems have already been solved or are moving towards a new solution. In other cases we are studying them so that we can give them an adequate answer. And I have also committed to them that during this course we will have two more meetings to evaluate the commitments made and to be able to plan the next course as well, when we can meet, there by May. Because we will not yet know how the pandemic evolves, but what we do know is that face-to-face teaching, face-to-face education is the bet that all members of the educational community understand that we have to do. And this is the way: to talk, to listen and to promote a shared reflection. Finally, one last thing I've been asked by the directors to say to me: to make a confession to the teacher. But not a confession of words, but a confession made up of actions and words. Good for us, my whole romance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u110	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u111	Thank you, Mr. Bilaritz, for the answer I gave you. And there's something really grateful about the tone, something to answer. But now I'm going to tell you some things that I think I don't know what to say. In the first place, I also mean to say, I think that most of the political groups agree in this regeneration, but I do not know all of them, but most of them do. But this surrender, as you have said, must be seen in actions. In that sense, I've asked you a few direct questions. It's true you can't answer the case, but the new squares announced where they are and how they're managing, and those new places that are happening in the dining-rooms and all those new places and new jobs that have been announced, and also the extra employees needed to improve their attention to students who have special needs. Anyway, if I don't get the answer right now, we've just inserted an information request to write it down. And I confess to you what you said at first, and therefore, with a long period of view, I hope there will be deep discussions here, at the Board of Education and anywhere else. But right now we're talking about the beginning of this class. And in that sense, I think it's a lack of self-critics, not for you, not for you, because you started, I think, on September 7th, at the end of September, but also from this government, which is composed of PNV and PSOE. Some of the problems you're in now are structural, and we can't answer them for a few weeks, of course. And that's not what we're asking for. But things that are happening, things you're listening to from the directors are consequences of lack of planning or of bad planning. I think you were at the Gipuz yesterday together with the different directors of public education. And I've got 20 directors, or, well, some thoughts about college. In this sense, they said, I shall end by putting these thoughts on the table. "As we demand from the directors of the leadership, we ask you, as head of the Board of Education, to take leadership. To carry this great challenge before us among all, the public euscal school deserves it. "We haven't heard from the committee that was formed on May 15th." You've also made a reference to this board, but this is the opinion of the directors: "We have not heard of the commission formed on the 15th of May. We don't really know what stopped him." It's an opinion. "The authorities, well or ill, as every one can, but we have prepared the beginning of the year with commitment and care. It's the plans we've developed that the teachers have followed. We had to start everything without special resources. Where are these 1,000 teachers supposed to be? "Or they were foretold Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u112	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u113	Yes, Mr Martínnez. Schools, and this is an important item right now, are safe sites. Thanks to all the work he's done and done, there's been a safety. In this respect, as you ask me for information, I'll give you data. On the Friday of the week, by the coronabirus, there were 280 rooms interrupted by the presence of activity, which was 1,59 hours ago. In today's data, at this moment, the number of rooms which have been interrupted by the previous activity has descended to 156, that is to say, to 89% of all the rooms. The number of schools affected by the Koronavians has descended from 188th of the previous Friday to 114 schools. Educational centres are safe spaces. We have achieved this among all of us: directions of centers, faculty, students and administration. And that's how the data backs it up. Last Friday we had 280 closed classrooms, which accounted for 1.59% of the total number of classrooms we have in Euskadi, which, as you all know, is 17,554. Well, according to the data collected today, the number of closed classrooms has dropped to 156, which is 0.89%. That is, with regard to the number of centres affected, we have moved from 188 centres to 114. You ask me for data around the aid of rooms, and I want to explain that we have followed three criteria: the first, in the most necessary schools, we shall consider the complexity of education in the schools; the second criterion, the size of schools, the number of rooms, and the number of students; and the third, that all public schools will increase in number of workmen. As we examine these principles, we are determining the aid of the schools. I will summarise this in relation to the reinforcements being made available to schools. At the moment, we are working on the recruitment of more than 500 teachers. Each centre will decide on the characteristics of the reinforcement that corresponds to it and the type of day that interests it most and for what interests it. All educational centres – we are talking about the public sphere – will have an increase in staff. Everyone. On the other hand, we currently have 300 new teachers to replace the faculty who, for different reasons related to COVID, cannot attend class even if they are not on leave. They will therefore continue to work from home, but in the meantime they are replaced in schools. We also want to point out that at the moment 800 teachers over the age of 60 have been released in a third of their class hours. That's 202 more than last year's course. These hours are allocated to what the centre requires, but, in turn, new teachers have been hired to give that third of class hours I mention. With regard to replacements, I would like to point out that, in the three weeks that we have been in class, the closure of September has been achieved with 3716 replacements, which represents 1,040 replacements more than last year, i.e. an increase of 38,8 %. With regard to the dining rooms, we are hiring more than 500 monitors, around 100 cleaning people and 30 more in the kitchen area. As you can see, it's a lot of work, but it's also an effort. And we're ready to improve and strengthen what we're always doing. I think that eupscal educational system is giving a proper response to this situation. Still, he was always ready to dispute and always ready to build, and always ready to start from conversation and loyalty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u114	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interpetration, in regard to the reduction of the railway transport that passes through our territory." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u115	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, counselors, counselors, good morning, again. Well, in this question we put to Mr Arriola, we are talking about an issue that essentially depends – let's put it first – on another administration, but we understand that you, as Transport Advisor, must also ensure the success of the public mobility policies of the citizens of this country. And this is an important responsibility to ensure that the serious deficiencies in rail transport in the Basque Country, and specifically in Álava, are resolved. I mean, I think it's an important responsibility that you have as a Transport Advisor. It has to act and act as a transmission belt, we understand, with other administrations in order to resolve the railway mobility of the citizens of this land, because it is seriously affected. This inquiry is to know what we can do, what the Basque Government can do above all to restore railway services suspended during the pandemic, during the state of emergency, alert, health emergency, and, incomprehensiblely, not restored by Renfe, by the Ministry, for whom it has responsibility. It is incomprehensible not to restore them once the educational activity, the commercial activity, the entrepreneurial activity, that mobility is almost normal has been restored. In this regard, there is a lack of essential public transport, such as rail. This is an interpellation, which will put an end to the Council's replies and the possibility of the Basque Parliament speaking at the time. I know there are some initiatives on the table; we understand that you too will have first-hand information, beyond what we can have through the media. You will be able to explain to us why to maintain this serious reduction in the territories of Álava, Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa, mainly in Álava, where greater concerns have been expressed by mayors of different parties regarding the situation. Once the health emergency is complete, there is no explanation for the fact that different rail services have ceased to be provided. However, this situation is taking place on different routes that have not yet resumed the offer prior to 14 March, and we are doing so. Collectives, organizations from all over the territory – because it does not only affect the Basque Country, it affects all of Spain – have asked for the replacement of all these railway movements, and that is what we intend, that is what we want to know: what happens, why this situation has not been restored. It is very interesting to see, moreover, documents talking about strengthening the proximity, not only to stop putting them into operation, but to strengthen them, to strengthen health transport. Without going further, something as important as the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, Airef, was talking about it in July of this year, and told the Government that there is insufficient investment in proximity, despite the strong increase in demand for this service, which is also the most used in Spain. Airef proposes an increase in rail mobility. Mobility criteria are essential in relation to public transport, and in this sense, this is the opposite of what is being done today by those responsible for rail transport. That is why, in that sense, I believe we need to receive information. It's urgent to recover the frequencies. In addition, inconsistent hours are being created within the meaning of this reduction. I say it again: they harm students, mainly in the Alavesa rural area. There are the complaints, the concern, the indignation even of the mayors of the area, of students, of self-employed, of companies, of workers. This affects issues that run counter to the sustainability criterion: increased use of private cars, more overnight stays, more travel costs, even municipalities that have to pay taxis to complete what was previously done by the railway. That's part of that new normality, unfortunately. So, in that sense, we can do something. Above all, I understand that something can do you from your responsibility as Transport Advisor. And that is why we have raised this question. He had previously reminded the mayors of Alavese and neighbouring towns; one must not forget the connection that Vitoria has with Miranda, for example, essential transportation core, and with Treviño County. These mayors have expressed that concern and their complaints, recently, for what they called "drastic reduction of rail transport". And they were already quantifying it, and they were realizing that it affected normal life, normal life, but also economic activity and mobility. We therefore ask you about the purposes of the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport in relation to the actions of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, to recover, reorganize and enhance the railway lines of connection within the territory of Álava, of the territories of the Basque Autonomous Community, and of connection, of course, of our cities and of our peoples with the rest of the Spanish territory, eliminated in this state of alarm; also the connection with the border. We're waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u116	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Barrio, as you know and have said in your speech, the Department of Transport does not hold the Madrid-Irun railway line, nor does it intervene in its commercial exploitation, which corresponds exclusively to Renfe. Therefore, we do not have the competitive resources to intervene directly in the problem raised in your intervention. But this does not mean that our department disagrees with the problem that is assuming for many people the continuity of the suspension by Renfe of various frequencies of the regional service and of the medium distance, as a result of the state of alarm decreed in March. A suspension that is affecting, above all, users of various Alawite localities, such as Agurain, Alegria-Dulantzi or Nanclares de Oca, as well as Miranda de Ebro or Alsasua, who use the train to travel to Vitoria-Gasteiz for reasons of study or work. On the contrary, this problem is affecting us from the first minute. We barely made the appointment of those responsible for the transport area, last week, we got to work to try to make a way out, in coordination with the other Alavese institutions concerned and Renfe herself. We immediately contacted the Foral Diputación de Álava, as an institution combining the interests of the historical territory and with competence in the field of transport, specifically with the foral deputy of Viarias Infrastructures and Mobility. And I can tell you, too, that this was one of the issues that I transferred to the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, José Luis Ábalos, at the meeting that I had with him and with the Secretary of State, Pedro Saura, at the Ministry's headquarters last Monday. Following this meeting, on Wednesday I was able to speak on this matter, by telephone, with Renfe's president, Isaiah Táboas, and with the delegate of the railway operator's northern area. And I can tell you that yesterday I was told that Renfe is going to recover some of the regional services suspended in March from next October 13th, in ten days' time. I imagine the company will have already informed at this time of the details, or it will be about to do so. In any case, I have been informed that this Tuesday, day 13, the service of train 16207, which departs daily from Miranda de Ebro at 7:20 in the morning and arrives at the station of Vitoria-Gasteiz at 7:46. The suspension of this service, which had been used by about 305 people, on a weekly average. The vast majority, 78% from Miranda, was one of the most problematic, because of the difficulties in giving it an alternative by road. The other service Renfe will recover is the 16204 train, which makes the reverse journey, Vitoria-Miranda, leaving at 14:30 hours from the Alavesa capital and arriving at its destination at 14:57. It was attended by a weekly average of 154 people. From the railway company I have also been moved that their first intention was to replace both trains on day 5, next Monday, but that was not possible for technical reasons. As for the Madrid-Vasco corridor, covered by Alvia trains, whose frequencies have also been cut by the emergency of the COVID-19, I have been informed that from the 9th day two circulations will be returned: every Friday, the Alvia Madrid-Vitoria-San Sebastián, which leaves at 17:40 hours from Chamartín; and on Sundays, the Alvia Bilbao-Madrid, which leaves at 17:00 hours from the Abando station. However, for the time being, Renfe will not put in service the 16000 train, Irun-Vitoria-Gasteiz, used by the localities of the Alavesa Plain and the Altsasu area, which left at 5:52 hours from the border city and arrived at the capital, Vitoria, at 7:58. This train also performs proximity functions in Gipuzkoa, between the stations of Irun and Brinkola-Oñati. I believe that the recovery of these services that I have commented to you is a step forward, although the railway offer that had been available in Álava and the other connections in the whole of the Basque Country before the arrival of the pandemic is certainly not reached. Renfe assures that it is willing to recover movements as the health situation evolves and, in particular, the demand of travellers, both in the regional service and in the mid-distance service. As a result, as long as the situation is not normalized, the various administrations concerned – parliaments, municipalities and the Basque Government – will have to work together to alleviate this problem. Firstly, by precisely identifying the number of people affected and who lack an alternative public transport to go to study, work or health centres or to do essential tasks. And secondly, looking at the best way to give an interim response to this demand which has ceased to meet the railways on a temporary basis. In this regard, I can also tell you that this Transport Councillor – the framework – has already concluded a meeting next week with the out-of-pocket Member of Road Infrastructures and Álava Mobility, which will address, among other issues, this one that we are dealing with here today. Well, I'm not going to get any longer on this first shift. This is, Mr Barrio, what I can now answer to you about the problem you raised in your question. I hope that, with the effort and will of all the parties involved, especially the railway operator, we will be able to give a satisfactory response to those who have seen their transport capacity limited by the reduction of Renfe's services. Our department's commitment to finding solutions is clear.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u118	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u119	Gracias, president. I thank Mr Arriola for his answer to this question. The concern is clear. The news he's been sending us is half-lived. In that sense, it seems that still from Renfe or from the ministry there is a somewhat scarring attitude in something that is claimed. I referred earlier to the indignation of the mayors of the areas, who are very concerned, precisely, about this insufficiency. Well, as you have told us, on October 13 some lines are repositioned, but it does not completely replenish what service was, an essential transport service, which had to be recovered in its entirety. We are very drawn to the attention that there are such serious difficulties to put that so, that you want to take advantage of all this for that reduction, that I suppose it will bring with it reduction of personnel, of recruitments... The usual in relation to these issues within what is an essential service. In addition, all administrations, especially those of the Government of Spain, are filled with mouths in relation to sustainable policies, the environment... Suddenly, what they are promoting with these reductions is more traffic, more use of the private car rather than public transport. And again I remember what I said to you before, something so important, within what is the analysis of public policies: the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, Airef, with its reports, spoke of an insufficient investment in proximity, despite the strong increase in demand for this service, which is also the most used in Spain. That's what I was saying. Airef proposes to focus on mobility criteria in order to ensure efficient provision of infrastructure capable of meeting citizens' mobility needs with rational expenditure on resources. Well, the opposite is being done with this decrease. We can say that something has been announced. We will see and we will also contact those responsible, the buildings, the mayors of all these affected localities to see how, to what extent it is recovering. But it's just that it's urgent to get the frequencies back. This stop also coincides with the stoppage of the works of the High Speed Train, that is, that a kind of railway marsam is added. And the timetables, moreover, have been the worst of all in relation to some population needs. It is an odyssey to leave Álava for work or for studies to other localities, to Madrid... This is also leading to a deterioration and abandonment of railway normality. We have to denounce the silence of some administrations, such as the outside parliaments, in this case that of Álava, in relation to this issue, which affects our population. Moreover, this reduction that is maintained over time is to ignore the Alavesa reality. It is an injury to the rural area: it favours depopulation. If the services that need to be maintained for the population in rural areas disappear. This news isn't right. And Renfe answers in some case that there is less demand. But it's the fishnet that bites its tail, and less that there will be if they are suspended. Don't be tempted to keep these cuts. What is involved is to stimulate all those paths and all those connections from the countryside, the city and other territories outside the Basque Country. Instead of encouraging people to use public transport, which is also more sustainable, by encouraging them to use private transport, in addition to the higher cost for some municipalities of having to hire private transport to take people. We will demand more effort through a motion. We thank you for your efforts, but, in any case, we understand that we must continue to demand at the highest level, from the Government of Spain and Renfe.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u120	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u121	Mr Barrio, it is clear that we are experiencing an unprecedented exceptional situation. And the passenger transport sector has not been freed from the impact of the restrictions on activities and movements caused by COVID-19. In fact, he's been one of the most affected. Above all, air and rail transport and, to a lesser extent, road traffic regulations. The problem is that, while other systems have been recovering the lost frequencies as economic and educational activities were normalized, the return of rail transport, which by its nature is much less elastic than road transport, is being much slower. And this slowness is surely influenced by the fact that the use of the Renfe line in Álava and in the whole of Euskadi, of rail passenger transport, is not exactly very high. According to the latest available data, which are from last year, a total of 170,491 people each year used Renfe's regional train services on their way through Álava. This means an average daily of 467 people. It is also a very concentrated passage in the early morning and mid-afternoon hours. But it cannot be obvious that the provision of a public service must not only influence motivations for economic performance, but must also address social considerations. From what I have seen, the railway operator is sensitive to the problem that the suspension of railway services poses for the people of the mentioned localities who have been using them to come to Vitoria-Gasteiz for work or study. A problem that has been echoed, as you said, by the people directly affected, but also by the mayors of the localities along the Renfe line. In response to his question, I could have told him that the Basque Government's direct responsibilities in railway matters are in line with the specific lines on which it has management, which in Álava, in essence, refer to the Vitoria-Gasteiz tram, driven and managed by Euskotren. A service that, as you know, has recovered all the frequencies that it had before the start of the pandemic, that last year moved 8,338,025 people and that continues to expand, because after the expansion to the university, completed last February, is already running its arrival to the neighborhood of Salburua, with a prolongation of 2.5 kilometers. I could have stayed at this point, like I said. But you've seen that we've been involved. Because the problem of these people, many of them citizens of our community, is the responsibility of the Basque Government. In fact, Euskadi's 2030 Sustainable Transport Master Plan has as one of its objectives, number 6, to develop an integrated public transport system. That is, that the different modes of public transport can give an adequate response to the needs of the population as a vector of development and growth, while at the same time betting on economic, social and environmental sustainability. And in this integrated model rail transport has a fundamental role. Therefore, in compliance with the general principles which must govern the actions of the public administrations, and in particular that relating to cooperation, collaboration and coordination between them, our department will continue to encourage the actions that are appropriate and necessary to maintain and improve a railway offer that gives an adequate response to the needs of the historical territory of Álava and the whole of Euskadi. And that is why I have expressed to you my willingness to work with the other institutions concerned, within the framework of their respective competences, to ensure that the frequencies of Renfe's service are repositioned suspended or, if necessary, to seek alternatives that compensate or minimize the consequences of this deficiency. Anyway, I'm not surprised they're going to make a motion. I know the interpellations are for motions. They are not as a consequence, but for that purpose. Therefore, when I present the motion, we will be in plenary, and I suppose there will be a chance of reaching agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u122	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 18th point in the subject list: "Ask me, Unai Fernandez de Betoño Saenz de Lacuesta EH Team Members for the planetion, Housing and Top of the Transport Corps, about the stopping of the work of Donosti Métro." Fernandez de Betoño, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u123	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. At the end of 2017, the works of the U-bahn of the St. Johns began. In all, it was about 200 million euros, and it was supposed to be finished for 2022 in two years. On June 5th a building had to be emptied because it had been a hole in the Bridget Street. On September 25th, for everyone's surprise, ETS announced that the contract of the work will be broken, and, what is more serious, the project must be rebuilt. We don't know what cost, not about money, nor about time. This is a disaster, Chief Arriola. ♪ Everybody knows ♪ ♪ Everybody knows ♪
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u124	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u125	Thank you, President. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, responsibilities are cleared when it is considered that there have been negligence or foresight. And I understand that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u126	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u127	Well, the answer gave me a big mouth. O Sea Inpression You've been able to do this project since the beginning. You've learned how to make a bistrot of the St. Donosti, at all costs, even though ETS has other priorities in the Donosti itself, for example: Oh, my God, Pasta-Anchovy, underwear. Anyway, you've had to do that pharmacic project. And we do not only use the "faronic" in order to name this project as "EH Collectors": Ana Oregi himself, when he was chief of the planeting department, used it in January 2013. And in February 2013, in another proposition of the same nature as that of the Acts of the EH Collectation, which he had moved with EAJ, he said that this project was to be stopped, because he did not answer the necessities of motion. She didn't answer her movements. So, what interests are there behind the project? What do you need behind the project? We believe, on the one hand, that there are political interests, or rather divisional interests, in making this project, which has been introduced by PSE, especially because it seems to have restored the mayor of St. It must be said with EAJ's apothenian apolio, because he does not remember what he tried in 2013. There are also economic interests, urabanisic interests. The same move in 2005, because it is intended to repeat: There is a new tunnel made between Eukotren, Errodo, and Lugaritz, and in the sub-surrounded terreans 600 new housing is made in Morlans. Here, too, we want to build a tunnel, and in the brokers, Eison, we want to make 600 new homes in the middle of the most expensive city in the Basque Country. Besides, in comparison with this project in 2005, it's very different because technical requests are much larger. As we all know, they show it to you at the first stage of architecture, the whole expanse of the St. So he wasn't included inprejusto with bajada. We think this isn't serious. It seems to us that here the waste of public money may be in pursuit. And we ask you to decapitate yourself, Mr. Trees chief of the Arriolas.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u128	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u129	Mr Fernandez de Betoño, there is no known work of engineering or construction of great complexity that has not had any impact on its execution. And the project of the railway variant of Donostia-San Sebastián is a complex and large work. In order to minimize the impact of the route in a densely urban environment, only 127 metres of its route run on the surface. This involves an excavation of a total of 6.9 kilometers between the line tunnel, access to the stations, attack ramps, ventilation wells and elevators. At the moment 90% of this project has already been excavated and the problems located are in two points of its course. Mirakontxa-Easo, in a sector of just 400 meters, one of them is located in the basement of Easo Square, where the excavation found a soft permeable rock that requires consolidating the land that is over the future tunnel. And the other point is located in the excavation under the beach of the Concha. Discontinuities and a rock were detected that exposed a quality of microkarstic origin, origin, in turn, of leaks in the tunnel with sand drag, which was what affected a pillar of the Zubieta Street building. To deal with these unforeseen events involves carrying out new actions not included in the project, with a significant cost overrun, and consequently, in application of the contract law, ETS is working on the resolution of the contract of this section and on drawing up a reformed project incorporating the necessary technical options, guaranteeing in the meantime the continuity of the surface work and the safety of the underground work. I have told you that there are clear responsibilities when it is considered that there have been negligence and unforeseeability and that this was not the case, in my view. Look, in the successive phases of the railway variant project, we have worked with the information of 105 surveys and 41 geophysics profiles. Of these, 35 surveys and 16 profiles, 33% of the total, correspond to the area that remains unexcavated where the work is stopped. You are an architect and I suppose you know that there are details that escape the most scrupulous calculations, and also that it is not the same to conduct surveys on an open ground as in the basement of a densely built city. It seems like you're more concerned about looking for guilty assumptions than looking for solutions. Our department and Euskal Trenbide Sarea are for the second, to conclude this important project as soon as possible with maximum security and with minimal discomfort to the citizenship of Donostia-San Sebastián. By the way, I remind you that in 2015, when your group was at the head of the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council, it stopped the work and terminated the contract for the Antzuola-Bergara section of the Deskarga motorway, due to geological problems and also due to considerable cost overruns. So they debugged responsibilities? Tips I sell, which I don't have.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u130	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Ask me, Laura Garrido Knörr Euscal, Popular Group-Ciudad's parliamentary members for the health department, the "Rarda Covid." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Head of health. Well, my first question will be about a subject of today: It's about the "Radard Covid." "Radar Covid" is an application for mobile phones designed jointly by the Ministry of Economics' Department of Digitalisation and Artificial Intelligence and the health systems of the different autonomous communities. It is a useful tool for the detection of COVID, because it allows to show the level of exposure to the virus and, in this sense, to report the risk of contagion, and also to communicate if it has been positive in coronavirus after a PCR. This tracking app, therefore, is shown to be an effective, fast and useful tool for Basque citizens, but the surprise for all of us is that this tool has arrived late in its implementation in other autonomous communities, and it seems to be, as various authorized spokespersons of the department you run have said, that it has been due to technical and idiomatic problems. We have not been lucky or have not been lucky enough to have other autonomous communities, 14 autonomous communities that had to consider it a priority issue and made it available to citizens before we, even autonomous communities with two official languages, such as Galicia. It was first put into operation in Castile and León, Canary Islands, Murcia, Cantabria, Madrid, Andalusia, Aragon, Extremadura and Balearic Islands; on 4 September, in Galicia. The operation throughout the State was scheduled for 15 September, and by that time we already knew that in Euskadi because it could not be due to these idiomatic and technical complications, therefore, we ask you, counselor, from the Basque People-Citizens group, to make an assessment. It seems to have been operational since 26 September, but we do not have a strong confirmation on this issue either, and we would like you to assess the delay and to really inform us whether this application can be used. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u132	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u133	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature. The commissioning, in service, of the application "Radar Covid", designed to know if a user has been in contact with a positive of COVID, has led to an irregular rhythm in the different communities, has not been as homogeneous as described. Some announced the integration of the application at the end of August, and there are communities in which it has not yet been launched. In Euskadi the application "Radar Covid" has been fully operational since 22 September. The reason why it has been expected until that moment, precisely, to integrate the application with Osakidetza has been unique and exclusively technical, since, at all times, it has sought to ensure the safety of the users. To this day, the attention circuits are perfectly defined in case a user receives a notification indicating that he or she may have been in contact with a positive case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u135	Counselor, well, if so, and we have to believe in your word, for we congratulate you. It is true that it seems to have been installed with some delay with regard to the initial forecasts of 15 September. I'd like to know if you're giving or not giving trouble, because, well, I have news that some users are giving some trouble, and I'd like to know if you have confirmation in that sense that you may be taking trouble. And, if so, whether they're working it out or not. Because what it is about is, in the end, that this application works effectively because it has a utility that, as I said in my first exposure, is clear for the detection of the virus. I do not know whether they are technical reasons or not, I stick to what we heard at the time or read at the time, in addition, to authorized spokespersons of your department, which were technical and idiomatic reasons. I, as a Basque citizen, therefore, would have liked to have been available on the scheduled date, and if the obstacle were the idiomatic issues, I understand that this issue would have been foreseen earlier, that is, that, by having an added difficulty with respect to other autonomous communities in having to translate this application, because I would have foreseen it well in advance, so that this application would have been in date and time ready for use by all Basque citizens. I understand the difficulties of this application, but I imagine that those security reasons that you have pointed out have also been able to have other autonomous communities, which seem to have run more this time than we have. I hope it's working and it's working well. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u136	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u137	Indeed, Mrs Garrido, we agree that any tool that assists in the tracking and tracking of cases is welcome, these and others may be. But it should also be remembered that this is not the first time that a tool of these characteristics has been used in Euskadi, because already in April the application COVID-19.eus was launched, of great usefulness in the hardest moments of the pandemic. This application, which has more than 100,000 downloads, is allowing today to monitor the health status of users and solve their doubts. But, in any case, with regard to the "Radar Covid" tool, I mean that it now depends on the will of the citizen. We must not forget that this application, as it was the previous one, is of a voluntary nature. We do not yet have the number of downloads of "Radar Covid" because it is a data that manages the ministry, as it did with the technical characteristics and the technical definition of the tool. What we can tell you is that the codes sent to the positives since last September 22nd exceed 3,000, proactively from Osakidetza, sent to all and all people with positive results. Of those 3,000, the number of alerts received for "Radar Covid" care and valued has been 24, and the number of people confined by "Radar Covid" has been three. In any case, I would like to say that none of these applications have replaced, nor will they replace, the work of tracking and tracing cases and contacts. A work dedicated exclusively to more than 330 professionals, to which must be added other services of Osakidetza, such as Preventive Medicine, Labor Health, the units of Epidemiological Surveillance, Osalan or the services of Prevention of Labor Risks, in total, about 600 people, which places us within the parameters established by the WHO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The twentieth point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, Madia Martín, the Greylese of Misto, members of the Mist Group, to the head of the Medical Department, to prevent people from being infected by the other autonomys. " Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u139	Good morning. We live with concern the evolution of the second wave of COVID-19 infections in the Basque Country, and also in the country as a whole, with rates per 100,000 inhabitants that place us at the head of Europe in incidences for this disease. In Spain, the necessary transit of people translates into an exchange of viruses between those living in one province or another, without establishing the necessary mechanisms of collaboration and control to stop the contagion and break the chain of contagion. Therefore, I would like to refer the following question to the Basque Health Adviser, Mrs Sagardui: how does the Health Adviser plan to control COVID-19 infections caused by the transit of people between provinces and between autonomous communities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u140	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u141	Mr. President, members of the legislature, once more, a farewell. As you well know, Mrs Martínez, in the current situation, except in the specific confinements due to major outbreaks, the mobility of people between peoples, territories or communities is not restricted. So the strategy is the same as for society as a whole: prevention, tracing, diagnosis and care, and, above all, prudence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u143	Mrs Sagardui, "the Basque Government is willing to coordinate, but laying down the measures here". Revealing statement by Mr Urkullu, who sets out the priorities of this government in dealing with the crisis of the coronavirus. First of all, independent. The solution of all evils: self-government. But no, Mrs Sagardui, this issue that so much worries so many people, that so much damage is being done to people and to the social model itself, is not resolved with more self-government; moreover, the best management is the centralization of health skills and ending this dispute between autonomous communities and also of communities with the central government. The health crisis that we suffer has certified the failure of the autonomic model. There is no doubt that this model has not effectively met such a challenge. It's undeniable that it's been one more stumbling block, one of the most important. In fact, this model has resulted in an almost constant dispute between autonomous leaders, autonomy and central government: to see who is the most handsome, the tallest, the strongest, to see who is the most restrictive, always the most restrictive, never dispute the honor of being the most sensible, the most coherent, the most responsible and the most effective. Disparate measures that, if they share something in the vast majority of communities and in the central Government itself, are never endorsed by experts. Those people to whom the decision is attributed, to whom it is neither seen nor usually heard, because in reality they are not, are just an excuse, a non-existent entity. Political decisions for political interests, and I refer to the evidence. In this government, everyone was stressed by knowing the proposal for an agreement that Minister Illa was going to take to the Interterritorial Council. No one seemed to be concerned about how the proposed measures would affect citizens, whether or not they would contribute to curbing the pandemic. The Lehendakari Urkullu and his vice-Lehendakari, Mr Erkoreka, named his main concern: it was an attack on the Basque self-government. They're both defending doing it here. But things are not right, they are not in the Basque Country, nor in Navarre, La Rioja, Burgos or Madrid. The problem is that in the places where you work there are a large number of Basques, places where many of the people who work here also reside, so there is a great movement. This crisis requires scientific rigour, very sensible, which is lacking in his Government and in that of his partner Sánchez. So much so that people on the street start to fear you more than the virus itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u144	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u145	Mrs Martínez, the Basque Government has a strategy and that strategy, within the Bizi Berri Plan, is to aim to develop a new normality in which there are no restrictions of movement, work and educational activities can be developed, cases of COVID-19 are diagnosed early and close contacts are isolated. That is, living with the virus in the best possible way. The ultimate goal is for our health system to deal, without difficulty, with the number of cases that occur and in the coming months we can live with the virus in the best possible way. In this sense, Euskadi successfully detects a large proportion of cases, and it is shown by indicators such as the positive CRP rate, which remains below 5% in recent days. Similarly, the number of PCRs carried out, some 5,000 a day, contributes to the detection of community cases, thanks to a significant economic effort by the Government and the personal effort of thousands of health care professionals. That's objective data, and that's science-backed data. Primary care quickly treats and diagnoses cases with COVID-compatible symptoms. The tracking network shall carry out its work without delay. The ability to manage our own health skills and resources, from the closeness and knowledge of our reality, together with the behaviour of Basque society, is what are allowing us to maintain a stable evolution over the last few weeks. But we do not forget that COVID is among us, and it has shown that it knows no borders. We must not put the focus of risk out. That is why we have always relied on our management capacity, but in a coordinated and supportive way between territories and communities. And I think that was demonstrated at last Wednesday's interinstitutional meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "Interregation, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, the Esquillia Populara-Ciudadans, a member of the society of the Common-wealth of Equality, Justice, and Society, concerning the state of Euskicus courts." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u147	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Basque Government who are already here this morning, this afternoon. First of all, Commissioner, Mrs Artolazabal, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment as Commissioner for Equality, Justice and Social Policy. Congratulations on your appointment, which also has another set of responsibilities that you have already exercised in the local administration and in the autonomous administration. Secondly, a curiosity of mine, almost personal, which is somewhat my surprise at the inclusion of the area of Justice in the Council of Equality and Social Policies. Man, it is true that it is a lehendakari's competence to make the distribution of departments and the allocation of the various areas and tasks in the Government. What happens is that, man, I believe that logic and, perhaps, I know, a conception of the Administration that sought maximum efficiency, maximum excellence, because, perhaps, I would have advised, I don't know, by putting an idea, the inclusion in the Council of Public Administrations that, well, the one we have equivalent is called the Council of Public Governance and Self-Government. I mean, just like that. This is a political criterion. But I was surprised by the detail that the Justice area is in the area of... maybe you were surprised, too, I don't know, then you can tell us. But, anyway, that's the distribution that there is and that's what we all have to work with and about that, which we will also be working on. Well, counselor, I am asking you today about the situation of the courts in Euskadi. An effective and efficient administration of justice, which resolves citizens' disputes, is, as the former French builders said, the key to the vault of the constitutional system and the rule of law. The Administration of Justice has different members and components, as you all know, some are the judges, magistrates and prosecutors—lettered to the service of the Administration of Justice, who are the former secretaries—and then there are also the officers, the agents and so on. In any event, the competence for the provision of material and personal resources for the Administration of Justice is part of the powers assigned to it by the Autonomous Community and is therefore part of the powers and obligations of the Basque Government. The successive Basque governments, the successive governments of our community are destined for very important amounts, as you know, in what has been called "the processes of modernization of the administration of justice", as you certainly know, because you are a person who takes time in the public administration and in high offices. I have taken a look at the budgets, which, by the way, are a little outdated on the websites. In Irekia the latest data that is published, I think it is only 2018, and, according to that data, the current budget in the area of Justice amounts to about 138 million euros – that was in 2018, at least – discounting the almost 100 million euros of Chapter I, – as you know, are the staff costs, high offices, etc. – discounting another series of items, in what would be called the specific modernization in the Administration of Justice Therefore, you will have better data, but, in the end, all this is simply to tell you that we have a consolidated area in government, the area of justice, which is sometimes changing, it seems, from some councils to others – it has been your turn – with a significant expense to ensure that judges, judges, prosecutors and lawyers, on both sides, lawyers at the service of the administration and also lawyers who defend the justiciable, can guarantee that access to justice for all, for citizens and businesses. That is the situation, that is the context, rather. What is the situation today in Euskadi? Look, counselor, I, from what I'm told – they come to see me, I see, I read, too, and I've almost experienced it – the truth is that at the moment the courts are experiencing a very delicate situation, which I would call a collapse, that is, a collapse in the sense that they are not able to give way to the issues that come before them and that they are not able to catch up on many issues that are accumulated. In recent months, according to various media, among others, ETB, up to 8,000 cases have been postponed, apart from what could already be in the cargo and so on. There are many issues, therefore, that are paralyzed or procedures that are in limbo. I'm talking about very important matters, that is, I'm not just talking about matters that are tremendously important, commercial, civil... I am also talking about criminal matters, preventive prisons, protection orders, including issues of gender-based violence. In other words, all social life depends on whether the courts are able to release and give a solution to the burden they have at the moment. Why are we in this situation? What's the reason we're in this situation? There are two main reasons, in my opinion; then I would like to know a little what yours is. Of the first, obviously, you cannot be blamed, the COVID, the pandemic. Obviously, counselor, I'm not going to hold you responsible for COVID, it was just missing, but, man, it is true that your department has and will have responsibility for post-COVID management. On the second issue I believe that there is a responsibility, in the sense that they have to explain the functioning of public services: it is the way in which competition in justice is managed, in a department, in an area, in this case, which is already consolidated in a government and in an autonomous community for a very long time. It is not just a problem of this autonomous community, as you surely know, and you will know, and will also be told by advisors in this area, Mrs Artolazabal. Such situations exist in many autonomous communities. There are some who are better than others – there is also to say – who have been better able to do so. But the truth is that the lack of digitisation – the delay, I would say – and the lack of interconnection, because it is very important that the interconnection between procedural management systems, causes significant costs in the administration, hinders the work of all staff around the administration of justice and affects citizens and businesses. And this is something we are particularly concerned about and should be concerned about. In Euskadi, lawyers and justice staff have to live with Justiziabat, Justiziasip, which is the autonomous system, which has been developed for a long time and with very important resources, and with Lexnet, which is the one they have brought out in the ministry within the Minerva macroprogramme, as they know. In addition to the access problems that these applications usually pose, I know that there are lawyers in the House who have used them and know the difficulty of the systems many times, that we hit the button to validate the digital certificate. By the way, we have a digital certificate of our own. You could use the DNI, but we have one of our own, which is Izenpe, great, another digital certificate, which obviously makes us have to establish interconnection protocols. As I said, in Spain, not only in Euskadi, there are up to ten different judicial records management systems. And this situation means that, overall, in this country, in Spain, up to ten times has been paid for the same service. We've done it here too. It is true that Euskadi began a little earlier than the central government began. What happens is that, man, I think it's time that the administrations also understand each other, that you get to a point, and that this doesn't make what's fundamental difficult. Competition is not competition with a sense of heritage, as I sometimes hear from the bench that traditionally supports his Government, but competition is the exercise of a public service in the most efficient, efficient and, of course, with criteria of excellence. Returning to the situation in Euskadi – and I am now ending – to this unsettling situation in which the Administration of Justice, which came from before the COVID, is often found, joins a more than certain risk, as you know, counselor – I can tell you your partner in the chair, who has recently abandoned us – that there are situations in the future, if not of confinement, of possible limitation of a certain freedom of movement. And, man, this makes us have to be prepared. That is why, Commissioner, I am sincerely asking you today, and I hope that we will be successful in managing this issue. And I ask you a question you already know. This Member of Parliament introduces you to the question. And it is as follows: What does your department intend to do, Counsellor, and what measures do you intend to take to correct this situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u148	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u149	Chief of Parliament, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days, good noon, better. Well, I, first of all, Mr Gordillo, welcome you to this Parliament. I am sure that in this legislature we will have the opportunity to discuss and exchange views. And, besides, I hope to reach many agreements with you. As for the structure of the department, this is a power that the lehendakari has. And, as you have rightly said, it also depends on the objectives that the Government has. And we sincerely believe that it is the best structure that we can equip ourselves with in the lines of equality, justice and social policies, with the objectives that this Government has to achieve and achieve a more just, supportive and inclusive society, and cross-cutting in the field of its policies. Going to the matter before us, your inquiry is based on a diagnosis that we do not share, because that situation, that statement that you have said that there is a situation of collapse in the courts is not true, from our point of view. There are complicated situations, which have been occurring for a long time and which, moreover, the situation with COVID has been able to worsen. But there is no situation of collapse. We have also shared these reflections with the judiciary, judges and lawyers, and that situation does not exist. There are other concerns that you have put on the table, such as the modernisation and digitisation of the judicial system in Euskadi, but we believe we are doing things, we have already been doing things. The different governments have been concerned about resolving these issues, and I believe that we have a challenge that we have to take up among all of us in order to be able to deliver a justice that is truly just and truly justice. As it could not be otherwise, we have had to adapt to the situations to which we have had to face. We have had to adapt jurisdictional activity to the exceptional measures that from all areas of competence we have had to put on the table to address this pandemic situation. The stated measures had a common objective: to preserve the health of people, both those involved in the administration of justice, and of citizens forced to go to the palaces of justice. These measures have involved a great effort of coordination between administrations and the generous collaboration of all the people who make up the world of justice. During the past state of alarm there was a stoppage of proceedings and procedural deadlines, except those which were declared essential. This has meant that, upon resumption of activity, there is an accumulation of pending and new cases. In addition, before the pandemic, there were judicial bodies with overflowing litigation in some jurisdiction, which I recognize. The socio-economic consequences of this crisis may also increase the activity of the courts, especially in the social sphere. And the recovery of the ordinary activity of the courts and tribunals implies facing these difficulties, but neither is there at present the situation that describes the interpellation, nor could difficulties be attributed to the lack of sightings in the afternoons. Therefore, Mr Gordillo, although the situation is complex, I think it is not as you have described it. In recent months, despite the restrictions generated by the pandemic, efforts have been made to respond to the operating needs of judicial bodies with the people and means available, whether morning or evening. The possibility of pointing out afternoon views requires the availability of assistance staff at such times, and this availability should be covered by the time forecasts set out in the Organic Law of the Judiciary and in the agreements regulating the working conditions of the staff. Decree-Law 16/2020 of 28 April enabled the administrations to set up morning and late working days under certain conditions. According to the statement of reasons in the Decree-Law, this measure provided for the possibility of providing service in a successive manner, thus avoiding the coincidence of all staff at the same time. The Order of the Ministry of Justice of 5 June 2020 for phase three provided for the establishment of such morning and afternoon days. I read: "When it is not possible to guarantee the maintenance of security measures for the performance of the job-specific functions simultaneously by all staff members who have to go to the same centre". In other words, it was a measure of labour protection against COVID, rather than aimed at increasing judicial productivity. In addition, this possibility is only enabled until 20 September in the decree law, three months after the state of alarm has been completed. The Deputy Justice Adviser, Mikel Unzalu, by Resolution of 5 June 2020, has already arranged for the afternoon hearings by the Justice staff, providing for the mechanism for the hearings to be attended in the courts and in offices where there is no afternoon shift. Also, by resolutions of the Director of Administration of Justice of 25 June and 20 July this year, the bodies and offices that had established afternoons were determined. And, on 24 August, the Director of Administration of Justice, makes a decision concerning the holding of hearings on evenings during the months of September and October, in which it is recalled that the time limit for exceptional proceedings on evenings is in accordance with the authorization of the Decree Law of 20 September. The limited duration of the authorization granted by this Decree-Law made it difficult for staff to have access to evening views as of 20 September; we did not have that capacity because the Decree-Law did not provide for it. But, to date, the arbitrary measures have allowed the gradual recovery of judicial activity and the holding of hearings in the morning and afternoon hours. A few days ago, Law 3/2020 of 18 September on procedural and organizational measures to deal with COVID-19 in the field of administration was adopted. And this law has enabled us to establish the working days of tomorrow and afternoon for all the services and courts until 20 June 2021, after collective bargaining with trade union organizations and respecting, in any case, the measures of occupational safety and prevention of occupational risks. Therefore, appropriate measures will be taken to continue to enable afternoon proceedings, either by setting morning and afternoon hours for certain courts or offices, after collective bargaining, or by also setting up mechanisms to deal with afternoon proceedings in courts or in offices that do not have such days. In any case, the issue of late remarks is not the solution to all the problems faced by the Basque courts; it is another measure proposed for the full recovery of jurisdictional activity. This measure also concerns other professional groups involved in this field: the judiciary, lawyers of the Administration and other personnel of Justice, prosecution, lawyers, prosecutors... That is why we have to work in a coordinated way with them. To deal with the recovery of jurisdictional activity, various measures have been taken to date in all the institutions involved: by the State Government, by the Ministry of Justice, by the General Council of the Judiciary and also by the Government Chamber of the High Court of Justice. In addition to the measures relating to the organization of the days and assistance in the evening activities, measures such as a web-based pre-date system have been authorized in the Basque Republic to serve the citizens and the professionals of the justice system in the palaces of justice. And this measure has helped to securely organize public attention, avoiding unnecessary agglomerations or access to dependencies. Remote secure connection systems have also been put in place, which have enabled lawyers from the Administration of Justice, as well as judges, judges and prosecutors, to access their procedural management applications and file information. The health and safety measures required by the health authorities in each and every judicial area have also been extended. Additional computer equipment has also been and will be provided to judicial bodies to facilitate meetings. A new multimedia system for recording rooms and views and videoconferencing services has been launched, and work is under way on the development of the Telelana project, with the aim of having that job and having mobility with all the necessary security guarantees that, as you said, have to have the situations and issues that arise in the field of justice. Work is also under way on the implementation of a new shift management system in public service for civil registry offices in the Basque capitals, and progress is being made on the updating of the Justisip platform allowing telematic communication between professionals and judicial bodies. Interoperability is also being promoted, and I fully agree with you that everything that has to do with interoperability, modernization, digitisation needs to be improved. As you can see, Mr Gordillo, there are an important number of initiatives launched to improve the performance of the Basque courts. We still have a challenge ahead. Throughout the legislature we will be implementing and counting, with your support and with your initiatives in order to achieve the objectives.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs Artolazabal, for these explanations you have brought us to the House today. Well, as far as the first issue, subscribing, we have already debated in this House a lot of time on other subscribing issues, the issue of Emakunde and so on... Each has also raised its position, it is a power of the lehendakari. But, man, you cheat on the meaning of words. I mean, one thing is the value of justice. You said the measures you have put forward and that you do not like the word "collapse". Man, of course, the word "collapse" might sound bad to you because it's a negative press headline, which I understand. But because of the things he said to me at the end, which surely helped him to prepare them a little, it can be seen that the person who searched for them also found the pages that I found, where these topics were discussed. Nor do I say this: statements by the president of one of these associations of judges and judges spoke about this situation and talked about this type of issue. I also tell you in good faith and with good will. I mean, we want the Justice Administration to work. We really want to have the best administration for the citizens and we want to have the most efficient administration, and we sincerely believe that the administration of justice is indeed the fundamental point on which the rest of the administrations that serve the citizens then turn. Therefore, having an efficient Justice Administration is so important. What happens is that, without prejudice to the fact that we continue this debate then, if you wish, in committee, when you have the opportunity to make the presentation of your programme with your team, the important thing of the competences – I repeat, because the issue of competences is going to come out in this legislature and there are some competences that are pending – is that in a state they are well coordinated so that there are no overlaps, no cost and, above all, better service is given to the citizen. After all the years we have been exercising this competition in Euskadi, what changes for the citizen, for the person? How has your life improved that competition is exercised by the ministry or that competition is exercised by the councillor x of the Basque Government? Well, man, it's the Basque government that appoints the senior officials responsible, directors in their case, deputy councillors... I can add, by the way, my partner spoke about it the other day too, the subject of linguistic demand, of Basque, for example, in the process of staff selection... But then what happens is that, after all the money we've invested, spending public money, investing in the modernization of systems, still, today, the truth is that it's been a little complicated, a chimera, talking about something like telematic judgments, which you couldn't have had here. They could have been in other communities, you sure know. There are other communities that have been able to have telematic trials. You will surely have better information and you will be able to share it with us, but I do not think it has been possible to do so here. That's why I think it's important. You, among the measures you have been citing, have said one: that they have been implemented, that remote secure connection systems have been created. Man, please, is this has been for 20 years, practically, since you started in the public sector was already this from the remote systems. Man, this is too old already. Of course there has to be. What really needs to be done is a system that really ensures that there are, in fact, coordinated processes. I don't mean coordinated uniforms. Counselor, you were telling me that you hope to have initiatives and support. For my part, from our group, he's going to have them. Obviously, he's going to have them, and we're open to discussing everything that's reasonable and everything that's better. But, counselor, I think all this starts by diagnosing the problem well – nothing happens –: the situation in the courts is bad, it is bad. It's not good, it's bad. What do you want? I don't like collapse, another word... Well, the situation is bad. And anyone who works in the courts you ask will tell you, because digitization is a chimera, there is no authentic digitization, as you have said very well. The marking of judgments in the afternoon that has begun to be done now, with all those measures that have reminded us, for it has relieved a little bit, but it comes out less than what enters. That's true. That's why I think the important thing is to diagnose the problem well and, once diagnosed, from there we can all work together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u152	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u153	Thanks again, ma'am. I don't cheat, Mr. Gordillo, either you haven't understood me well or I haven't explained myself well. I know how to distinguish perfectly what social justice is from what justice or the administration of justice is. And what I wanted to say to you is that, depending on the objectives a government has, the structure is focused on achieving them. And this government has as its objectives that Euskadi be an increasingly just, more supportive and more inclusive society, and we believe that with the structure we have designed we will achieve it better. As far as competences are concerned, I would like to say that the development by Euskadi, in this particular case, of the competences it has transferred, has generated and provided greater welfare for Basque citizens and that we will therefore continue to request those competences which are contained in the Statute of Gernika – which is not yet fulfilled – and which benefit all the citizens we live in this country. We are aware, as you said, of the complex reality we have – of the present and the future – but we are also aware that we have to continue working and moving forward. And the coalition agreement signed for the formation of this Basque Government is one of the measures to be taken to draw up an action plan for the reactivation of judicial activity, because, indeed, we are aware that we have to make progress in that regard. We need to improve, because the quality of the services we provide is very important to us too. We've been doing it, it's not new. This plan, in order to be effective, will require realistic measures and respect for the competences of the courts. Because, for us, working with people who are actually working on a day-to-day basis is fundamental, and in this particular case of the Justice Administration, we have various interlocutors with whom we have to work. This plan must involve all relevant elements in its preparation and, in particular, the Commission for the Follow-up of the COVID-19 measures of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. As in other districts, even in the sphere of justice, the re-establishment of pandemies and jurisdictions obliges him to this challenge, and this challenge may be an incentive to modify this public service with decision. It is also possible to penetrate from a new view, digitalization. That's why it's bound to admit an strategic plan of justice in our government. This plan will assign more rapid, more efficient, and more digital justice to the person on the axis. And I want to remark that there is also an engagement to accept a new plan of digital justice. Our principal object is: To acquire the integral digitalization of courts and courts, to finish the legal file, to develop digital information through the electronic court housing, and to induce performances by video interference. As in other areas, also in the field of justice, the challenge facing the pandemic and the recovery of jurisdictional activity can be an incentive to resolutely tackle the modernisation of this public service. An opportunity also to deepen its digitalization. For this reason, the government agreement has, and will be approved, a strategic justice plan. This plan will set the parameters for building a more agile, more effective and digitized justice that is people-centred. And I would also like to stress to you that there is a commitment to adopt a digital justice plan. Our key objectives are: to achieve the comprehensive digitization of courts and tribunals, to complete the electronic judicial record, to develop digital procedures through the electronic judicial headquarters and to promote actions through videoconferencing. And we already have a long way to go, Mr. Gordillo. I would like to point out to you that the appointments of my team have been published today, but that, despite everything, the new team of the Vice-Counsel has already met and is already working. We have held meetings with the dean judges of the three territories, coordinating secretaries and presidents of the three provincial hearings, as well as with the chief prosecutor of the Basque Country. And we're going to keep working as a team. We will promote dialogue between all the bodies involved, and in particular with the governing bodies of the High Court of Justice and the Office of the Prosecutor. Soon we will have the appearance, and in that appearance we will put the strategic lines on the table. I trust, then, that I will be able to detail more extensively what our initiatives are. But we do have a challenge, the challenge of justice in Euskadi being more just.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Second point on the subject list: "Ask me, Josu Estarrona Elizndo, member of the Society of the Cultural and the Chief of Political Language, in culture and cult industry, about the measures of the COVID-19. " Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u155	Thank you, Mr. President. And good noon already, all of you. From the community's initiative, the thirst for euccatarias, creators, and culturers, hunger, dreams, and desires have been satisfied for the last 16 years. Together with the feeling of loss, each of them will hide the most cherished moments of his life in his heart. The void that leaves Euskal to culture won't be easy to fill. Thank you for the plates. And, Mr. Zupiria, we somehow warned you about what happened with the plates, on May 15th, when we were in the state of alarm, during the continued march, here at the scene you made in this Chamber. We warned you that the conditions of the sector in general are defective, and that the situation of crisis, being highly vulnerable, would almost leave so many cultured projects and projects to disappear. And then we also told you that we needed an integral impact plan and that we had to design a career page for the situation, created in a collective way and shared. But you didn't want to do it that way, and you started all the help you designed and you made decisions without hiring and agreeing with the sector. I read you "Me gstaría mi tempo a los haectes y las acciones, y no a la pollítiviva" in a conversation you recently made as a new spokesman. And I, too, would rather, and therefore I will make use of this time. But I think it's important also to observe their results. So hechos, acciones yperados. You have increased the economic departure in a very, very limited way in five lines of aid already existing in publishing, illustration, plastic arts, film production and cataloguing and digitization. Six months after the start of the pandemic, zero euros. They're not resolved today. This very morning the Lehendakari itself has set as an example the 2 million aid to SMEs in the cultural sector. He gave the figures for the 77 applications submitted, but what he did not say was that they were not resolved either. I mean, zero euros today too. But let's go further and do a very unrealistic exercise, with a hypothetical favorable resolution of the 77 applications with the maximum amount set out in them of 10,000 euros. Not even 40% of the budgeted would be implemented. So it looks like something's not working. And over the famous two and a half million, the draw mechanism was established by which the Basque Government itself predicted that there would be an avalanche of applications, and that was not the case. We have already warned you that the conditions and requirements set were wrong and left many people out, as has been shown and is being demonstrated. Even so, today morning the lehendakari has also set it as an example of actions being taken to address the consequences of the pandemic crisis. And it has given the figure of the 312 resolutions on the 330 applications submitted, but what it has again not said is that of those 330 applications only 100 have been resolved favourably and more than 200 have been rejected, assuming a budget execution of these aids, to date, of 223,000 euros in total over the 2 1/2 million envisaged. That is to say, it does not reach 9% of the aid you have designed for the cultural sector as a result of the stoppage in the pandemic. "Estos son sleepos, tus son las acciones y estos son sos falla." Do whatever you do, actions and results. So, looking at the results, Chief Zupiria, we're asking you today if he thinks he's invented the sizes for the culture sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u156	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u157	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, Mr. Estarrona, good day. I'm not exactly who we've invented, and I can't be happy to see how many economic activities in our country, which concern culture, are hard and serious. And I'm not going to think about it either, and I'll tell you what I've done. First of all, we've had a constant relationship with the representatives of organization and culture to guide us. Hence it was possible, among others, that from one of June to another there should be certain habits of culture in our autonomy position. Second, we created a counsel. The 560 queries have been received until September 22, and they're answered. And the degree of satisfaction is averaged from 5 to 3.5. Third, by Euskal Watchery, we've followed the effect of COVID-19 in the culture sector. The second quarter of the year has been a serious decline of activity, especially during public concerts. Second Year (Sic) Fourthly, we've taken special measures. One, an extraordinary calling of scholarship directed to the professionals of culture, was managed by profession. The initial budget, 2 million and a half euros, the demands received, 330; approved 100; overdated money, 427.000 euros. Most of them have been charged with aids which were incompatible with this appeal, most of which were connected with the interruption of the state's activities. That was the way it was and that's how we decided to do it. Second, a contribution to the micropyms of culture and the societies of culture. The budget, 2 million, petitions, 77. The amount will not be exhausted and the superfluous will be used for other options. Three scholarships to the organization and corporation activity of the Esscal creators and culture. One, directed to the sector of booking, a call of 900,000. 191 libraries have requested. Two, we've driven 105,000 euros for the purchase of the work in the illustration, 20 artists have been asked for a job. We've activated a fund of 3, 240,000 euros to promote a brief eight-vised project: 30 projects have been introduced. Four, we've planned 150,000 euros for the purchase of the corporate art of euscals. Five, the karates published in Euskadin, digitalized, and explored by 50,000 euros have been used through Eresbul. In addition to my friends who were too much on the move from our section, protection from the finance line created by fun and Community: 284 cultural companies, all of them, have been funding 16 million euros. 6614 workers in the culture world have been exposed to the influence of an ERITE from which, almost three-quarters have already returned to work. And we've filled all the calls we had in our culture suite. Our priority now is to restore spiritual activity with culture and other institutions. I received a letter from a group of theatres this week, and he told me that the team appreciates the effort of June and June, because he's encouraged the cult programming and that's why he's been a cult program in various countries this summer. From now on we'll be working on this line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u158	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. A third point in the subject list: "To ask the question, The Greys of Amaia Martín, a member of the Mistho Group, made to the chief physician of Tourism, commerce, and Comssamus, concerning the condition of night's leisure and guest." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u159	Good morning. The pandemic has significantly affected the situation of businesses related to night entertainment and hospitality. We know from the beginning of the pandemic that coronavirus is, by its highly contagious nature, a serious problem for those businesses in which there are meetings of unknown people. Thus, during the summer season, the possibility of taking the business out of the premises, the terraces, made it possible for the hotel to survive. However, the reality of our climate makes it impossible to think of the terraces as lifeguards of the hospitality during the autumn, winter and spring. What measures, regardless of the extent of the ERTs, have they valued to help this key sector in the Basque economy?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u160	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u161	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. Parlamentarians y parlamentarians, good noon to all. Mrs Martinez, first of all I want to tell you that people are the priority for me and this department. People whose health we want to ensure, people to whom we are going to help alleviate the effects of the pandemic on their economy and jobs. And I assure you, as a socialist and as a counselor, this is going to be my priority. I now answer my question, and indeed hospitality is a sector particularly affected by this crisis: 65% of the social security affiliates in the hospitality sector are now in some ERTE situation, whether for suspension or recovery. Therefore, the extension of ERTE and the complement of lower incomes, which this week has ratified the vice-lehendakari Idoia Mendia, are achievements of social dialogue and a basic tool for sustaining employment. Almost half of the beneficiaries of this supplement belong to my department. Mrs Martínez, I would like to stress that to achieve the success of the measures it is essential to listen and count on the sector, and that is what we are doing. From the first week we started a round of contacts with municipalities, parliaments, consumer associations, trade unions, chambers of commerce, with the sector of commerce, tourism and hospitality. The hospitality associations are facing a delicate situation. That is why we have strengthened the sector and want to strengthen its associative fabric. We have increased the nominative subsidies to the three hospitality associations by 265% in 2020. More than €400,000 to promote the advice and assistance of self-employed people and businesses. We are aware of the difficult situation of the hospitality sector and, in particular, of the nightlife. Establishments classified in groups 3 and 4 saw their activity bewildered in a very important way, affecting many locals in Euskadi. From the department he worked in collaboration with the municipalities, looking for alternatives so that they could develop their activity as an establishment classified in group 2. I am aware that this measure has limited effectiveness, but it is a step forward for the sector. Going by the hand of the hospitality has always been, is and will be the will of this department. In addition, I can tell you that this department launched the extraordinary COVID aid programme At the same time, another 15 million aid to self-employed persons has been set up since Lanbide, 60% of which also go to the areas of tourism, commerce and hospitality. Finally, this week we presented the bonds aimed at hospitality, catering and tourism, the result of a pioneering program with the consensus of all the institutions. The full programme will inject almost EUR 9 million into the market, which will mobilise at least EUR 26 million in common. Therefore, be sure that all those involved in hospitality will find in this advisor and in this department an interlocutor, a promoter of aid and resources that are in line with the effort they are all making. We're not going to leave anyone behind, and for that, we need to row all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u162	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u163	The more we analyze the problem, the more I believe that the pandemic disaster in Euskadi and in the rest of Spain has as its first cause the most spurious cause that can fit in the profession of politician, in the public service. We think it's pride, and we don't say it, says the New York Times New York Times: Aló Presidente Sindios United to the cowardice and desirousness of the leader of his party and president of Spain, Pedro Sánchez, they have not given a second to justify with scientific criteria why many of the restrictions suffered by the hospitality industry. Why that obsession with hospitality? It is profoundly unfair to close business with the argument of concentration of people, when there are similar problems in shopping centers, entrances and exits from schools, hospitals, where they do not work so hard to prevent the spread of the virus. His campaign of harassment and toppling of the hospitality has made people identify the bars as the culprits of the spread of the virus and, frankly, it is not true. Given their frontal attack on these business models, I invite you to generate objective criteria that serve as a reliable basis for hoteliers. We must help them to regain the trust of customers with subsidies to adapt the interior of their premises and, once the reforms have been made, to promote trust among citizens. Hospitality is the lung of our economy. Take care of her, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u164	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mrs Martínez, I am going to tell you and all the groups in this House, because it is my first participation in the plenary: I am very respectful of parliamentary work, I have been in my path and I intend to continue to be and, in particular, the work of parliamentary control, both with regard to control by Parliament through the initiatives or requests for information that we do, with which we will be as diligent and transparent as possible, and with regard to control in Parliament, which is the public debate that we are conducting today. And here everyone has to decide what role they want to play. I believe that, in my opinion, what citizens and the tourism and trade sectors expect in an exceptional situation is a constructive and serene debate. I have explained the measures and everything we are doing and you have come to read a paper that I had written without reflecting what I have told you. Well, I simply tell you that for a peaceful and constructive debate, I am to be counted on; for other kinds of debates or games, don't wait for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-02.u166	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and fifty-six in the afternoon.
