ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the subject list, I remember that 32 lords and ladies have inherited the vote. I also inform you that the sixth point on the subject has been left for another purpose. First point in theme list: "To appoint members of the Council of Memory, Collaboration, and Human Rights. Discipline and final resolution. We'll open our turn to receive parlament groups, with article 234.6 of the Chamber Ruler. Anybody want to take the word? Yeah? No, right? Well, according to the medical reports approved by the table, this vote will be made in e-mail instead of a card. However, considering other precedents and no alternative candidates, I propose to make the nomination without vote. Do any members of the legislature have any problems? No, right? So, Mr. Carmelo Barroja, Mrs. Mymosagu Gumuzius, Mr. Jule of Jule's Arzuga Gumuzius, Mrs. Mien Galástezábal and Mr. Andre Bara, Irábara, the manager of the Society of Life and Human Rights, are appointed members of the Council. Second point on the subject list: "The controversy and the final resolution concerning the mutual observation of these laws: "Essulka Popular Group-Ciudadan's parliamentary bill of law to change the 1/1988 law of the New Accounts Court, and EH Collect a parliamentary bill of law, which changes the 1/1988 Law of the Basque Office of the People." From other precedents, there will be a side shift and a counter shift divided in 30 minutes. You're in the documentation where you've been disoriented, so we'll start arguing without reading it. On the side shift, EHG, and... That's it. The rest have told me the vote, so in the turn of it, Mr. Gordillo has the word in the name of the popular Basque Group-Ciudadans. 15 minutes. And also for EH Collect, another 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u1	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, members of the Bureau, Lehendakari, members of the Government, good morning to all. We have tabled for the consideration of the Bureau and this plenary to take into consideration a proposal, a proposal for a law, amending the Basque Court of Public Accounts. In the previous parliamentary term, there were also proposals for amendments, mainly concerning the way in which the members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts are elected, and the proposal that we are presenting here today for consideration, in part, also assumes all the work that the previous paper did – it assumes, in the sense that we have taken it into account –. We have even introduced some of the amendments that other groups put forward in that speech, in that speech, because we believe that it is in favour of the main objective, which is to contribute to the independence and impartiality of this very important body in the management of public affairs and, in particular, of finance and public finances. The Basque Court of Public Accounts is certainly an important body, whereas, as an external control body, it has the fundamental objective of making a critical assessment of public management, carried out from a technical and objective perspective. The Basque Court of Public Accounts must support Parliament in its role of controlling the Executive. This exercise of the supervisory role must always strengthen transparency and accountability to all citizens, thus contributing to better action by the body itself and, above all, to better action by Parliament itself and the Government itself. Look, three are the fundamental criteria that inform this proposal of law that we present to you here. Three criteria: the first, the criterion of independence; the second, that of impartiality; and the third, that of transparency. With regard to the first criterion, perhaps, the most important thing of this is that this type of control body, which exists in our country, not only in Euskadi – in other autonomous communities, most of them also have external control bodies, in addition to the national court of accounts – it is necessary, in our opinion, and it is somewhat consolidated, not only...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u2	Fat yellow. Fat yellow, mesmerized, mask.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u3	Oh, sorry, the mask. You're right, Madam President. I'm sorry. He said it was important to bear in mind that all the reports of international bodies analysing the need for autonomy, independence and impartiality of these bodies emphasize a number of elements, which we have included in our proposal. In particular, it is very important that any kind of shadow of doubt about the links or possibilities of control by political parties or other power forces over the members of the Court of Auditors is always cleared up; in this case, the Basque Court of Public Accounts. There are many options for establishing an agency, an element of control, on public finances. There are countries in which only one person has traditionally been appointed; the prototypical case is, for example, Chile, where there is the figure of what is called the Comptroller General of the Republic, which, by the way, is the one who directly appoints all the officials in charge. There are other countries; for example, in Europe, systems of choice of collegiate bodies are often used, or are often used, in most cases, always through a procedure that guarantees maximum impartiality, with what are called hearings, which are called appearances of potential candidates, and always resorting to highly qualified majorities. All this in a process that is transparent. Not only does the work of the court have to be transparent, but also the work of appointing its members has to be transparent. That is why we have put forward this proposal, which essentially includes three points. Firstly, what we have proposed, what is proposed, is to modify the requirements to be eligible as a member of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. The term of office is specifically regulated, with the aim of avoiding, above all, what has been called the "swivel doors" and thus preserving their independence, impartiality and objectivity. As little is ugly, little is ugly – apart from the competences that people who are appointed to this type of office may have – whether they are people who have just become parliamentarians, members of an autonomous Governing Council, Members of Parliament, Senators or members of an out-of-state or a government of an out-of-state; at least, it is something that is ugly. Therefore, we understand that it is very convenient to send a clear message to the citizenry, in order to really guarantee independence and impartiality. Secondly, there is also a qualified majority, the increase, rather than the increase, in the qualified majority for the appointment of the members of the body, which would move from the absolute majority to the three fifths. In addition, it is also established..., this proposal does what it does is to assume other proposals that have been made by other groups in the past parliamentary term, and what this proposal seeks is that the Basque Court of Public Accounts should also assume control of the financial and economic activity of the Basque Parliament itself, and even increase control over associations and foundations that are linked to political parties. Finally, the proposal also attempts to introduce – and, above all, we believe that it does so satisfactorily – the criterion of transparency advertising, which is so important in the management of public affairs today. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting today in favour of taking into account this proposal for a law amending the Basque Court of Public Accounts, to place it again in a place that has never had to abandon any kind of control body over public accounts, which is that of maximum independence, of maximum impartiality and of maximum transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u4	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mr. Estarrona, representing the EH team, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u5	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. And good morning, everybody. Good morning, everyone. I shall be briefly discussing the cause and purpose of the law, which has been introduced and which is supposed to be admitted to the tramit, and not so much in the possession of it as in the possession of it. We'll have time, we'll have time to talk about it when the power is once formed, and then Mr. Gordillo has advanced some of the contents we're going to perform. First of all, I think it's important to have a clear idea of the origin of the legal proposition, and why EH Billa had proposed it five years ago, because it somehow explains why the change of the 1/1988 law on February 5th of the Home Office of Accountes had been made, what had caused it to be altered. And in this case, if Mr. Gordillo hasn't told you, he has a full name, Mr. José Luis Bilbao, who, in the month of March 2015, had passed from office of power in the July of 2015 to the president of the Basque Peoples' Court of Accounts. Oh, shit! In fact, he was still appointed a member of the Basque Court of the People's Accounts Department. In the law it is defined as the second sphere of prosecution, and the institutions and public social societies of historical territory and of the forum and of their dependent institutions are defined. How, then, can it be possible that for 12 years he who has been head-at-arms has been the head of this institution, under control of the aldudia, the accounts, and their corporations, and that he must be the head of an independent tribunal which must be administered from one day to another? And, moreover, I think it is important to remember this, in the case of Mr Bilbao, with the letter of presentation of his farewell speech; it is another addition, but I think it is important to take it into account and into consideration. And he said: "To the absent and to the present: you can be calm, because I will never write my memories, memories in which people could appear with their greatness and their misery." I've seen people pay "with bank notes without proving their origin" and have seen them repatriate "money of unknown origin"... President of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. But, regardless of this, which has its gravity, how is it possible, as I said in Basque, that being the most responsible of an institution such as the Foral Diputación de Bizkaia and its public entities and enterprises, how is it possible that it will pass from night to morning to be the president of a court that has to monitor and control the expenses incurred, the investments made and the payments made by that institution? It is simply possible because the law permits it, but allowing it does not mean that it is right; in fact, this kind of action undermines the credibility of the institution itself. We and we, at least, believe this and, therefore, we put forward this bill five years ago, and we do so again now so that history will not be repeated again, because next year, probably in the first half of this 2021, the mandate of its members will be exhausted and the renewal of the Basque Court of Public Accounts will be carried out; therefore, we must get to work and consider, at least from our group, that this paper should be created with a certain speed, so that we do not repeat what happened five years ago and that we can arrive in time for this new appointment of the people who make up the new Basque Court of Public Accounts to be carried out on the basis of other criteria. And, moreover, we believe – and we say this honestly – that we must do so sincerely, with a broad perspective and with the utmost transparency and objectivity, from Parliament, yes, and with parliamentary control as well, but away from party interests. It cannot be that the appointment of the next president of the Basque Court of Public Accounts becomes a change of pace, an exchange of posts for one or the other, because I repeat again: we cannot repeat what happened last time and here we enter into how, how did this appointment happen the other time? We negotiate here who is going to be the Ararteko and who is his deputy, one for you and one for me. In the Basque Court of Public Accounts, for you the presidency, but to me, which is my responsibility, we take one from EH Bildu and give me two. We launch the Institute of Memory, also, as a counter-performance to these appointments, and in addition, we put in the pack the appointment of the Director General of EITB... Please, please, we believe that these things undermine the credibility of institutions and the political class vis-à-vis society. That can't happen anymore. This mode of acting is quite improper, and, although it is common to some parties, it is not natural; it is not normal, and, less, not proper. We can't accept it if it is. Society requires more and more firmness, perfect transparency, and a transparent management of money. And in this sense, and in answer to it, we have presented it, and have brought this proposal to Tramit to reform the Basque Court of the People. For these modes of proceeding to the dignity of a people we desire to build, and to live, have no place. It is the necessity of a democratic conversion which we have already advanced, and which we shall continue to present. Let's not consider it normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u6	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Ez dago erreplikarik. Kontrako txandan, did anyone want to intervene in the turn against? There's no replica... Ez, ez, ez dago, i.e., there's a turn for and a turn against. If you don't participate in the turn against, there's no turn back, huh? That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u7	Well, as you say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u8	Well, if the discussion's over, we'll vote for the popular Euskal Group-Ciudadnos-whether the legal proposition is considered or not. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 74; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0, 0; 0,0, 0; 0,0,0,0; 0,0,0; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u9	So he's unanimously considered it. Whether the law-propositation of the EHG is paid to vote or not. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters are 68; the contrary is 1. Absence, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u10	So the bill of law has been considered. Next, we'll go to the vote. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u11	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ...that we take into account in the explanation of vote, because we are going to position ourselves on the initiative of EH Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u12	Okay. You, too? His explanation... Okay. We'll start with Mrs Martínnez, Misto.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u13	Hello, good morning, everyone. After analysing the two proposals for amending Law 1/1988 of 5 February of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, our criterion has been to vote against the initiative of EH Bildu. And the explanation is as follows: they want to include Article 15.2, in which it does not establish the type of majority for the Plenary to appoint members, with which it is understood that they would leave it by a simple majority; now it is absolute. We understand that this is a setback in the search for broad consensus on the appointment of the members of the Tribunal. On the contrary, with regard to the proposal by PP and Citizens, we believe that it incorporates interesting improvements, such as the 2/3 majority, the control of associations and foundations linked to political parties, the commitment to transparency, a period of 4 months to analyse the liquidation of the budgets of the Autonomous Community, and sets out profiles in our view suitable for members who should occupy the seats of the Court. That is why we voted in favour of PP-Citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u14	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u16	Please stand up... That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, briefly. We abstained from considering the proposal for a law, in the case of the Bildu group, because, of course, although we also propose the amendment of this law, what happens is that the proposal established by the EH Bildu group talks about – in the background – transforming the Basque Court of Public Accounts, practically, into a proportional representation of Parliament, because it says that its members are appointed according to the representativeness of the parliamentary groups. That proposal would not avoid the problems that you have denounced. He has denounced here a number of problems, that people are appointed to seek accommodation, etc., with serious doubts as well as possible impartiality. But, of course, if we simply turn this into a quota for each parliamentary group, then this is not solved. Our proposal is in the area of promoting independence, impartiality, and very important, subjecting all candidates to a strict appearance, in which they will really – and they will be able to see it because I hope that we will take this law forward – we will subject them to a strict test of suitability. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u18	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Soto, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u19	Yeah. Well, I'll be very brief. Basically...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u20	Please get up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u21	Yeah. Basically, the reason why we voted in favour of both proposals is because both groups propose these changes based on the imperative need to adapt the current regulation to the principles of independence and objective impartiality and political neutrality. The issues they observe, which have already been worked out in the presentation in the previous legislature, regarding the election of the members and the regime of incompatibilities... well, we will have to see in the processing exactly what is the form that is adopted... Basically, the criteria that arise, one is that of proportionality, which was now said, and another is that of qualified majority voting. Well, you'll have to see what the best formula is or if there are others. And then, with regard to incompatibilities, well, it seems appropriate to raise incompatibilities in order to avoid possible revolving doors, as has also been said in some other intervention. With regard to the duration of the mandate, they are also incorporated in the proposed prohibitions on re-election, which could, in our view, be a certain guarantee of strengthening political neutrality. With regard to the extension of the Court's scope of control, which has also been mentioned, it seems appropriate to extend control to the Basque Parliament, which, to this day, basically, the Court's work is of assistance, and not so much of control and control of the Basque Parliament over its finances. It also extends to associations and foundations linked to political parties. And then, with regard to transparency and publicity, basically, comply with Law 19/2013 on Transparency, Access to Public Information and Good Government. In other words, everything that appears in relation to the Basque Court of Public Accounts appears on the Transparency Portal. And, in that sense, we consider it appropriate that we return to work, and also – as has been mentioned – as soon as possible, so that we can draw conclusions from that presentation, and that in the first half of next year we will not find this to be concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u22	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera. Then the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u23	Yeah. Thank you, President. With your permission, from the seat. The Basque Socialists have voted in favour of both proposals for legislation, in line with the meaning of our vote, both in the 10th and in the past, based, moreover, on the same reasons that we have already put forward at the time. I therefore take up today the speech of my colleague Alexia Castelo, who on 26 January 2017 commented on the justification of the Basque Socialists to amend Law 1, of 5 February 1988, which regulated the Basque Court of Public Accounts, addressing the reform and updating of the bodies that depend on Parliament and that are accountable to it and to citizens. We hope that the Basque Socialists will, with this new consideration, conclude the parliamentary procedure this time with long-distance agreements, since the majority of us here are already expressing our position and contributions, in the form of amendments, to the proposals that were put forward at the time for the reform of that law governing the Basque Court of Public Accounts. For the Basque Socialists, the important thing in this matter is to improve the functioning of the supervisory body for the financial and accounting activities of the Basque public sector. And, therefore, our amendments and our contributions were put forward, in due course, in order to avoid conflicts of interest or shadow of suspicion and to adapt the Basque Court of Public Accounts to the demands of the citizens of the 21st century. We are talking about the Basque Court of Auditors, the supreme supervisory body for the financial and accounting activities of the Basque public sector, and we will all agree on the need to strengthen the conditions of impartiality, experience and technical knowledge of its members, which does not mean demanding political asepticism. We all have a way of thinking, not just politicians. The judges, the cops, the doctors, the teachers... What is required of those entrusted with the public service of justice, security, health or education is that they exercise their functions without being conditioned by their proximity or association with any political party. That is what the Basque Socialists said in their day, and we remain convinced of the same thing four years later. The position of the Basque Socialists is clear: we want to update the institutions, we want to update them and not continue acting out of inertia of norms that two or three decades ago had one meaning but that today they have another. And in the Basque Parliament, steps have been taken towards such institutional adaptation to the new times. In the 10th Legislature we adopted, at the request of the Socialist Group, a law on compatibility and conflicts of interest, which is very demanding with those who hold public office. It is a law designed to eliminate suspicions about political activity, but it does not want to turn those who exercise political activity into suspects. Now we have the opportunity to remove shadows of doubt about the supervisory court, but without blaming those who have done that work. Here the question is that citizenship demands us effectiveness. It wants to have confidence in its institutions, in management, in the provision of services and in the attention it pays. And they also want to rely on how the accounts of the different administrations are audited, which is the role of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. The goal is no less, and I hope that we will be able to realize that saying of "the third goes the defeated". We hope that we will come to the conclusion of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. From the Basque Nationalist Party, we have always argued that the establishment of this court was, more than 30 years ago, a very important step forward in the development of the self-government of Euskadi. And we keep thinking the same thing. For the same reason, we believe that the law governing the Basque Court of Public Accounts should be updated. That is why we voted in favour. But our goal will go beyond a mere update of an article on the appointment of court members, as proposed by EH Bildu, who simply copy their 2015 initiative, without incorporating their own 2017 amendments. The People-Citizens Group, at least, presents an initiative encompassing its 2016 initiative and the 2017 amendments. What is the purpose of EH Bildu, proposing to amend only the article concerning the members of the court? Is that all you're interested in? Our objective will be to update the law in its entirety, for its legal and budgetary modernization. And not just the one that makes media noise. For that we have this new opportunity. We believe that it would be desirable, and will be our commitment in the processing of this law, to reach long-distance agreements. Why? For the sake of a body that is vital for the control of public accounts and plays an essential role in the proper functioning of the rule of law. We ask you to put the long lights on and not to remain in an interested debate on the credibility and, in your view, lack of confidence of those who work in this court. Know that all these artificial turbulences only damage the image of an organ that needs another climate. And not the one you originate. Having said that, I should like to comment on some of the changes proposed in the two initiatives: Lehenengo eta behin, EH Bildu proposes quotas of proportionality and, in turn, objectivity and neutrality of the members. It is intended to seek neutrality and objectivity, which, by the way, will already explain how they measure and define it; but, on the other hand, EH Bildu wants to be represented in the Court of Auditors in proportion to his representation in this House. But what are we talking about? How do the neutrality and objectivity proposed match with the proportionality quotas? Kontraesan Hutsa yes. So, where's the problem? It is not in that they are designated by Parliament, no, but rather in the membership of EAJ-PNV. Once again, his eternal phobias appear. Bigarrenik, both groups propose that there should be some kind of quarantine of certain years to take charge of this court. Some ask for more years than others, but we don't know very well for what. For the presumption of innocence? Are you less suspicious of the course of time? Does being a parliamentarian imply a presumption of guilt? Did we all leave to be suspects? Or are you even a suspect depending on the political party you belong to? Y, en vía de la souspecha, vuelta con cítar hoy a José Luis Bilbao. Pero,por qué tanta obsesisón? Look, congressmen, from the president of this Louis Bilbao tribunal, you only asked him once from 2015 to make a statement in 2016. And if you see the show, you can see and learn that you haven't made any complaint about the court's work. From that moment you asked nothing about the jury's work, the court's colleagues, and never doubted the work of the court, nor did you tell them anything about the budgets and memoris of the court. So, what's the problem? Joseph Louis Bilbao is a member of the court, and president, though his work was excellent, and no political party ever complained of it? Todo por ser quien es. But you didn't do the same thing with other partners. For instance, Gozon Olart, who had suggested that by the Eusgarchy, who was a member of the Euskah before he became a member of the Tribunal. Also, gentlemen of Citizens-Popular, we could talk about the members and members appointed by the Constitutional Court, the Spanish Court of Auditors, in the Council of the Judiciary... And we could go on. Do you doubt the competition of these people?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u26	Mrs. Berrojalbuz, do not create a discussion. It's a vote description.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u27	I'll explain their proposals... In addition, it is important to note that the law provides that the members of the court cannot audit or vote on matters affecting the institution from which they come. To this is added the rules linked to the ethical code, which must scrupulously be complied with. Therefore, those holding these positions meet the required requirements, are not cause of any incompatibility, and have been appointed in accordance with the law. Mr Hirugarrenik, proposed by the Group of the European People's Party, called for qualified majority voting. For what? Requesting qualified majorities could make more sense where bipartisanism is real. There is no party here with an absolute majority, as, for example, there is in Galicia. By the way, EH Bildu, although it did include this text in its 2017 amendments, now does not include it. I understand that it is no longer necessary to include qualified majority approval. But, well, we will already have time and opportunity to analyse all these issues carefully. But, yes, let's not use the Basque Accounts Tribunal for political purposes. Let us proceed to the administration of the law, in order that the tribunal may have better access to its designs and duties, with a large political consent, but not to the end of harming it. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. The vote is to explain the vote for each one, not to discuss it with the others. Third point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced by the members of the Ubeka Aranz and EH Collectors, concerning the great state of the first care. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Ubera, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u29	Good morning, everyone. I'm tired, tired, desperate, I can't... There's no way the first attention employees are available, and in general the workers of the Oscars. They feel forgotten. We forgot them, but I forgot them. We have hitherto advanced through the over-success of health professionals, and this is the reason why the system has maintained itself, and in which they operate; Entering hours and hours without looking at his watch. They know when they get into the consultation, but they don't know when they'll get out. Besides, the senior officers require volunteers and require volunteers. And they do it. Nurses and nurses were asked to do trackers and they went away and did it. Volunteers requested PCRs, samples... they have gone to take it, and have done it. They've done everything they asked for. But in the meantime, nurses who are left in their first attention have to fill out other people's schedules. These holes are not covered, and there is no replacement or more manual handling to cover those holes. Yesterday, a union told us clearly: These new $3,000 contractions from the Ukullus have not been more than 3,000 new contracts to represent infected and isolated residents in the house. Day after day, 12 hours, 14 hours, 15, 16 hours in tension, tired, months... I won't say that the government has done nothing, but he has done very little. It is the work of the public managers and of the medical authorities to give the means to do the work in proper conditions; and to offer frames to do the work of our professionals in the proper manner. Our business, our business, is not to enter medical discussions or to enter medical discussions; if we do our work well, the health professionals will be able to do their work on suitable conditions. The health system has hitherto maintained the influence of professionals by means of the influence of their will; but, as I said before, it has a limit: if the means do not offer them, they can no longer exist, and we have passed that boundary a long time ago. They need intermediates, means, and means. Adapting investment, schedule, and new times. For months now we've had access to the sanatorium, reduced by presenceal consultations, not to be said to be closed. Yesterday, the unions told us plainly: The doors to the members are closed. To get a telephonic query is an achievement, it's almost impossible, and when you get it, it's like throwing all the euphorums out of it. We must go to the Web Page, but not all the citizens have the same facility to go to the Web page. And then what do they do? Well, some people wait, others give up or leave, while what's in it? Well, there's a machine that makes the health condition worse. Even the continuation of the chronics is as follows. Everything that isn't COVID is almost discarded on a third plane. You've seen her yesterday, haven't you? In a sense we are told: but while they tell us that we are entering the third stadium, and they tell us also that many services will cease to be given. The Urgent is answering. But the problem is not the health professionals, it's not the doctor's problem, it's not the nurse's, it's not the washing machine, it's not the computer. The problem is, this government has the health department, because it has not hitherto been able to respond to the wants, the needs of the people, the needs of the medical system. Either because he had no will, or because he had not had will enough, or I don't know what other cause; I don't know reason. And the problem is not the COVID-19, the problem is not pandemia. The pandemia has discovered the problems of structure already existing, and has aggravated them. That's all: a year's absence of planning, a year's contraction model... And to all of this, who are we paying? Well, most of all, citizens, members of the Osar, we're paying. And they're paying for health professionals. The quality of a health breast is being dissolved. So, do we want to see it or not? Shall we accept it or not? Are we gonna be conscious of the situation in our sanitary homes? And it is true: it is true, according to the integrated sanitarian institutions, that states are a little better or worse, but our medical system is first attention, the glued. For if the health system is not capable of answering or filling functions, what would you call it if it were not a collapse? Before Pandemia, the first attention was in the state of emergency. In the first wave, he was stabbed, and now he's shot. But what seems to be happening in the first instance is that we don't want to notice, or that we only realize when the hospitals begin to fill up. Then, yes, all of you with your hands on your head [with your hands] with your hands. But what in the meantime? In the meantime, what about our first attention? First of all, the attention from the beginning is in the first row. It's in the front row! And the most important thing is first attention. And before the first precaution, the conduct of the population would be established by habit. It's important that people who are powerful, who have healthy habits, form, educate, prepare... Then the first attention would come. And then the hospital. And the more health is fostered by the most basic, preventive, medical conviction, custom... Well, that'll bring him a saving in hospitals. He'll bring her not to fill the hospital. I don't know if you guys know him. A long time ago the formula of the pyramid is spreading much: the experts, the doctors... You'd see it in a series of publications. The pyramid is very smart. And we've talked a lot. Even here last week, we talked about medical research, the communal attention, the importance of grafting health policies in all policies, to reduce economic social differences, because it affects health. And all this, this government has a good theory, very good strategy. The documents take care of everything. But then he couldn't bring it to practice. He hasn't been able to do it so far. But now, with need, need, need-premeditation, we must get our first attention out of the state of collapse. And that's why we've made our proposal today, our proposition today, to get our first attention out of the collapse. That is to say, what we need right now is to get a few measures out of the situation we're in. And then, together with this, we will go on to examine the measures of the medium and length of the time, plan and force. But it's urgent. It's urgent to get us out of this situation. And then, of course, it will be easy to take the measures on the moderate-length of time so as not to find them again in the same situation. So that's why we plan not to have the full management of COVID-19. And if someone has another alternative, please put them on the table because there may be different alternatives. Because we are told there are no doctors, there are no nurses... Well, then, what is the alternative? So what we plan an alternative is that we don't have the fullgestio of COVID-19 with Osa. And this is done in other countries. That would help a lot. And he'd breathe with his partner to get everything that's not COVID-19. And what we're planning is, funk leaders, he's co-ordinated and driven, so we're sharing the management of COVID-19 into different employment fields. And, based, continuing, ecemiological watch with Charles III's ratings of research centers, colleges... You know, it's just... it's like, you know, it's like, you know, That's possible. And that would be a lot of help, because with four hands we could do more than with two hands. And Osaality would take care of symptoms. And hence, from this field of work, the symptoms which would come would also enter the Osabor's system. We also plan to hire more trackers. We need trackers. And how we are told that there is no health professionals unless they are hired, they have no need to be professionals. There are some profiles that can handle that function, we form them, we start them. Because, at this moment, nurses are doing it. But these nurses are the ones who have been removed from their first care. And in the end, to cover a hole, another hole opens. It would help, too, to hire the authorities, to remove bureaucratic jobs from nurses and doctors. We're aware that at the moment, at any rate, we're told that there are missing doctors and nurses. And, of course, this government should consider why the doctors and nurses lack us. Because there hasn't been any schedules? Because we don't have IR and DIR competition? Or because we haven't negotiated with the MOIRs increasing the coups? Or they negotiated, but then they didn't apply here. Or because we're focusing on hospital specialities, putting our first attention aside and digesting them in contempt? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Think about it. Think of each EI if we hire 20 of them. Is that stupid? Is that stupid? I don't think so. Twenty administrations at every ESI. Because remember, to do sifting, as Mrs. Murga said very well, it's not to start a washing machine. There's a lot of administrative work to do in sifting. We could also hire assistant nurses who've been getting rid of their first care in the past few years. And above all, especially, we have to take care of our professionals and nurses who are leaving us. They're moving to the surrounding communities. Some came to us from the outside of the first wave, but now they're gone. We even form them here, we make investments, but what do we offer them? What contract do we offer to stay here? On the other hand, we must show out all the jobs we have without a code. The code must be coded and the template must be inserted in the structure of the structure. We need to increase the planet, change the policy of contracting, to face the provisional. And of course, and of course, that everything is not a means, that everything is not an investment. The important thing is the mentality of Osapartics, the model for function... rethinking too, isn't it? Our homes are in the neighborhood, in the village... To be enlarged, to have social space, to work with the professionals of other profiles, in the streets of the people of form and power, in schools, in workshops, in modern medicalised and consumers, is it not? to place public health in the centre, to introduce health into all policies, to produce it in social and economic differences. But what does that mean? It demands that our first attention is strengthened, strengthened, re-newed, and supported. That's what he asks for. And while we make our way in this context of the pandemonium, because we are late, we insist on our proposal, and now we need some measures to get ourselves out of the state of collapse we are in. We need measures, we don't need strategic frames. We don't need plans. We're fine. They're fine! But now we need measures, action, initiative... We need him. And not the text. And health workers need resources, and measures must be introduced, equipment needs to be strengthened, security must be offered, purity must be strengthened, it must be provided for them by the FFFP2 masks. What's going on? It's not new, and now it's getting anxious about health security in our centers. The pure and dirty spaces must be distinguished, but they must be distinguished. It's no good to say, "We separate space from space, but then they get together because we don't have any personals." Or it doesn't mean "we separate them, but then they come together because of the schedule." We must, too, open our closed anulgatory and endless focus of attention. It is also required to retrieve services for those who have been opened, because services have been reduced. And this isn't about the pandemois reorganization. Maybe it was in the first wave, but it's not happening now because it's reorganization of the pandemois. We need all that, all that and more. All that we need is the illusion of the first wave, the spirit, and the strength of our health professionals. And all of you citizens, all of you, Osarists, let's burn down health temperatures of quality. And that's everybody's responsibility, especially the government, but it's everybody's responsibility. And we've been willing to share and accept it from the start, from the beginning, from January... And we'll continue, we'll continue, and that's what we've been trying to do. Even today, we've tried to agree with a proposal. It can't be. Well, there was a little effort. But then, whether you agree or not, it is true that the government itself makes decisions here. To-day we have agreed with Poseidon, but let us hope, above all, that we must see the measures here and now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the groups which the corrections have submitted, Mr. Hernandez, representatives of the Podemos-IU team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u31	Good morning, congressmen. It's true, we've arrived, we've come to an agreement. We, of course, agreed with the direction we understood to have taken the initiative, the motion tabled by EH Bildu, Mrs Ubera. We have made an amendment to the whole somewhat more generic, but with an issue that, for us, is fundamental, and that is where I think we should agree. We believe that we should agree on this already. We think, above all, that it is about normalizing, yes, gradually, the care of patients and, in a special way, of those with chronic pathologies, who, as you know, need greater individualized dedication. But to normalize it gradually does not mean to keep us, to maintain the system, at the dawn of the evolution of the pandemic. That is, we think that the means and mechanisms must already be put in place to ensure that the system is prepared to guarantee ordinary care, even though the pandemic is there, because the pandemic is there and is going to be there for a while. That is why we think that doing so gradually, as we say in our amendment, is not waiting to be able to do so when the peaks of infection come down, when the pandemic allows it. We believe that action must be taken in advance and we believe that the Government has at least been late here. Osakidetza has not put in place adequate planning, nor the necessary reinforcements, to deal with guarantees of the possible outbreaks of the virus. And we're already in a powerful one. And that is having consequences in the attention to the rest of the pathologies, in the ordinary attention of our public health system. Again, we are in a situation where I am going to refrain from using the word collapse, because I do not want the debate to revolve around terms; although, of course, that is the definition we were given yesterday, for example, in the committee, because several of the workers' representatives are there day by day. So, we don't care if it's collapse, overflow, overload... The point is that in primary care and care, it is impossible to attend to all care activities. And to that we can put the name we want: there are constant delays in the attention of the rest of the pathologies other than the COVID, delays that can have serious consequences for the citizenry. As happened in March, everything can no longer be achieved, which is why programmed and ordinary non-urgent attention has begun to be postponed, and this is worrying. We too have been saying that we thought it was inevitable in March, but we thought it was not so inevitable now. And similar situation, in all the care areas, where the workload – we could see it yesterday also in the committee – and the pressure is increasing: the professionals are forced to extend their days, to give up breaks, to double shifts, something that we think should not be happening if, in fact, we had prepared ourselves properly. And yet, for it is not being able to guarantee, conveniently, attention to pathologies. That is why we think that we must combine, we must ensure that it is combined, the daily demand of the day-to-day and the demand caused by the pandemic, improving accessibility to consultation. We know that it is not easy; we recognize that it is not easy, that it is complicated in the present circumstances. But, above all, we think it is complicated, if in addition the previous work of sufficient and necessary reinforcement of professionals has not been done and, above all, today we are concerned that it will be doubly complicated in the near future if it does not act at this time in a decisive way. If the functions of primary care are not already strengthened with the right and sufficient professionals, emergencies will be saturated, hospital income and income in the ICU will be increased, something we should avoid. Also agreeing, because I believe that it should be mentioned, in the advantages or contributions of what telephone consultations may be in specific situations, as well as of other telemedicine experiences already given to the pandemic and which, with the pandemic, have increased and expanded their functions, we believe that medical and nursing professionals of primary care should develop, as essential work, the face-to-face care activity with the patient and try to ensure and preserve the characteristics of care at the first level, accessibility and proximity also to the pandemic. That is why we say that the desirable thing is to be able to do it now, to put the means in place so that it can be done now, and not, exclusively, to be at the dawn of the evolution of the pandemic, not to wait for the peak to drop again; to put the means in place, because it is also possible that a new third peak will come in the future, and we think that we need to be prepared to ensure that attention, even in those circumstances. To this end, a number of measures are important, and I would like to highlight one at this time: to draw, from the daily activity of the professional profiles of medicine and nursing, activities of administrative profile, many of which are motivated by the pandemic itself. In the increase in staffing, it is essential, too, to hire professionals with an administrative profile; not only, but also. They have heard us say, many times, that more resources and more investment are needed, and that is true; but, today too, we come to say that not only is it not enough with more resources and more investment; we think that it is also necessary to determine where they should develop their professional activity, and with what guidance, the public health professionals, to ensure both COVID and regular health care. This, at the moment, is not being done properly. It is essential to put in place the necessary means to ensure that the entire task today is not to perform PCR or antigen testing for selected population groups, contacts, etc. This is an important task, this is a task that needs to be done, but our professionals have to be with patients, with COVIDs and with non-COVID patients, with the rest of the pathologies. The objective with respect to COVID is to avoid contagion, avoid hospital income, avoid ICU admission and avoid coronavirus deaths, but also the objective has to be to avoid income from other pathologies. The role of primary care cannot be limited to containing care pressure, collaborating with trackers in identifying contacts of the infected and assuming the large number of administrative and bureaucratic functions resulting from the pandemic. The means must be put in place so that the professionals can devote themselves, properly, to ordinary work as well. People's frustration and discomfort at not being able to contact health centres, waiting to talk on the phone with their doctors, doctors, nurses, nurses, queues on the street to access certain health centres, added to waiting lists, are also creating a situation of discomfort with health personnel, who are not responsible for this situation. It is worrisome to hear yesterday the SATSE union of nurses explain to us how the rates of aggression had risen to professionals in our system; this is worrisome too. We also included in our amendment an issue that is linked to all this: we believe that it is important to address already, with determination, the integration of health care and social care, especially of the elderly and the most vulnerable sectors, where the virus is having a greater incidence since the beginning of the pandemic. The professional teams of health centres, with adequate and sufficient staff, especially with an increase in nursing professionals, must take care of such care both in residences and in homes, in protected centres and communities. We, the message, the position, that we want, above all, to move today... We have reached an agreement with EH Bildu. Maybe it would have been possible... We have allowed, in some way, the negotiations that brought us the proposal. We were moved to a compromise proposal; it was included in our considerations and, therefore, we said yes. For us, the fundamental message is that we have to prepare Osakidetza already, so that the pandemic does not suppose that we stop giving the quality and care service of ordinary health, so that the women and men of this country do not suffer with other pathologies, so that they do not suffer preventive care. For us, that's the message. It is true that, in the amendment by the PNV Group and the Socialist Party, there are interesting things or things with which, I believe, we can walk in the same direction. But we still miss it or it seems to us that the Government is still raising the issue in terms of leaving everything to the dawn of the evolution of the pandemic. We believe that the objective must be that, regardless of the evolution of the pandemic, we must ensure that we are prepared to serve the population. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u32	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. I represent the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadnos. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. The Chief Department, head of the Medical Department, members of the Parliament, good morning. Well, we talk about our first attention again. We have discussed this subject several times, especially in the last months. And we think it proper to speak of the first kind of attention, but not only of the first kind of attention, but of the general health. And that's why tomorrow, even tomorrow, we'll have an interaction with the head physician of the Medical Department. As we all know, the first attention is the door of health, and, well, the attention he gives is no doubt that it is very important and that many camps are seen in this grade. At this point it is plain that the state of our first attention is not good, and we can't deny that there have been demonstrations and problems, especially after the management of COVID-19. We can clearly say that this was the case with Istanbul, but in particular, as I'm saying, they've come out with the management of COVID-19. I'm sorry! In the preceding law, the government tried a certain strategy, which was the first point of attention. And when the head physician of the Medical Department introduced this strategy and explained it at the Medical Committee, we said from the Popular Party that it wasn't enough for us to face the hinges we had at that moment, and we also offered precise proposals to the Medical Department. Like I said, we're talking about primary care again. Certainly very important, when we talk about health care, to talk about primary care, since it is the gateway to the health system and the level of care closest to the citizen. At this level, in primary care, there are many issues that have to do with health prevention and promotion, with diagnosis; this is the first place that citizens come to when they do not have urgent care. It is also responsible for the management of chronic patients, all that has to do with chronic pathologies. Also phone calls that can be addressed in those..., well, at certain times to health professionals, doctors and primary care nurses. And to all this, we have to add the management and the impact that the management of COVID-19 has had, specifically in primary care, which, without a doubt, has generated, brought about... an important effort on the part of primary care and its professionals, to whom we, of course, want, once again, to make a recognition, which we also want to extend to all the professionals of Basque health. But, said this, we do consider that, obviously, at the moment, there have been a lot of problems that were there in relation to primary care, which we have already put on them... clearly... They put themselves on display... The past parliamentary term, when we discussed the Primary Care Strategy, was highlighted above the table, with specific short-, medium- and long-term measures. At that time, we did point out that this strategy, in our view, was insufficient to address the challenges, not only at that time, and the problems of primary care, but the challenges of the future. And one of them, well, then very evident, was the lack of professionals, which, well, then, implied that health professionals had to attend to a greater number of patients, and that, obviously, adequate and quality care could not be given at certain times and circumstances to patients attending primary care. But, having said that, I do understand that this initiative is timely, but we also understand that, well, it is also necessary to address health management and the health situation in its entirety. And, in that sense, too, because I would also not like to be dazzled by this debate that we approach as ponds primary care and hospital care, mainly, because, if something has also taught us the management of COVID-19, it is that, well, both areas have to be specially coordinated. Problems that were there or problems that have also been seen..., have emerged with the management of the COVID-19. Some were there; we didn't see them so clearly, but they were there. Clearly, they have to do with the lack of medical and nursing staff; they also have to do with the fact that it has been lost, and is lost, in fact, too long, by medical and nursing professionals, nursing assistants as well, in tasks especially dedicated to bureaucracy, that is, administration. I believe that, since the People's-Citizens Coalition, we believe that health professionals must be discharged, so that they can actually carry out the health functions they are entrusted with. There have also been organizational problems inherent in the management of COVID, and these problems have also been exacerbated, when it has been dedicated to the tracing of health professionals, with a significant effort, which has diverted resources from health care. Undoubtedly, we all see that there is less time to care for patients, despite the effort that health professionals are making; that the quota that each of the professionals has has also been considerably increased, with which the time of care has also decreased, and also telephone consultations, because, on the one hand, they are being a problem, because there is difficulty in contacting the health care services by telephone, and, on the other hand, many face-to-face consultations are also being carried out by telephone, when the right way to deal with many situations, I will not say all, is the face-to-face consultation. Well, in that sense, we are tabling an amendment. I have read, quickly, because the compromise amendment – I understand it was signed at the last moment – has also been distributed to us in due course, but it basically contains proposals from the original initiative of EH Bildu, Podemos, even some government issues as well. I see... – of the groups, rather, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party – we understand that, well, there are some aspects that may be fine and, in that sense, as we were going to abstain in each of the amendments tabled in full, so we will abstain in the compromise amendment tabled. It would have seemed interesting to us, also in the compromise amendment, if a reference had been made to the primary care strategy. I believe that, beyond measures – at present specific – to deal with emergency situations that we can currently have in primary care, I also believe – and, well, being optimistic and bearing in mind that in the end the virus will disappear well because it will disappear or because a vaccine that allows us to be immune to protect ourselves from this virus – we must see a broader perspective of primary care, with the challenges it faces in the future, with an increasingly ageing society, with a greater incidence of chronic diseases, with a health approach that must clearly focus on health prevention and promotion policies and also strengthen everything that has to do with home care. As far as tracking is concerned, we do agree that it is necessary to reorganize the tracking work, unloading the healthcare professionals who may be doing this work, which are being removed from other sites. We incorporate an important precision, as it seems to us that we can also take into account the tasks that the Army is doing in other parts of Spain and that are being successful. On the other hand, it also seemed important to us, something that is not done in the compromise amendment, to make a specific reference to what is home care and, in particular, to the teams of the Health Council and the service of 112. Therefore, well, understanding that some points of the compromise amendment – and of the whole amendment, too, tabled by the groups supporting the Government – may be fine, we also believe that other points, because – above all, some points that include in their amendment the groups supporting the Government as well – may be short, because, well, and we obviously prefer to maintain the amendment tabled by the People's-Citizens Coalition. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u34	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u35	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. I agree with Mrs Garrido that, in fact, we are not talking about watertight compartments; because, of course, the COVID-19 pandemic has affected us in all our areas and has affected us completely, too... it has impacted in the health field. As you know, data in both Euskadi and in the rest of our environment, in recent times, has been shown to be uphill data, and this has caused obvious tension in the care system. At this point – and they have heard it on more than one occasion, and they will continue to hear it, because, I think it is important to repeat it, precisely, in order to be clear and not to create false expectations that are alien to reality and that, in the end, they can create frustration – and in that being clear, I think it is necessary to say – because it is a pedagogical task that we are also supposed to those in the different institutions – that the epidemiological situation will continue to condition, in a clear way, the strategies to be developed in the different care devices. And it is something that is happening in all the countries of our environment, in all the autonomous communities and, of course, Euskadi is no stranger to this situation. And this affects hospitalization, affects ICUs, affects emergencies, and also affects primary care. And, also, – on more than one occasion we have said it here, and I will continue to say it and they will continue to hear it – obviously, as Mrs. Garrido said, these are not the most suitable situations – and I add, and they are not the most comfortable – for citizens. It's true. It's true. It's true! But, in making these decisions, what is taken into account is precisely to ensure the safety of patients, and also of professionals. And that is what has made it necessary to reorganise all health care in order to deal with COVID-19. And I say it again: here and everywhere else. And the modification and maintenance of the measures that have been adopted must be decided, at least in our view, on the basis of precisely those same parameters, and of course by continuously monitoring the assessment of the pandemic. Nobody is hiding – the counselor herself said in the response to the inquiry – that what our health systems are managing is a very difficult reality. And I add that it is a changing reality, absolutely changing, and that it is completely altering our lives. And that change of our normality, that alteration of our normality, therefore, also brings with it an alteration of the normality of our health care system. An alteration also in the normality of the provision of certain services. And to pretend something else is simply to want to deny reality – only to see our environment – or to ignore the situation of absolute exceptionality in which this pandemic situation has plunged us. The ordinary configuration of all our health systems – I say again that Euskadi is no exception – was neither designed nor structured so that its main objective was to face a pandemic. And this has made it necessary that, since March, efforts have been made by different governments, by health professionals, by citizens, to make decisions and to adapt to these decisions as well. This Parliament has been aware of the many actions that have been taken in response to this new reality in the course of various interventions: technical committees, protocols, contingency plans, staff reinforcements, equipment acquisition, training, and also in primary care, support has been given to the structures of the service. We were told in the reply: the telephone evaluation has been added; the points of entry in the attention have been narrowed; the differentiation of the assistance circuits has been given... And the goal is no other, I repeat, than to try to give the safest possible health care at every moment. But in any case, and I believe that this is the important thing, this has been done does not mean that there is nothing to be done, and I believe that this is the most important statement that can be heard, when a situation of these is assessed. And, in this very Parliament, both from the Council and from the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party groups, they have heard on more than one occasion that there is obviously a commitment to improvement, to improvement on what we have learned from the first wave. There is an area of reflection there to see what has worked well, what needs to be improved and what we need to do. And, in this commitment to improvement, there is an absolutely clear commitment to primary care and to further strengthen it as the closest level of care for citizens. And that, moreover, as reflected in the government agreement itself, and here I have another coincidence with Mrs Garrido, we do so with the primary care to give a solution, to give solutions, based on what COVID-19 is proposing, and also appreciating the strengthening of primary care throughout the legislature, regardless of the emergencies posed to us by the management of COVID-19. And in this area, we have tabled our amendment by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, on two points which are further subdivided into various points, which I believe are important, because they are commitments that this government takes as its own: First, we put forward a number of measures, so that, together with all those that are necessary, the Government will continue to adopt them in support of the structure of the primary care service in the context of this pandemic. We propose a dynamic reorganization of primary care centres, so that they can be adapted at all times to the different situations that occur, depending on the degree of incidence of the pandemic. I believe that this is a basic principle of reality, which must be assumed when we are talking about this situation. We plan to increase the number of primary care staff in both optional and nursing staff and, of course, training. We plan to push, to the extent that the pressure of COVID-19 decreases – and this is important, because it is another principle of reality – for the necessary measures to be taken for the return to normality of all services, including the recovery of the presenceality, always guaranteeing the safety of professionals and patients. I say it again: as long as the evolution of COVID-19 permits, because the principle that it has to govern here is that of safety, for patients and for staff. We also believe that the process of relocation of professionals from Osakidetza who belong to risk groups needs to be continued. And it's picked up as a commitment. Continue the process of strengthening primary care nursing services, with the relocation also of previously hired staff. And it's picked up as a commitment. Continue to strengthen the monitoring network with more troops and tracking equipment. It's taken as a commitment. And to push – and I think it is very important, and has also emerged in this debate – the reduction of waiting lists and delays caused by the effects of the pandemic. I believe that these are concrete commitments, which also come to give a clear answer to many of the issues raised here today in this debate. Secondly, the general reinforcement of what he was talking about, which is also reflected in the second point of our amendment, that is, in order to do independently throughout the legislature, no longer as a response to the emergencies posed to us by COVID-19, we believe that we need to strengthen primary care, expanding and homogenizing the portfolio of diagnostic tests, initiating a progressive integration of physiotherapy into primary care; increasing investments in the modernization of centres, with the opening of new ones; remodeling and updating of technological systems; boosting the figure of primary care pharmacist; promoting research in primary care; and advancing care integration, especially in the socio-health field. You will rarely see me in this rostrum reading an amendment, very rarely, but I think it is very important at this point, because I want to send a very clear message to those who are listening to us today. There are concrete commitments, to strengthen primary care, to resolve each of the points that have been raised today by various groups in this debate. The amendment that we have tabled by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party is in that direction, with concrete commitments, and that seems to me to be quite important. There has been a compromise amendment, which has just been distributed to us; I am going to analyse it now, as the debate unfolds. There has been an attempt by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party groups to reach an agreement with the driving group of this initiative, EH Bildu. It has not been possible, and it seems to me a pity, because I believe that a sincere effort has been made to reach that agreement. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u36	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u37	Madam de Table, chief of departments, fellow members of the legislature, good days to all. This motive arises from an interpelation, and, as I like to examine the reason for which it remains in the application, I reviewed the communications. And you, Mrs. Ubera, began thus: "First mind is in collapse, and you know it. It's not because EH Collect says it's not because the unions say it. The people of the village see him, and we are suffering from our fellow-citizens. Government can accept it or not, but the first attention is dissolved. It's almost alone in response to COVID-19, but it can't even be answered by COVID-19." Having finished reading this beginning, I thought that anyone who said that could only be someone absolutely locked up in their particular world, without a broad vision of the world that really surrounds them, or someone determined to manipulate dialectics to confuse those who are willing to let themselves be confused. And that manipulation had only the orientation to make noise, to do harm, as if the one in front was not an adversary, but an enemy. I must admit to you a value, Mrs Ubera, the persistence, the insistence in your arguments, but I will also tell you, for this reason you are no more right, although it might be that you try to apply that principle of André Mauris, that in the conversation, as in the war, it is enough to resist a quarter of an hour more than the adversary; tenacity prevails over reason, over science, reduces the adversary to silence by means of boredom. If so, in my case it will not succeed: my ability to endure stoic boredom is proverbial, and because, moreover, I have many-many years of endurance of everything, and I feel tantalized; already at this very age tantalized. And after this brief analysis of the positions that we each have at the beginning of this parliamentary term, it seems opportune to begin to analyse your proposal. To begin with, I will also reiterate the words of the Sailburu, which began by reminding him that the word collapse means destruction or ruin of a system, an institution or a structure, and that the current situation of primary care is far but far from that collapse. I repeat: I don't know why you always strive to talk about disaster, ruin, wreckage, when you know it's not true. I don't know why he's trying to use hyperbolic arguments, to denounce the functioning of all public institutions – you'll know – but, if he thinks it's to get political results, I don't think this is the best way. In the heart of your motion, it's a very moderate one, you think, but I don't know if it's also the people, in whose name you talk too often, in order to advance the standard of primary attention. I think he's hired with someone, but I don't think he's associated with the Osa with the COVID-19 every day and the consequences of it. And I believe – and I know – that the people of Osakidetza are doing things very well, the best they know and can, in order to be able to solve the problems that they have had to manage, while wanting to maintain all the services to the citizenry, seeming to deduce from their words that they do it wrong on the post, because worse can not be done. Well, when you talk about Osakidetza recovering all his ordinary work and, to do so, releasing his staff, combining with various research institutions the work of testing and epidemiological surveillance, you are asking to get to work on personal matter without a health profile, which is what is needed for him to access medical records and be able to do his work properly. For this, already nursing profiles, administrative assistants, physiotherapists and social workers are being formed, and there are already more than 400 people hired for these tasks. In addition, primary care has not stopped caring for all citizens who have come to it; it will have done so either face-to-face or by telephone, but have been cared for. And non-personality has basically been due to health centers with physical space problems to manage waits, and that's reasonable right now. It has not been due to the removal of all personnel for tracking; I have already told you that more than 400 people have been recruited for this work. That is why we ask in our amendment to gradually become – and as far as the pandemic allows, because it is the pandemic that is marking the use of public health – the face-to-face consultation. By the way, of course, there are health workers who are concerned with the criteria of the weak workers, who, after having rated the basic preventive units of each organization, adapt their position to fields without COVID, and they are professional damages which are not the first to help. That's what he's doing. When talking about differentiating primary care in each OSI, both in health centres and in the CAP, circuits are established and differentiated. In the centers where, due to their physical structure, it is not possible to carry out this circuit in a time frame: first, non-suspected pathology COVID, and then suspected pathology of COVID. Then it's done. With regard to attention to mild pathologies, which are also requested, all areas that have been identified by the impact of COVID have been reinforced since Osakidetza. Nursing professionals and professionals have already been developing demand management for a certain acute pathology since prior to COVID; they are known as PLAs. Then it's done, too. As for the precarious situation, I am sure you already know this, but I remind you that there is a stable and flexible contract; it is a one-year contract and it corresponds to working in a health area. Even from the integration directions, efforts are made to ensure that, as far as possible, they work in the same centre. It's done too. As for the safety of the health centres, the regularity strengthens purity. It is for fundamental preventive units to determine the proper equipment for each task. This one is set, it's doing it. By the way, many of these issues that I have told you are being addressed have already been answered in writing from the Department of Health. I mean, the persistence is there. Everything may be better, it is, but Osakidetza's organization continues to function optimally. If we respond to his motion, the feeling would be that everything is to be done, that everything is shoulder-to-shoulder, that Osakidetza, more than a complex and very serious organization, looks like the Marx brothers' cabin. And you know it's not like that. Therefore our correction approaches to what is really necessary, namely, to continue on the course of improving higher and better services, to advance on the dynamic improvement of the first-rate centres, so that at each moment they may adapt themselves to each condition, to increase the gnostic examinations, to increase investments, and increase the planilla in all respects. A breakthrough starting from an already very advanced situation. Not starting, as seems to be deduced from his proposal, from nothing, from organizational indigence. You, who speak always in the name of citizenship, even if you have not asked me for the opinion, that I am also a citizen, should look more broadly. I told you this last week: expand the circle of your advisors, because between what I think you should think of those who blow you ideas and those that I know are already your own, so I hear you, it is you who really bring to the citizenry the feeling of a public service that looks like a gang of colleagues, without any interest in citizenship. And that, besides false, is absolutely irresponsible. Look, the Basque Government made in October, less than a month ago, when, according to you, it was all collapsed, a study of the perception of Basque citizenship on various aspects of COVID-19. And it turns out that 62% pointed out that the response of the Basque health system was better than in the rest of the communities. From this, it could be deduced that you, Mrs Ubera, with whom you consult, at best, is with 1% that you said worse. It is also likely that you will say or think that this study was made, as I was told by your public companion, Mr. Casanova, who was made in a batzoki. If that's the case, then look, we're done with the debate and it's over. Because, I insist, you continue to seek an enemy, not an adversary. And I, in this second term, in that of the adversary, am willing to discuss anything. In the enemy, look, don't count on me for anything. And it turns out, by the way, that 69% of Basque citizens think that the Basque Government is having very good care with COVID patients, and 19% is good. And the middle note came out of 7.3, remarkable. If you're left alone with 6% who thinks it's bad, I think it's great. But don't come here again and speak on behalf of the citizenry, Mrs. Ubera. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u38	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing over to the line that hasn't been running, Mistto, Mrs Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. We are immersed in a deep health crisis. And since it couldn't be otherwise, since Vox we advocate strengthening our health care system both in terms of primary care and in terms of hospital care and research. Moreover, we continue to wonder why we are still in this situation in November 2020, talking about the need to strengthen our primary care system; we still do not know why it has not been seriously addressed to date. At this point, we should already know what to do and what not to do; we should have strengthened the teams of professionals and reached some kind of agreement on an issue as important as the nursing that we want, on the new roles of our nurses, on a better model of attention to chronicity, on the enormous potential of community nursing. I agree with many of the points that have been brought to this House today, on the part of both the proposing group and the amendments; for example, health professionals, who are now carrying out screening work, are returning to their health care and are delegating these new functions to previously trained administrative staff. We also believe that Osakidetza should design a coordinated strategy for the tracing, monitoring and epidemiological surveillance of COVID-19. Although it seems obvious that we're late, very-very late. Moreover, I have not seen any mention of all these health professionals both in primary and hospital care, who left Euskadi for the imposition of a certain level of knowledge of Basque, leaving behind more than important wage conditions. We could also talk about lowering these conditions, so that in Euskadi we could have professionals, who, coming from other parts of Spain, also have great qualifications; something unthinkable in the current context, even if more than necessary. In conclusion, to work seriously for better primary care, they can count on us, also to discuss the nursing we need and the best use of the scarce resources we have, especially scarce at a time of crisis such as the current one. Of course, they will also be able to count on us if they decide to solve the problems of the sector in Euskadi, among them the excessive demands that have a negative impact on the disposition of professionals that we need so much today. Mr Tellería, telephone calls in many cases make no sense. A symptomatic condition cannot be evaluated through a telephone line. I don't think there's any training for that in the medical profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u40	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Ubera Aranzeta, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u41	Everything is fine; everything is perfect: everything is being done... So, I don't understand why mobilizations, why strikes. I don't understand everything health professionals are doing. I don't know, I don't know; just like, maybe, if we listen more to each other and collaborate more, if we talk more and if we work more together, maybe, between the description we do and the one you do, there can be an intermediate. But, above all, we would have to listen to them more and work more with those on the front line. And a little self-criticism, not just you, all of you, but you, too, wouldn't be bad. Because self-criticism, I think he's a good travel companion, and it would help us move forward and be better. Look, even in this discussion, well, we can say what we want to say, each one will have the reality of his membership, or he will see it in a way, but reality is very crude. And we can discuss it here, give our opinions, give our views, but the people, the health professionals, don't care about our views, our opinions... People want us to fulfill our work, but especially those who care most to do their jobs in order to respond to health requirements, to have health resources, to be a presence, to open the doors of the Osacists, to follow the chronicles when you are going to make a diagnosis, not to delay the consultations, months, months, months, and months. That's what the people want, and our discussions... and I believe that disputes also contribute to progress, and that this interaction is useful to us, but what the citizens want is to answer for our wants. And at this moment, forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of a pandemy, we are facing a serious situation, which we cannot turn our back on. And if we don't answer that, it's a total failure, everyone's responsibilities, but it's a collective failure. And unfortunately, in a month's time, we're involved in a total failure. I will not say whether you will or not, but what I do not understand is that if it is will, what difficulties are in those engagements which you have mentioned. These engagements are means, commitments are investments. It's an commitment to listen to people and give them those answers. That's the commitment. And what I don't understand is, if it's really will... , and I think that this time an honest attempt has been made to get to harmony, and I hope to help you for one more time, I do not understand how to lose it in literature. Literature... ? What we need is... When there is an engagement, there should be no difficulty, the problem of literature and writing; it should not be, because the object of the discussion of the present day is, that the measures, the means, which are necessary at this moment, should be laid upon the table. And we will continue to work for it, and hope that all of us will continue to work here, because it is more important than ever, because the work of the Medical Committee is important, and also important, in this legislature, in this Chamber. And if you want to, stop making our proposals, but listen to what the health workers say, and take theirs, please, that's what I'm asking you to do. And I hope, at least, that the discussion of the day is useful, and that we have already to advance the measures we need. For what we need here is that, on the one hand, we must consider the development of the pandemia, but here we must take the measures to prevent the pandemia, to prevent the virus; and we are always following, and if we make the measures to prevent the virus, we will do much better to face than that which is not COVID-19, because this is for a long time. And, on the other hand, we must prepare our health system in its universality, not in its estantic departments. And it is important, first, that the measures should be taken out of the state of emergency, and, of course, to put the measures to answer such a question of structure on the table, because I want to remember that we have been talking and making proposals in this house for years. I want to remember the provisionalness, the plan, what's going on, and what's brought us to this situation. So it seems to me that we must be serious because if we don't, we'll end up with a wave after another... a wave and another one in front of us. And that's not even the wave, because I want to remember that the first wave has been constant, and that the first attentions and hospitals and workers have been working restlessly, working with little resources. I want to remember, too, when summer comes...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u42	Please stop, Mrs. Ubera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u43	... that the same measures as those of the ancientuds have been applied in the midst of a pandemy. So, let's take it, let's think it over. And, really, if there is engagement and will, put your measures. That's all...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u44	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u45	And that's what we're asking for.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u47	I think it is very important that we make a diagnosis of the situation at the moment in Basque public health and primary care. And I find that in this diagnosis there is one... or at least today, of course, I perceive a big difference between the amendment that you have tabled, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of the Basque Country, and then, then, a little bit, the speech, above all by Mr Telleria, because I believe that, in the amendment that you are presenting, in some way you recognize some of the problems that we are having, some of the problems that are, at the moment, particularly primary care. And, therefore, I don't think it's time to paint..., when other parliamentary groups pose the situations – and, above all, when it comes to public health professionals – to also raise these kinds of accusations that what is being tried is to use politically, for, to describe a feeling like that other groups, and the unions, are trying to make a sense among citizens that we have... I believe that you in the committee yesterday, Mr Tellería, used the word hell. Of course, my group, I believe, in my speech today, has not come here to try to describe hell in today's public health, to encourage, I do not know, the masses to not know what kind of action or opinion the government has against it. What worries us is the current situation, and the problems are real and the problems that citizens are having in accessing the system – and especially in primary care – are there; they are serious, we have seen them, with telephone calls, with queues in health centres, etc. And, I think that when public health professionals – in this case, through their legitimate representatives, who are trade unions – describe a number of situations, I think we owe them... I do not say that we have to share your position, of course, and I understand that you may not share your position, but I think we do have to have a little more respect for you; because, even if trade unions also have their strategies, including policies, trade unions represent workers in public health. We next week bring a non-law proposal – or a motion, pardon – that was the result of an inquiry that we made to the councilwoman, precisely focused on seeing how to respond or how we believe that the government has to respond to those demands. And what we are asking of the Government is, beyond looking at speeches that may seem more or less harsh on the diagnosis, to pay attention to what specific demands are being put on the table. We, of course, give all the credibility and seriousness of the world to the approaches they are making from the unions, because we know that they are not only seeking to improve their working conditions, but are seeking to improve the public health system and improve, in particular, primary care. And, therefore, next week we will come back to this issue, and we will discuss it again. We have not come to describe any hell. But the system now has real problems, and we know that this moment is very difficult, and that it is because of the pandemic. And, therefore, what we say – I have tried to say in my previous intervention – is that what should be sought is that the system is prepared to give ordinary attention also with the pandemic, because now we are at the second peak. But it is perfectly probable that when we reach the plateau, which, as the counselor explained to us yesterday, they expect it to arrive in the next few days and descend, later, because nothing... He tells us we're not going to have a third peak again in good time. It enters the possibilities. And we think that we must be prepared so that our system, in that scenario, can give the best health care to citizens, in the case of pathologies, I will say, ordinary, non-VOCID pathologies, because at this moment, then, it is not being done. In the first wave, it was absolutely understandable; at this moment it is less understandable, and in a future scenario, therefore, it will be even less understandable. That's what we think needs to be done. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u48	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Well, a nuance to Mr. Hernandez. I believe the diagnosis is already made. I've been in this Parliament for years, and listening to a lot of collectives, associations, professionals... We have seen a great many plans, many analyses, and I believe that what is already urgent is the adoption of measures at this time, which may be urgent, to alleviate the situation in which primary care can be found. Man, I don't know, Mr. Telleria, if it's catastrophic, like, as catastrophic as Bildu can point out. What is clear is that EH Bildu in his exhibition..., what is clear is that the situation is not good; that must be acknowledged. But, of course, you've already called it almost – well, I think you've used the word – optimal. I mean... I think that the groups that support the Government, too, do not know whether because of the majority situation they have at the moment that they do not need any other group in the House, because they also too often rouse self-congratulation. I'm also telling Mr. Rico and Mr.... Those who have ascended to this rostrum. It gives the feeling that our health is perfect, that we are very well, that there is no problem. No, no, I believe that the scenario is not at all that, and I believe that we must be aware of where the deficiencies are, in order to address them. And the reality is that the management of the COVID-19 has come up with many issues that were there, even structural problems that have come up. And it's allowed us to see... Let's also learn lessons from all this. It has allowed us to see, more clearly, many of the problems and issues that did not work well in our health. Rectification, Mrs. Ubera. Yes, it's true that I don't... It has not given me time to read the compromise amendment in its entirety, which have included the paragraph on improving home and telephone care, and health board and service teams of 112. As far as tracking is concerned, I would ask that both the spokesman and the adviser agree. Because then, the other day, the counselor was speaking to us – I have pointed it out twice; she reiterated it yesterday – that the tracking professionals were 600. And today we were told by Mr. Telleria 400. I think it's a substantial difference, which should be clarified, or... The counselor tells me no. I have pointed out that you pointed out 600 on two occasions, the personnel dedicated to tracking. As far as consultations are concerned, another issue that also... Mr Tellería told us that many consultations cannot be carried out in person because there is limited space in health centres. Well, limited space in health centres and at some points of continued care, it must also be said that this problem was there; it has not been evidenced and demonstrated in this crisis. I mean, there were problems before. You, who are from Vitoria, know the CAP of Olagibel, and the space problems we had in the CAP of Olagibel in many moments. And in some health centres, fortunately, investments have been made, and many health centres have been built new ones. There are new health centres, precisely because of the impulse already given to them, although Mr. Darpón wanted to point it out as well... , because of the impetus given to some of them in the legislature in which we support the Socialist Party. I am referring to the health centers of Zabalgana and Salburua, specifically in Vitoria, as well as others in other territories. The problem with face-to-face consultations is that they get to what they get to. The other day I was told by a patient that she had a cardiology review and, come on, that they wanted to do it by phone; that's unthinkable. I want to say that face-to-face attention needs to be given to what they need to be for, and there are issues that, of course, need to continue to be done face-to-face. And on the other hand, well, of course, phone call. But if you call to try to make a phone appointment and there's no way they'll pick up your phone, because also, you'll have to reinforce your phone calls. As for the professional deficit – and I am finishing – that deficit is indeed there. It was there, and now it's sharpened, but neither can we cheat in solitary. That is, if we also put additional barriers in an absolutely competitive scenario for professionals to come, such as the language barrier, because obviously the professionals are going to take them to other autonomous communities. Because if here they have the demand of the euskera and in other autonomous communities they do not have it, and also professionals here who have that obstacle to access our public health, then they will decide to go to other autonomous communities. In short, let's hope that the sooner it disappears... Later I say, because later than right now, but let's hope that sooner or later this virus will disappear. But, well, there is also the threat that we need to be absolutely prepared and with a strengthened health system, to deal with future pandemics that can come. I therefore believe that it is also important that we learn from the mistakes and that this Government, also in this specific matter, but in the whole of health, well, let us get to work and improve those aspects, which, at present, in the attention it is giving, have been shown to be deficient. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u50	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u51	Thank you, President. It draws my attention – and it really draws my attention – not only to these walls of the Basque Parliament, but to see it in different institutions, even outside the scope of the Basque Country, trying to plot something that has affected everyone. If anything has taught us this pandemic, it is that it does not understand borders. And that this pandemic is absolutely affecting everyone. And to me, when you do "no, look what's going on here," we're going to expand the radar a little bit... We're going to broaden the horizon we're looking at a little bit, and we're going to see what's happening around the world and around us. And we'll see that it doesn't differ substantially what's going on in some places and what's going on in others. I didn't like it, Mrs. Ubera, when you came out here "everything's fine, everything's perfect." No, no, No, no, No, no, What's more, nothing's fine and nothing's perfect. Nothing is right and nothing is perfect, because the pandemic has put everything up absolutely everywhere. And on that basis, you've had to make decisions. Decisions that, moreover, are not made – let me give you an example – here in a different way from how they are made in many other places. Because there are also coordinating bodies, which lead us to make very joint decisions. And I, Mrs. Ubera, tell you, self-congratulation? "Well, no, that's what Mrs. Garrido said." Self-congratulation?I think self-requirement. I think that the amendment has been read well, because it was earlier in the first round and it came to say that it even coincided with that second part, to go beyond the management of urgency itself. But in this account of his second round, he has forgotten that amendment. No, no, no, no, If what we are saying is that, obviously, from how we have faced that first wave, we have learned. And from how we have faced that first wave, we have drawn conclusions, and that we believe they have to be implemented; of course they do. And, of course, Mrs Ubera, who must be accompanied by action, must be accompanied by budgetary commitments. In the full past we were talking about this, we even closed an amendment with the People's Party, which said that there must be budgetary commitments for the development and articulation of the entire health strategy – obviously, with the People's Party and with Citizens; forgive me, which I sometimes forget. But that's the reality. The reality is that things are not right, things are not right in any area, and we are facing a situation that is absolutely difficult and changing. You say: we have to get ahead of the pandemic; we always go after the virus. Man, it's just like someone puts it to him that it's even logical to make decisions based on analyzing the previous decisions, and the results they have given, and correcting or implementing; of course, it's logical: you go to the doctor when you're sick, not before you're sick, of course; of course, it's that I think that's quite reasonable. To me... I am very sorry that I did not get a transactional; because, in fact, after reading it, on many points, I believe that the offer that we had made to him as a transactional the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, which we had resumed – you, indeed, sent us one proposal and we launched another – had many points of agreement, and I read the proposal that you have reached with Podemos and, well, there are some things that we cannot assume. I do not know whether they have been put in place so that, precisely, we cannot assume them; that is the doubt that remains for me. I think that, little by little, we have to try to move forward on what, I think, really wants citizenship, because here we are told what citizenship wants. Well, I'm part of the citizenry, too; I agree with Mr. Telleria. And to me, at least, the people that I'm talking to is that we agree; that's what it tells me, that we can't go out here and get our shit in the head, that we have to agree. And I will end this; we have seen that in the diagnosis and in the proposals for solutions we have many points of agreement, why do we not have a compromise amendment? That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u52	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u53	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Look, I've come to turn to why my parliamentary group suggested that I be a Health spokesman, because it was an issue that I didn't control, and I've come to a conclusion; basically, because I'm the biggest user – of course, of the parliamentary group and almost certainly of this whole Parliament – of Basque public health services. And I can assure you that, almost every 15 days, I have a consultation, an appointment, an appointment, and in a pandemic included, I have not had a single problem; it is because I am a parliamentarian and I am well cared for. Well, it's been a few months since I was a parliamentarian, and I was still being cared for; I wasn't a parliamentarian or anything; I was a normal and ordinary citizen, as I am now. That means that everything is perfect, no, but if someone asks me, from a parliamentary group, and I am the citizen to whom I ask: phenomena! [Keinu bat egin du behatzekin] And he comes here and makes a phenomenal speech. To that I am going: I have not said at any time that everything is perfect, at any time, if not, we would not have put an amendment with a lot of improvements, which means that we must continue to move forward; another thing is that I am not prepared to come and speak on behalf of a supposed citizen to say what is said, nor am I prepared... And I will respect, how I will not respect the unions as representative of the workers, but I will not accept that a union comes to this House to say that this is hell; because, really, if you listen to what they said is hell and that the lehendakari and all his advisers have been meeting almost every morning since February at seven o'clock, to see not only how to do it wrong, but how to mock the citizens. Practically, that's what they said... That's not where I'm going, because I think we have to be objective and honest. And here you're not being honest, you're manipulating things, and that's where I'm not going to happen. It is the same as a transaction: I, when I have seen the transaction you have presented, see that it collects a lot of our measures; then you also agree with us that those are improvements that need to be made. Another thing is that trading is not that they accept my thing and I have to accept the other one's; it's to look for an intermediate point of agreement, and I have the best disposition... Excuse me, Mrs. Ubera, you put all your stuff and you put half of my stuff, and that's where I'm not going to pass, that's where I'm not going to pass; it's to give in: you take away your stuff, let's negotiate that you take off and I deal that I take off, and we can come to an agreement. My disposition is great; we get to cross-mail. Okay, you had already reached an agreement with Elkarrekin We can and, after having reached an agreement with them, you already warned me that there was nothing to do with me, while I was taking the French tortilla of the night, which is what my head doctor recommends to me. Okay, but that's what there is; that's what there is. In any case, I'm going to tell you: 600 people working on tracking, and I've talked about 400 recruits, and there are 600 working, or 700 now, says the Sailburu 700. One million two hundred thousand CRPs to 630,000 unique people, 30% of citizens. Every day between ten and 15,000 people are made PCRs or antigens; 300,000 people, and already more, are vaccinated from the flu. Last week, 130,000 people were cared for in person throughout the week. Is that a sign of collapse? Is that a collapse or does it work? That's right, if it works, it's because the workers give the call; if it doesn't, it's because the organization is bad. Hey, something's gonna have to do with the organization. Obviously, I'm not going to take away all the merit from the workers, but the organization, who run the organization, has something to do with... I mean, in that sense, and when I talk about face-to-face phone calls, Mrs. Martinez, I guess there will be a lot of pathologies that you can't do, but it's a good sorting to go selecting and filtering people who then do face-to-face. Look, Mrs. Ubera, one day she tells us that it's a country pact; the next day, we do everything wrong. One day they take out a PNL to develop the school sport as soon as possible. The next day, we have to close everything. Yes, yes, yes... They congratulate Trump, and not even now they congratulate Biden or give Trump their condolences. No, no, Be consistent, be consistent. Until 2019, pact with Madrid... They weren't even quoted in Madrid; they couldn't leave. Now you guys agree and you're the best. With that permanent inconsistency it is very difficult to negotiate with you. Be more consistent. Work... And we haven't talked about the MIRs. Of the RIMs, all we ask is loyalty, and negotiation with Madrid, since now you are going to agree the budget, you agree the RIMs that have to come to Euskadi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u54	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Mist must not speak. So, since the discussion is over, we're gonna vote for EH, and we're together with the middle-direction signed by the Podemos-IU teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary is 42; the abscesssions, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u55	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudads. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters 7; the contrary is 62; the abscesssions, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u56	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of Basque Sociialists in full file. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 40; the opponents are 0; abstations, 34; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u57	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, introduced together by David Soso Rodríguz as member of the Podemos-IU team, with budgets and debts. Discipline and final resolution. The caller's turn, Mr. Soto, is your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u58	Well, hello, good morning. I am going to base my intervention, basically, on three ideas. The first of these I have already repeated on more than one occasion in my speeches in plenary, and is that, from our group, we consider that the forecast of expenditure for 2020, the year in question, as well as the forecast of expenditure for 2021, is insufficient. And we will start with the most recent, which is basically the adoption of the amendment to the Budget Act for the current year, which was already dealt with a couple of weeks ago, but which reflects this idea. We believe that the budgets, which at the time they were adopted did not contemplate the current pandemic situation, cannot be dealt with in the same way as when they were adopted, i.e. with a virtually similar forecast of expenditure. In the case of the times in which we live, taking into account the need for public expenditure, it cannot be that the Basque Government's claim of indebtedness, basically, is based on the planned drop in collection. We believe that EUR 300 million more in cash and EUR 50 million in reallocation of funds, which is basically what Councillor Azpiazu, beyond the amount of debt involved in the drop in collection, said that he added to the current budget of 2021, does not seem to us that this can be defined as budgets that take account of the reality of practically "war economy" that we are living in. He calls into question phrases like, "we'll be in debt until we need it." Well, I say here clearly that, of course, it is not all that is needed right now. The majority of the opposition parliamentary groups, it is true that with different arguments, we abstained from that consideration, but I believe that it did underlie a general idea on the part of all the groups or in the interventions of virtually all the opposition groups, and it was that the latent feeling was very correlated with the fact that the budget policy of the PNV and of the one accompanying it, which is the Socialist Party, has changed virtually nothing. In other words, they continue to assume that the entry into deficit, i.e. incurring a deficit, simply has to be limited to a budgetary adjustment. That is, that we cannot incur beyond the necessary deficit, unbalance the accounts; it is to corroborate that, whatever happens, we will not make use of the powers that the self-government gives us to make policies truly expansive, designed for citizens. A pandemic that has put the world economy in hibernation, collapsed exchanges, the global value chains that are stopping, the international trade that is contracting and, in Euskadi – according to the Basque Government's own estimates – with GDP contractions this year slightly above 10%, figures for which there are no precedents in times of peace, with consumption in households contracting 16% in the second quarter; that is, a fifth less than in the same period of 2019... Given this situation, what is the recipe put on the table by the Basque Government? A huge package of stimuli? Thousands of public contracts in Osakidetza, public education or basic social services? An industrial conversion plan, with incentives to jump to another productive matrix? No, basically, the argument is that there's not going to be any cuts. That is the manida phrase that is put on the table: there will be no cuts! In other words, we are faced with the worst crisis of the last century and, basically, what the Basque Government intends to do is that we are content not to insist on the recipes that have devastated our economy in the last decade. Inequalities have increased; public services have weakened; 60,000 jobs have been lost since 2008 in the Basque industry; services have been outsourced and billions have been spent on infrastructure that does not have an environmental, social or economic pass. Pure neoliberal doctrine: cut, yes, but for the majority. For the big companies in this country, it's always Christmas. This data is considered sufficient to throw out the window the model that entrusts everything to the private sector. A question in which the councillor has also insisted on quite a few occasions, the model that prefers the state to sit in the back seat of a car that drives in the big corporations. Councillor Azpiazu assures us, on repeated occasions, that the budget will be expansive, that austerity is abandoned, that they will bet on leaving no one behind. But, I say, and taking into account the 2020 budget, basically with a debt that figures the amount of the drop in collection, beyond that amount, nothing. Works are love and not reason. When we look at the reference rates that have been self-imposed, as if it were a T-shirt of force, we are convinced that, in essence, the Basque Government remains more concerned about square, as I said before, budgets than about making a really expansive policy and leading from the public. The Spanish State has assumed a 12% deficit, which will allow it to spend enough to lead the economic recovery this year, while the remaining common system autonomous communities have a deficit target of 2.2%. However, Euskadi, which has regulatory and tax collection capacity, could not only assume a larger deficit – these are reference rates, what we are talking about – but could also ensure greater spending capacity in the future, regardless of the level of deficit, increasing tax revenue, an issue that we repeatedly mention before this plenary and never wants to be addressed. Not to do so, but to maintain a discourse of expansive budgets and endless debt is pure and harsh cynicism; it does not correspond to reality. We and we believe that the tools of self-government should be put at the service of the majority. Or is it that, in recent times, there have been no companies with multi-million dollar profits? Hasn't the wealth of big fortunes grown in the last decade? Precisely when the bulk of the population, through their income, sees that they are in a situation of precariousness, that their children have to leave this country to seek opportunities outside, the Basque Government has repeatedly, fiscally, favored the so-called poor savings, with the excuse that savings are channelled through investment. And this is fake. Tax policy has a multiplier effect on enhancing economic development through wages, pensions and consumer benefits. For example, spending on creating public employment in health or education is synonymous with expanding the pay base of the Basque economy, which will generate activity and more employment, which, with a tax reform like the one being proposed, would be detracting resources from those who treasure, accumulate or invest in financial or real estate markets, which do not generate any kind of social benefit. Therefore, those who are opposed to increasing taxes in order to be able to orient them to an expenditure that, precisely, allows to generate growth, in reality, are not defending the interests of the Basque social majority, but the interests of a wealthy and able minority. Another mantra to which we are accustomed is that of business competitiveness, behind which the specific interests of the economic and financial elites, who oppose the rise of taxes on large companies, are hidden. Costs and prices are not the only factors of competitiveness, or often the main ones. In the same way that corporate tax costs do not account for the main part of their costs, nor do they determine their competitiveness. What has happened to the corporation tax since you reduced it to ridicule, by the way, in company with the People's Party? All the capacity and powers of historical rights have been used to create a battery of deductions for the rich, for the multinationals, for the international financial funds and to reduce, as I said, the inheritance tax repeatedly. This downward spiral has not contributed to competitiveness. He has not fulfilled that mantra that is so verbalized. This downward spiral has deteriorated public services, mainly Osakidetza, social services at all administrative levels, public education; but, above all, it has consolidated a two-speed Euskadi: the large assets and fortunes that have grown exponentially, while the middle and working classes have seen their purchasing capacity abruptly reduced. While corporate tax collection, in a good year, as it was 2019, fell by 17%, the result of the reforms adopted, the property tax, in turn, also declare it less and less people, 10,000 Basque and Basque taxpayers, and collects only 167 million; while this happens, labor returns continue to sustain the fiscal capacity of the Basque Government, the deputies... We can observe, in order to combat the mantras mentioned above, that only four countries in Europe have a lower fiscal pressure than Euskadi. And it's not exactly the most competitive, nor the fastest growing, nor the most creative... better quality employment. They are, exactly, Greece, the Czech Republic, Latvia and Slovakia. This is the model we aspire to. No, of course, it corresponds to the words mentioned here on countless occasions by different advisers and advisers in relation to the likeness of European locomotives. And this reason, this situation, referring to fiscal policy, implies that we have an insufficient and poorly dimensioned social state for the level of development of Euskadi. But, moreover, as I said before, it is wrong to collect; the tax burden, the tax burden, on labour yields, is constantly being addressed and accentuated. In direct tax contributions 35 % of the total collection is paid by labour income, compared to 11 % by capital income. And I will end with the third idea, which refers to the capacity of the Basque Government, legally speaking, to deal with this issue. And I'm talking about fiscal policy. From Elkarrekin Podemos, we have introduced a harmonised tax reform in the three historical territories, but that is not an obstacle to putting the Basque Government's ability to deal with this issue on the table here too. The capacity of the Basque Government is basically that of fiscal harmonization and that of surcharges. The situation we are facing is as natural a disaster as the ones of 1983, and we therefore believe that we must put all the capacities of this House at stake in order to deal with this health and, in turn, economic cataclysm. That is why, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, we will continue to urge this House to work in that direction. We cannot afford to remain settled in the same logic; we cannot allow the excesses of the market in recent decades, coupled with the health crisis, to pay back the usual ones. In the face of empty words, we believe that, out of responsibility, out of respect for the citizens and out of commitment to the people who are going through the worst, we must implement all the capacities of self-government available to the Basque Government. The duty of this House is to seek material solutions for people. It is now more necessary than ever to put the faculty of self-government at the service of the people. The Law on the Regulatory Principle of the General Finance of the Basque Country, which dates from 1983, gives the Basque Parliament the power to establish surcharges, inter alia, on the tax of the IRPF, the property tax or successions and donations, to cite some examples. In fact, article 35 of this law states that the Basque Parliament may impose surcharges on these taxes, through laws to that effect. And with regard to that article which gives the Basque Parliament the competence to do so, nothing more or less, we will urge in the coming weeks, by means of a proposal for a bill of urgent surcharges, that the Basque Government should train and implement the application of surcharges to have revenue, an additional effort, in relation to the expenditure to deal with this pandemic situation and also lack of resources. I insist, and I will conclude with this: we believe it is appropriate to deploy the fiscal powers that are granted to Parliament, with the aim of providing, budgeting and spending all the resources necessary to cope with the health and, in turn, economic situation that we are experiencing. We cannot limit ourselves to making up for the drop in collection on a permanent basis. We need to deal with the budget in an expansive way, and to do so, we need to use all the tools we have at our disposal, through a proposal for tax reform at the level of the parliaments or the general boards, as well as the resources available to this House in order to deal with the profound economic crisis that we are experiencing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u59	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Zuzenketak aurkeztu dituzten txandara pasatuz, Mistoak dauka hitza. Martinez anderea, zurea da hitza. [Mikrofonoa itzalita hitz egin du]... In this beginning of the legislature, we are with the battle of slogans, the battle of demagogy. End of austerity, say some. Austericide's over, others say. And, meanwhile, the people bleed in the clumsiness of the management of a health crisis that, despite the scientific and technical advances of our time, treat in the same way as in the Middle Ages: house confinement; all at home.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u60	But with this level, there's no debt to save us. From Vox, we agree that given the circumstances of the crisis, if resources do not arrive to save businesses, improve our health system, help our educational institutions and, of course, save families, then we must go to debt. We have to resist. The nature of this crisis, with limitations as serious as those announced last week, makes it essential to resist. We don't know how long, but the administration has to protect our productive system, and no one doubts this. However, in Vox we cannot fall into complacency, minutes and minutes of speech, empty words, to say an end to austerity, and with this all is said. For them to say: the one who wants to understand that understands. It is an infinite defachity to believe that with that slogan everything is already said. Debt is no gift. And it's not because you have to return it. Our children will return it. And the economy is based on trust. A confidence that takes centuries – look what I say, centuries – to build, and only a few minutes to destroy. "We need to improve services through indebtedness", these were Mr Soto's words. "It is not necessary to make cuts", as if cutting was bad by nature. But you can't be in debt ad infinitum. We need to achieve sustainability, and through reform. From the tax reform they propose, that is, to raise taxes even further, we are not going anywhere, Mr Soto. Unfortunately, in macroeconomics two plus two aren't always four. And it is more than likely that, with that idea of raising and raising taxes, far from being able to collect more, we will get exactly the opposite. Of course, you have to cut it before you're in debt. Cut into the superfluous, the unnecessary. Cut back on political and ideological spending; this is nothing new. In all aspects of life, so it has been done: when we go wrong, we have to cut into the superfluous. That's how our parents did it; that's how companies do it... But in politics, they say, it doesn't seem so. What does Vox propose? It calls for a radical reduction of indirect taxes, of VAT in all its sections, for next year. With this, what do we want to achieve? A total reactivation of consumption. If 2020 was the year of resistance, 2021 has to be, if circumstances permit, the year of reactivation. And, therefore, from Vox, we believe it is necessary to carry out a tax reduction, which reduces the products and maintains the purchasing capacity of those who have suffered great losses during these months. I'm closing up. The truth is, they're talking about indebtedness. They talk about avoiding austereicide; but what is the reality? That we have, for the first time in a long time, a Basque Government with two vice-lehendakaris, and that European funds are being distributed, we do not know how; there are large companies that call us asking how to access them. The hoteliers told us the other day that they had not seen a euro. The merchants, three quarters of the same. At this stage, you won't need to be in debt to resist. We'll have to call them reconstruction funds, because there's nothing left. Then who will lend us the money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u61	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Rodriguez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u62	Yeah. Good morning, everyone. Good day, comrades of Parliament. I want to start with: public policies, at least in our opinion, must have two principal ends; First, protect people. The social and economic needs that are here and now must be faced by public policies, because no one is to be left behind, so that that the refrain may not be, just an idiot. In short, we all agree, or seem to have heard a few speeches of these days; but in practice, unfortunately, we have to prove that this is not the case. For we have seen these public policies in the last few years, not in the service of the majority, but in the service of a few. And we have seen more than this, according to the neoliberary doctrine, restrictions in public services, public privatization, and in general in the economy of the Administration, as it were, of the State. And that has brought some very serious consequences. He's brought in, for many years, the preparation for the work and conditions of life of the vast broker. And now he has brought what we see, what we see now: hospitals, wanting enough resources, colleges without enough resources, tracker pills, etc., etc. Because the responsibility or responsibility of being in this situation is against what he's saying, it's not about people. It's not a problem that people are careless, like we're saying over and over again. No. the responsibility for being in a very serious social and economic crisis, of panic, yes. Yes, but also, as in the last decades, Istanbul, that of those political and administrative officers who have made public restrictions. It must be a second end, or it must be the public policy, and it is to face the wants to come, that is, to anticipate and answer them to the needs of to-morrow. And in this sense, we must say that in this state a great change of direction is manifest, if we are capable of answering to those wants which are to come. A change is necessary, deep in the direction of these public policies. For we have seen how, when precrecised and privatized, as when the logic of capital and private gain orders, and how the institutions avoid the care of preserving it, life recoils when it does not disappear. We have seen it thus at the foot of the Horses, and so we see it every day, during the last months, during this pandemia. Third, budgets are the primary means of conducting public policies. The budget policy also requires a major transformation or a major change of direction. First of all, you need to increase the income, and you need new incomes, which have, as it were, caused some serious damage to money. And in this sense, it is necessary to increase the obligation, yes. We take it with pleasure, and we see that in a little while we have to see that those tried militants, who had hitherto been committed, have to share in some sort of debt, and that by dint they have to deal with the social and economic needs of Gibraltar. But it's not enough only to suffer. It's dangerous to play a single card, as it's dangerous. Besides, it may not be enough. And that's why we also say that we need a deep attorney reform, a state of reform, a progressive, effective and legitimate attorney who's finally going to do it, because, instead of such a reform, they'll have to pay for the consequences of this crisis once more. We are told that there is no tax reform. The problem is, he never touches. And we say: how is it not going to touch if, precisely, we find ourselves in a situation, in a situation where, as I say, income has been drastically reduced? How is it not going to play if new sources of funding are needed? How is it not going to play if current taxation continues to fall primarily on labour income? How is it not going to play if, as the partner of Podemos said, there are companies, such as Iberdrola or BBVA, that have even improved results in this unmatched economic and social crisis? How will it not touch to tax those companies, the profits of those companies? How come you're not gonna play taxing the highest rents? Of course it does; even the IMF is demanding more progressive taxation. Even the IMF passes them on the left. Fourthly, it's time to end up with the policy of competition. And as we were saying the other day, we don't understand why we're going to have to auto-limited ourselves in debt, because this year and next year, we're known to have been suspended by the prosecutor rule. On the contrary, this government has decided that this boundary will be 2,6. But we ask why we must self-destinate ourselves, if we have a financial capacity for more than that, and if they ask that we owe more than that, the social and economic needs I have mentioned. We don't understand. I said it the other day, and I'll say again to-day: the execution of this neolical doctrine of which I have spoken. On the other hand, they say there will be no reduction. That's said over and over. And what we're saying is it's the business to give back the last decades' restrictions, to start and once. It is a question of making all the public investments necessary at this moment, because necessity has increased in a context or context to prevent these investments, that is to say, reducing them too. That's a reduction, too! And we think it's scandalous, as we accused him last week, that the execution of his budget for the past year and this year should have been similar to that, that he's spent as much as he's spent the last year, if it hadn't been less. And we think that's scandalous. You need property. This budget policy needs independence. We need to be able to be able to deal with our financial situation and our financial abilities only. It was also said the previous time that the agreement reached in the Joint Committee on Economic Concert and which fixed the deficit in that 2.6 to which I referred is an example of bilaterality and self-government. And we say that, certainly, it is an example, it is the situation of subordination and submission of this people to the Spanish State and Madrid, because it was Madrid that decided the rhythms, the contents and even that final figure of 2.6. It was Madrid, not us and us. That agreement gives the real measure of our self-government. Madrid decides, and, if that were not enough, we seem obliged to conclude an agreement, which, as I said last time, is very ruinous and, ultimately, a birria in comparison to what Euskal Herria Bildu achieved with the governments they support, with the parties that support the Spanish Government and that gave the possibility, as I said, that we would be indebted, only and exclusively, according to our financial situation. We must also have a new administration; we proclaim it aloud, for with whom has this government decided the number of 2,6? Who? Who's he talking to for that? Why hasn't this government defended this peace agreement taken by the Ecomomic Conmission of the Consumption of the Constivity of the Concommencial Concert, EH Collector? Wasn't it better? Wasn't it better? ! Why didn't he defend it? What would it have been, or what would have been the disposition of this government, if it had not been that EH Bilt did it, but that PNV had obtained it? Now we believe that it is time for us to get out of this state of our government to understand it, and that if we can face this situation, we need a state of government not entirely different from the present. A collaborative standard of government, which will in some measure acknowledge the word of the rest, and will relate it to the rest. To finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u63	Finish it, yes, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u64	Yeah. Our correction, at least, seems to be of the least importance to this situation; to be able, as I have said, to be indebted, and to be able to define a prosecution and finance, which will only be founded on our wants, in our condition, and in our abilities, and in the second place, a deep-rate reform.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u65	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Passing over the uncorrected teams to the popular Euskal Group-Ciudad, Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u66	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President... I'd say "government members," but I don't see any. Ladies and gentlemen, speakers. Well, the truth is, this motion thing, you know how it starts, but not how it ends. Don't you? Because here Mr Soto tabled a motion, with which I totally disagree, – my group too, but, well, I imagine that with the good will to have a debate, such – and in the end you have reached an agreement with Bildu and, well, and you have tried to defend your proposal. Bildu – or EH Bildu, I'm sorry – seems to be using it to increase that growing tension that is being observed – even, I observe it, that I'm quite lost – with the Basque Nationalist Party, and look, I'm going to do one thing: I'm going to be honest with the proposal you made, and I'm going to try to get into the bottom of the issue and discuss it, because, I'm going to use a PNL that presents one with good will, turn it around and end up voting and discussing something totally contrary to what was originally proposed, because, look, I don't like it. Let's see; I share the diagnosis you make: the situation is bad and can be worse. It is true that in matters, in matters of economy, we must always be cautious, especially from public bodies, but we must be prepared, we must always be prepared, for the worst. I share the diagnosis; partly, the means – one of which you mentioned is the budget, the budget – but I do not share your proposals at all. And, look, I'm gonna tell you why. First of all, the first point of your amendment, which basically disappears – they have half redrafted it at the point one of the transaction, of the trance – therefore, it speaks of a law of budgets of an expansive nature. No, it's not time... The expansive nature, I imagine, implies increasing public spending, making countercyclical economic policies. Man, countercyclical economic policies, yes, what happens is I think that for you and me, countercyclical policies are different. For you, countercyclical policies will be to increase public spending at the cost of debt, which is the easy thing; for me, a countercyclical policy would be to lower taxes, to allow economic activity to recover and from there, in the medium and long term, also to recover revenue collection capacity, and with that, in fact, to be able to finance the public sector, which, come on, that is the abecé, I believe from the ordoliberal system, which is not neoliberal. By the way, a word that you use a lot and never explain what you mean, because this neoliberal thing you sometimes use, I imagine, I understand that, as an insult, but so far you have never explained what this is about being neoliberal. Say it, because, maybe, I'll get in the car. Then, in the second proposal – which is based, or which, essentially, seems to contain a deep tax plan and on which, in addition, you refer to the fiscal equivalence of Euskadi with the rest of Europe –..., look, I will stop at this point, because it is a mantra – it is a word that you have used – this of the equalization of tax pressure, which, in addition, is using your... –I don't know if your partner, but come on, the party with which you have a government pact at national level – Mrs Montero, who also talks about the need to raise fiscal pressure, which basically means: hey, I don't get the bills; I raise taxes to compensate. This is a common argument, but it is a false argument, a false argument, not to say – which I understand you have good advisers – because, not to say deceptive, crooked, fallacious... Look, it is often said that the difference between the fiscal pressure of the European average, countries of the eurozone, because we have to try to find a more or less suitable comparison term, so it can be around 5% or 6%, more or less, right? In Euskadi or Spain there is a small variation; but, in short, that is also similar. We cannot compare the situation of fiscal pressure in the European case, the situation in Spain and, in particular, the situation in Euskadi, for a number of reasons: Firstly, because the level of unemployment is much higher in Spain; structural unemployment is much higher in Spain than in the rest of Europe. This makes, as you well know, that when there is more unemployment, of course, there has to be a diversion of public resources to try to alleviate, to the extent possible, the situation of people in unemployment, and, in the end, it also retracts, descends, consumption, with which, of course, once again less is collected. Secondly, GDP per capita is 15 percentage points below the euro area average. It's just that our GDP per capita – per capita income, let's just say it's much lower, so we don't start from the same comparison parameters either. Thirdly, and this will please you, is that the Spanish foreign debt, in general – that of Euskadi, comparatively, moreover, is a little lower; quite lower certainly, but it also affects us the debt of the common state –... because, is that the foreign debt of the Spanish economy, you know that it is the third highest in the eurozone. Of course, having a very high debt what does it mean? Man, if you keep interest rates to zero, then obviously, hala, glory. But, man, we don't know how long this situation is, and apart from that, it's beyond the control and control capacity of the national authorities. I understand that you are used to it, because you basically share the postulates of what was Franco's economic policy. I am going to quote another mantra of yours – which has not been mentioned for a long time, I say, since they had been forgotten – but it is that the postulates of your economic proposal are always absolutely identical to those of the French economy, which is protectionism, often, not well understood in a short time, but economic policies that run counter to free competition – which I will mention a little later – are policies that only seek to compensate for the easy – in the Franco era you know it was the devaluation of the peseta – because, today, you would say, no, because we are going to increase the debt. And, in the end, employment has never just been recovered, which remains, which remains, very high [unemployment]. By the way, another Francoist measure that you want to impose is the fixing of rental prices. Look at what it took to get the rental market back a little bit. But, well... There is also a high level of submerged economy, as you well know, and predominance of small businesses. Of the submerged economy, perhaps we can speak in another proposition that they have also presented there; but, the problem of the lack of muscle of the companies always makes them, as you well know, weaker and more permeable to the situations of economic crisis and, above all, crises that are followed by measures, many times, in situations that nobody could expect, such as the pandemic and the case of the hotelry, in which, above all, we have started the house upside down; it has been like entering into a casketry: listen, first they decree the closure of the hotelry, then we will see if there is any help; that is, a total absence of legal certainty, which is absolutely the worst thing that can happen in the economy. And then there's another topic. You always complain about the issue of tax rates, that is, the taxes that companies pay, for simplifying a lot. I was surprised not to talk about relocation; I imagine that will talk about it somewhere else. But I am very surprised by what you have also mentioned about the typical mantra of low taxes paid by companies. Look, there is one issue: it is true that proportionally or percently it can be lower what can be paid in Spain, what happens is that the social contributions that are paid in Spain are proportionally much higher, so, if one adds social contributions per worker plus what is the specific tax rate, then there is no longer a gap with Europe. In the case of Euskadi, by the way, in which you propose the creation of surcharges, there is absolutely no need or need to be told, is there?You know what I think: at all, it is not the time either now or in general ever; every time there is a rise in taxes, it is a failure, it is a failure of public management in the broad sense. Euskadi is the autonomous community – in fact, the three historical territories that make up it, which are those that have fiscal powers, essentially – that more tax on lower incomes, that more tax on lower incomes, and that is something that you, by the way, have not spoken about in your intervention. There are many issues on which you can also cut; it is that I no longer want to go into other issues, which, as you know, for example, are part of what has been the most expensive government in Spain's history, or that in Euskadi we have a report out there, which was made at the time, when Patxi López ruled – who was going to tell me, I here claiming Patxi López?!– but it is that a report was made on overlaps in the public administration, which is another problem that there is, historically, in the Spanish administration, and also in the Basque administration. There was talk of the need to simplify the administrative structure, and there was talk of the possibility of saving, of saving money, indeed, in overlaps, to invest it in social policies, of course. Therefore, the second point, in which you speak here of raising taxes, so, obviously, not bravely. What's to be done? And I'm already entering the final phase: what should be done? Well, look, I agree with you that what needs to be done is to present a budget, with a specific content; but, for that, it is necessary that the advisor and his team, therefore, present to us the proper methodology of the calculation of income. A budget must be presented but with specific measures, allowing for growth again and the recovery of employment, and not raising taxes, not raising taxes. It is very important also to increase coordination with economic bodies and also with tax bodies in both Euskadi and Spain, because it is very important; as well as the pandemic cannot be analysed only in local terms, as one colleague from the other bank said before, nor in economic matters. And then, finally, all this from sincerity, because we must be sincere in diagnosis and in the situation, legal certainty and transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u67	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u68	Yes, thank you, President, good morning. The Basque Socialists have not tabled an amendment to the initiative of the Elkarrekin Podemos and Izquierda Unita, because our position on the budget for Euskadi for quite some years now, our position on fiscal reform and on the fiscal mechanisms that this Parliament has, since the ninth legislature, is clearly expressed in all the debates that we have held in this House, on the revenue and expenditure of successive budgets, and until today we support the proposal and the reply that the Councillor for Economic Affairs and Finance gave us to the question of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, when in the plenary of 30 October the Councillor gave his explanations, and there is nothing more to go to the daily sittings of this House. I will try to set out the arguments that the Basque Socialists give to the three approaches they have made in their original initiative Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. First, regarding the preparation of the budgets of 2021, last October 21, the councillor, in his appearance to explain the strategic lines of government action for this legislature, stated, regarding the economic and budgetary policy of his department, referring to the government program for the year... from 2020 to 2024, that this policy is based on three principles: ensuring health, economic and employment recovery, and leaving no one behind in any of the parameters that define a cohesive society as the best investment for this country. Among the commitments of the government agreement signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra is that of managing public resources responsibly, following a budgetary policy based on the rigorous use of public resources and the sustainability of public finances. The budgetary guidelines to mark the preparation of the budgets for 2021 were adopted on 6 October in the Governing Council. Since then, it has been public that budgets are being developed to rule out austerity and cuts in public policies. Budgets in which health and education will receive a significant budget boost. It has already been suggested that in the planned scenario we will be faced with budgets which will address economic recovery, which will revitalize the sectors most affected by changes in demand, and which will give impetus to fiscal consolidation and which will promote programmes aimed at strengthening the new financial policy adapted to the post-COVID-19 scenario. The investment effort will be raised in these budgets, collecting, in addition to the effort, the digital and energy transitions. To make it clearer, I refer to the presence of the adviser, Mr Azpiazu, on 21 October, when, among these explanations of the strategic lines of his department, he proposed, as a horizon of the Department of Economics and Finance, to draw up and design the budget for the coming year in a moderately expansive way, without any setbacks in spending and with some boldness in the general approach. The parameters or keys of income will be debt up to the maximum possible, not austerity, to cover expenses to be met without restrictions. There will logically be a rationality in expenditure, not forgetting that, after a few years, the path of budgetary stability and fiscal consolidation will have to be resumed and we will have to be prepared. And Mr Azpiazu told us that the deficit limit, the breakdown of the rules of budgetary stability – understood in a rational way – and the forecast of revenue, approved by the Basque Finance Council, augur a possibility of a budget of character, as he said, moderately expansive and without cowardice in public expenditure. The second issue raised by Mr Soto on his initiative is tax reform. In the area of revenue for the 2021 budgets, account must be taken of the agreement of the Joint Committee on Economic Concert on 30 September – which Mr Rodriguez says is a piece of shit – and the agreement of the Basque Finance Council on 15 October. Why? Because they allow the pooling of a relatively broad deficit and debt capacity, understood as a reference, as well as increased budgetary revenue, through contributions from the out-of-town parliaments, which pose a rebound in revenue by 2021, compared to the end of the 2020 financial year. Entering the scope of the tax reform of his initiative, go ahead to point out that the Basque Socialists have been co-protagonists of two tax reforms in Euskadi: the one of 2013 and the one of 2018. In the current government agreement and programme of this twelfth legislature, in addition to committing ourselves to this rigorous management of public resources, we have committed ourselves to moving towards a more progressive and equitable taxation. We, together with the outside institutions, maintain the will to carry out such a tax review, although this review must take into account the new economic reality that emerged following the crisis in COVID-19, the possible developments in employment, the capacities and competitiveness of companies, as well as the extraordinary contributions that are foreseen by the Government of Spain and, as far as we are concerned, by the European Union. The revision of taxation requires, first, a shared assessment and reflection with the competent institutions, because we want this tax review to be appropriate to the new reality, which is oriented towards greater progressiveity, for the strengthening of public services and support for the employment-generating economy. We want Basque taxation to focus on fiscal convergence in Europe and to enable it to adapt to the economy and emerging challenges, including environmental criteria as well. And that's our will and that's our commitment to fiscal review or fiscal reform, prioritizing the evaluation of the results and impact of the measures implemented since 2019, with respect to the reform we did and agreed on in 2018. And right now, the Basque Government is in the approach of increasing public spending, as an instrument to boost the aggregate demand of the economy and the financing of public policies. To carry out a tax reform in Euskadi as a matter of urgency, as you propose, aimed at raising taxes, can have – and you know it – a negative impact on aggregate demand, income and employment in Euskadi, which can lead to a delay in the exit from the crisis, which I believe is what no one wants. That review of Basque taxation will therefore be possible when the economic circumstances improve and allow for this calm debate, which we hope will take place as soon as possible. The most interested in getting out of the crisis as soon as possible, respecting the maintenance and strengthening of public policies, trying to reduce the inequalities that this health crisis could generate, counting on the sufficiency of economic resources, is undoubtedly the Basque Government itself. The income scenario is complicated and uncertain, and must be managed with rigour and responsibility, because, indeed, the debt has to be paid – some of those who have preceded me have already said so. And on the basis of this inexorable principle, the necessary debt will be issued, justified, analysed, programmed and always updated by Parliament. We do not want today's debt to be a remorse for the advancement of Basque society in the future. Therefore, principles such as prudence in debt, sufficient resources to withstand the worst moments of the health crisis and, beyond the pandemic, to be able to reactivate the economy and employment, as well as to invest in social cohesion, are the three cross-cutting axes of the Government's action. I now turn to the third point raised by Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. Making use of Parliament's tax mechanisms, adopting harmonisation and surcharge bills to increase the spending capacity of Basque institutions, does not seem to us to be a resource to which we have to come at this time, and we also express it to the Socialists, when Elkarrekin We brought, in April 2017, the debate of a bill – I don't know if it will be the same as you will bring us in the near future – on additional revenue for the General Finance of the Basque Country, through surcharges on various out-of-pocket taxes. Without going into the details of that proposal, which was rejected by Parliament, the Basque Socialists remain convinced that taxation is an essential tool for building a fairer and more supportive country. An instrument that is necessary to advance as a society, to maintain public services and services, and that must have a fundamental objective, which is to set up an equitable, progressive, supportive, sufficient and efficient system. The tax system must ensure an adequate balance between income and expenditure, and must contribute to generating wealth, competitiveness of the productive fabric and job creation. And those objectives were met by the tax reforms that we agreed on in 2013 and 2018, and we believe that it must respond to any changes in the tax system that take place. Today the pandemic has been able to put us in an unprecedented and exceptional situation, but little or nothing has to do with the situation of the floods of 1983, which was when the surcharges were mainly installed, and it must also be borne in mind that, at the moment, the responses are being given at European and State level, something that was not given at that time. Therefore, we continue to have self-government tools; we continue to have tax tools that allow us to obtain a number of resources and that put that self-government into operation. And you have not alluded to tax fraud, and it seems to us, to the Basque Socialists, that it is also a very important element in the question of when tax reforms need to be addressed or when tax policy needs to be talked about. The budgetary spending targets for 2021 are clear from the Government. We know the needs, and we have the economic and financial instruments that self-government allows us to deal with them and solve the maintenance of public policies with security guarantees, and so we can boost economic growth and exercise the precise actions of social and territorial cohesion for Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. This motion here to discuss is the consequence of the interpenetration made to the Chief Sub-Azu, in which Mr. Soso asked nothing but what he had asked at the scene. So, what's the purpose of the interpelration? Well, to introduce a motive, how light and light it is to bring it into this assembly of tax-reforms, and to give it a autobobon to the tax-form, which Podemos has presented this Monday. And why not a PNL, to study this matter more calmly? Well, EH Collector had a PNL registered in October, a D.C.C.C.C.C.I., on the COVID rate, in which Podemos introduced a correction to that PN, which is the same as the text of the motion now introduced. Podemus, couldn't you wait for us to come to this EH Collecting PNP? Why not? The equipment of the EH Collectors...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u71	Mrs. Hatch, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u72	... because the initiative was to be the EH Collector, because EH Collect will advance you, and because you wouldn't have the headline. Fellows of the EH Collectors, mind your business partners: Your PNL has been revoked, they have saved you from the right. Mozioaren helburua zein den ikusita, mozioa bera Aztertzen saiatuko naiz. "First. The Basque Government is urged to draw up the 2021 budgets on an expansive basis." I really do not know if it has not been clear, but the Basque Government and the Azpiazu Sailburu in particular have explained on numerous occasions that, even with the economic and social situation resulting from the pandemic, courageous budgets will be proposed, without cuts and expansions. Budgets without cuts in health, education and social protection, betting on social policies, as the lehendakari also said in the investiture. And there is no greater endorsement than the experience, trajectory and analysis of previous budgets, where social spending items have always been increasing. I do not know, Mr Soto, what do you not understand from this, that our budgets are more progressive and social than those which you have presented in the State? In the same block, Mr. Rodriguez, where are the restrictions? We're in the place of things because things have been done well. Don't use words that don't have, even if they sell well on Twitter. We know that it will be difficult times; but, with good management of resources and the rigour with which we work in the department, we will move forward. And yes, we will be in debt, as the Sailburu says, "until what is needed." But, to achieve this goal, we cannot overlook the historic agreement of the Joint Economic Concert Commission on deficit and public debt targets. And yes, they are reference rates, Mr Soto, which we have had to negotiate because your Government's stability law demands this from us, and we have had to re-adapt it. That, by the way, congratulations, that the other day has been recognized as part of a Government. As I have said on previous occasions, this agreement is a very important milestone, which recognizes that outlaws have tax power in historical territories. The Economic Concert represents a level of self-government in economic matters that requires responses adapted to the Basque reality. And so it has been on this occasion too. But we are drawn to EH Bildu's position on this, more specifically that of Mr Rodriguez, who said – and I read literally – although today he has said again: "We have concluded an agreement, which, in our opinion, does not cease to be a birria in relation to and in comparison with the agreement reached by Euskal Herria Bildu with the two parties that support the Government of Spain, and which gave the possibility that we would be indebted, only and exclusively, as I said before, according to our financial situation". And he goes on to say: "Why did this government not defend that agreement of Euskal Herria Bildu, which, what doubt is there, was far more beneficial than this one to which you have agreed?". Look, Mr. Rodriguez. First, we did not defend the agreement of Euskal Herria Bildu because we did not know if it was in force. I will only remind you that, hours after his signature, the Spanish Government went out to discredit him, with what just like "birria" is your agreement. Secondly, because the PNV, on 20 May, has already agreed with the Spanish Government to have a deficit percentage on GDP to compensate for the fall in revenue, with the commitment to fix it in the Joint Committee on Economic Concert, with which we do not need any agreement from EH Bildu to achieve our objectives. EH Bildu is a newcomer to Spanish politics. Our party has been an important political actor in Madrid for over 40 years. And that same time we've been listening to his disqualifications. According to you, the PNV was sold for a dish of lentils; beti ginen Espainiaren morroi. We could tell you the same thing now that we know Bildu will support Sanchez's budgets, but it's not our style. We don't get into your competition to see who's more influential. We respond to your disqualifications with our applause. So, although late, welcome. I wish you could copy us more, because Euskadi will be better off. The representative of EH Bildu also indicated "that our financial situation is, what is doubt, much more solvent than that of the Ebro down (...)". Eskerrik asko, because in your words you are recognizing the good management of the Government. Following the analysis of the Elkarrekin motion We can, on a second point, find ourselves with the need to address urgent tax reform. And without repeating again the figures that Mr Gordillo has already indicated, what I do not think is that they are proposing for the common territory a punctual increase in taxes and in the Basque Country a profound tax reform. And I refer to your Monday press conference and the proposals put forward at general meetings and I will try to make a short comparison. In the IRPF. Among other issues, in Spain you propose a 2% increase in IRPF to those who earn more than €300,000. Of course, with this increase we are not going to pay much of the debt, when this measure only affects 0.08% of taxpayers. In addition, if we compare the scale applied to the general base of the IRPF in different autonomous communities, in Euskadi the maximum rate is 49%. And in Madrid, for example, a 43.5; in Castilla-La Mancha a 45; in Aragon a 47.5, and could continue. Therefore, why do you want to raise the maximum rate to 51 in Euskadi? And why not up to that level in common territory? I remind you that Euskadi is the most favourable autonomous community for middle income, and the most unfavourable, after Navarra, for high income. Climbing on heritage in Spain and in Euskadi. But, of course, since it is a tax passed on to the autonomous communities, the collection impact is very different and, in turn, very small; see the non-taxation in Madrid for this tax. Besides, we'd have to look at these other issues, wouldn't we?: the existence of the phenomenon of double economic taxation for savings – not legal or technical, economic... – and the one generated when this tax coexists with the tax on inheritances and donations. Remember that Spain is the country that most taxes wealth savings in the OECD. It is the only country that taxes both assets, estates and savings income. And it shares only with the Netherlands a heritage tax and estates, with much higher types. Point for reflection. We continue with the rise in the hydrocarbon tax on diesel. Is this progressive when average-low rents are those who buy these types of vehicles, since their purchasing power does not reach for the purchase of other types of vehicles such as hybrids or electrics? Eta, azkenik, sozietateen zerga, corporation tax. In Spain, curiously, do not propose the inclusion of the minimum tax rule. In Euskadi, we've been applying it for a few years. But not only that, that in your deep Basque tax reform you want to increase the rate in Euskadi to 18%. Why this difference between territories? Here minimum taxation, and also higher than what we already have, and in Spain do you not even propose that there should be minimum taxation? Please, a little coherence. You also advocate harmonization. In what? In the guy, yes, but not in the minimum tax? By the way, the overall rate of the IS here is higher than the overall average rate of the EU 28, right?, which at 2019 was 21.7. Harmonization with whom? With the common territory? We will be coordinated between the three historical territories, which for that we have the OCT, and we will seek to be aligned with Europe. We don't look at... We look from Euskadi to the world, without having any need to align ourselves with state fiscal policies. And one thing I say to you: harmonisation is not synonymous with uniformity. It is also curious that, in all these measures, you compare Euskadi's fiscal pressure with that of the EU. Have you compared that of the common territory to that of the EU? Spain is among the countries that have reduced their overall fiscal pressure in the last 12 years, and in the IS – in corporate tax, pardon – its reduction is higher than that of Euskadi. And what do you say about Euskadi's average effective type in the IS? This has been increasing in the last ten years by six points, while in Spain only 3.5 points has been increased. We believe that these changes are a toast to the sun, charged with political opportunism. Reforms have to be made from a serious, deep and calm debate. Something that has also coincided with the Banco de España, and I quote literally from the Governor's appearance: "The ongoing economic recovery still has obvious symptoms of fragility and is subject to considerable downward risks, which do not suggest a general increase in fiscal pressure at this time. Therefore, it might have been preferable to delay the introduction of some of them, until our economic recovery was more robust. Spain needs a thorough comprehensive reform of its tax system." We are therefore surprised that an urgent tax review is needed in Euskadi, and not in Spain. And very illustrative in this regard is that in the submission of the State General Budgets for 2021, the Government, to which you are a party, said that it would not address in-depth tax reform until it overcomes the current health crisis and regains economic stability. Could you explain to me, Mr. Soto, the difference in emergencies? Why is tax reform urgent here now, and not in common territory? A reflection that also transferred to EH Bildu. Will the fiscal model that Bildu defends in Nafarroa to agree on budgets be the same as the one that is defended here? Will they play the same game? No, no, Obviously not. Because while there, in Madrid or in Navarre, with less social and progressive budgets than those we have in Euskadi, you offer to collaborate and to agree, here in Euskadi we only have zanadillas and portals. While in Madrid you already have the yes to the budgets, here you will have already prepared your amendment to the whole, without giving an opportunity to dialogue and without seeing the numbers, which, I insist, are more progressive and social. Nor does it seem that they needed to know in detail the public accounts, because the answer was clear and the staged very well planned. And I'd like to be wrong, but parties are judged by their deeds, and seeing yours, I suspect that your position is not the same as that which you've had with Pedro Sánchez. There, if you don't see the figures, you'll probably be free to say yes. And probably not here. Who applies "rodillo" to who? Who puts veto to who? Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. We'll take the answers turn. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Soto, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u74	Well, for starters, Mr. Gordillo, I know you're from Citizens; but in any case, I have to mention one of the inheritances that the Rajoy government has left us. For starters, 40 tax hikes. That's right, not for the big estates or the big corporations, but for the less powerful classes. That's right, for big estates and big corporations, tax amnesty. By the way, the one that also wants to start up in Gipuzkoa. Tax amnesty. On the other hand, the debt you were talking about is an inherited debt, a debt inherited precisely from Rajoy's governments. It seems a lie that you put that conditioning here, above the table, when it is practically inherited from Mr Rajoy and his Government the situation in which we are in relation to debt. And here we are, in Euskadi, willing to increase the debt, beyond the debt that will be owed to the Government of Spain, taking into account the differences that exist, which are quite broad. On the other hand, you say that by increasing the level of spending, it does not increase the collection. Yeah. To the extent that we increase the level of public expenditure increases the capacity for collection, because it is a multiplier effect; I have commented on it in the previous intervention. To the extent that public expenditure is increased, wages exist, as a concrete example..., there are people in the public administration who have salaries as a result of a public procurement approach, and there is the option of raising higher incomes through this increase in expenditure. In addition to the fact that leadership from the Public Investment Administration allows for an increase in the productive capacity of the country, there is therefore more capacity for collection. Which certainly doesn't... What is, of course, a mantra, and I said it to you in my first speech, is to say that, to the extent that we do not increase taxes, saving capacity stimulates the productive investment of the country. You don't give that reality. When we do not increase taxes in view of the fact that savings encourage the productive investment of the country, neither does it increase the collection, nor does it increase the productive capacity or the productive investment in the country, because such savings are usually linked to economic interests linked to the financial world and to the securities market, which is basically where we emphasize in relation to tax reform. Because, in fact, the tax reform that has been mentioned at some point and which we are presenting this Monday, in its fundamental section, addresses a fall in rates for the sections that are least available in this country. That is to say, we do address a reduction in the tax burden for those who have less income; but, in turn, accompanied by increases for higher incomes and also in corporate tax. Therefore, I do not understand very well why he speaks that we, in our tax reforms, never contemplate tax reductions for those who have less. If we have, and a few days ago. He has talked about other issues relating to the regulation of rents; but that, in short, is nothing to bring us Francoism. All European capitals are addressing the regulation of rents in stressed areas. I don't know where it comes from that's something that comes from franchising. I understand that you, too, like the law of soil, which, in fact, led us to the financial crisis of 2008, also raised, by the way, by the People's Party, its partner in government. With regard to the Socialist Party, we do not think they have as clear the horizon they have regarding fiscal policy, because you have mentioned tax reforms, the last two tax reforms, the 2013 and the 2018 ones, and both raised reductions in the corporate tax rate. Yes, yes... Yeah, yeah, both of them, they both raised it. In fact, there is a very illustrative image of it by signing the People's Party and the PNV that tax reduction, with the representative of the Socialist Party watching them come. Therefore, we do believe that, in that sense, you do not have very clear where you want to go in relation to fiscal policy. And if not, make it clear to me. Because they also talk about rationalising spending, when a list of investments has been sent to the central government, requesting increases in the items of TAV or Supersur as well. And with regard to tax reform in the State, which was mentioned by the PNV representative, well, we can politically put forward a horizon for the future in relation to tax reform far more ambitious than that which has now materialized. Yes, it is that if we propose in our electoral programme a much more ambitious tax reform than has been proposed, but we are aware of the arithmetic and also of our presence in the central government and of the limitations that this entails in order to achieve the political objectives that we as a formation have. But that does not mean that here we cannot do exactly what we do there, which is to push towards the horizons that, in our opinion, are the most appropriate. Therefore, I do not think that we should limit ourselves exclusively to what is possible; we must fight beyond what is possible, in order to achieve the horizons that we set ourselves. I don't know why you propose that this is the mirror where we have to look. And since I don't have any more time, well, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u75	Please finish... Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mist shouldn't be part of. Representative of the EH Group, Mr. Rodriguez, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u76	Congressman, thank you. Bai, starting with Mr Gordillo of Citizens; you asked what neoliberalism is, who hears us talk about it permanently but no one so far, right?, has succeeded in defining it. Well, look, your intervention is a good synthesis of what it is and it's neoliberal policies. Neoliberalism is, as I said before, cutting public services, cutting basic services... Neoliberalism is to privatize those same public services to leave them in private hands, so that they can do, say, business and profit from what should be, as I say, public services. Neoliberalism is to mercantilize health, to mercantilize the care of our elders, to mercantilize, in short, each and every facet of life. Neoliberalism is lowering taxes on the rich, the rich. And, if any, raise them to the poor, through indirect taxes. That's all neoliberalism. Neoliberalism is also capitalism for the poor but socialism for the rich, because to the neoliberals, to you, the state is left, except when it comes to rescuing those above, the owners of capital, so that in this way it is the ones below who pay for the crises that those above generate and contribute to generate. Mrs Corcuera insisted and said that it is not time to raise taxes, because this would harm, right?, economic recovery. Look, I'm telling you the same thing as Mr. Gordillo: we're not talking about raising taxes to everyone. No, no, no, no... If it is very easy to understand: we are talking about raising taxes to those who have the most, who have the most and who are not using what they have the most to invest, and to those companies that are getting profits, as I said before, obscene, obscene, in which it can end up being the biggest economic and social crisis of the last decades. We're talking about raising taxes on those, and only on those, so once and for all, they're pulling their shoulder, which is what they usually like to say. Let them bow their shoulders, let them show solidarity, and let them contribute to paying even part of this crisis, which they too have contributed to generating. Because, as I said before, behind and below the situation we are suffering, there is not only a virus, uh, there is not only a virus; there is a series of neoliberal policies that, for decades, have devastated health, education, etc., etc. And those dusts, these muds. And the PNV representative says she doesn't understand why we keep asking, insisting, asking, so that next year's budgets are expansive, so that they don't have cuts, if that's what we're being assured over and over again and being told, right? It says: "We have already said that these budgets are going to be expansive. We have already said that there will be no cuts, why you keep insisting and asking." I don't know, because that's exactly what you've said each and every one of the last few years, and because for every one and every one of those last few years there have been cuts. Look, I'm going to give you an example that comes to mind because of the situation we've been through these past few months. In the last ten years, the government, its policies, have cut 10% of hospital beds. Ten years. And now, as I said before, we pay for the consequences. I was saying that perhaps "birria" is not the agreement you reached in the Joint Economic Concert Commission, but that reached Euskal Herria Bildu with the Spanish Government; because, in the end, it is an agreement, isn't it, you said, that it is not known whether it remains in force or whether it is going to be breached. I say that of non-compliance with agreements something you must recognize them, that is, you know; because, well, considering that the Statute of Gernika – that agreement you always claim – has already reached more than 40 years and remains unfulfilled, I understand that you and you know something about that. And they say that they are happy that we are now imitating them in Madrid and that we are going to Madrid to do the policies of the PNV. Look, I'm telling you one thing: don't be mistaken, don't be mistaken, because you've gone and you're going to Madrid to beg CAP and tax holidays; we're going to Madrid to take out social and labour rights. Yes, you, you, have gone to Madrid for decades to support the regime for the benefit of a few of your own. We are going to Madrid to definitely overthrow that regime, for the benefit of the majority and the people. And... They say we make deals in Navarrean and Madrid and not here. Now, considering that you are in the government of Navarro, you must ask yourselves whether you are not in trouble? For in Madrid they are in Navarre, and if we are able to make bargains, why are we not here?" Wouldn't it be that you're the ones who're incapable of making deals here? First of all, with yourselves, and only with yourselves, because you speak. And, to continue, it's obvious that you're not qualified to be more than among yourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u77	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u78	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, let's see where I start. I, the truth, Mr Soto, is that, unlike what you do other times, I have come here to talk about your book, about your GNP, in this case motion, about the proposals you make and so on. To me, this mess between one bench and another, to see who gets to be more nationalist than the other, who makes more stories than the other, who is more triler than the other... well, look, this is something that we don't have to deal with. I have a lot of fun when I see them, but the truth is, I think this has to be analyzed with the seriousness it deserves. Let's see. It is that the proposal that you make does not cease to be, therefore, a summary, a set, of the typical mantras, these typical mantras of... the state is all-powerful and, therefore, will solve all problems; debt fixes everything; neoliberalism is bad. We have already understood that, since neoliberalism is me, I imagine that what I meant was that neoliberalism is evil, for I am evil. Well, nothing, hey, evil... Privatizations, confusing arbitrarily and also uninformed, that I miss, because, man, this, right?, can be studied easily; of this I also have some published cossilla, but one thing is the public procurement, the provision of a service, directly, by the administrations... I'd love to have a debate on this a little longer. He has missed the question of fiscal sovereignty, because they are typical concepts that come out a lot; he has missed the question of fiscal sovereignty by taking it out, to see who ends up appropriating it from one side or another. Look, I am serious about the issue of GNP, or of the motion, which has already advanced to you, as I said before, that we will vote against it, is that it does not respond to what should be a budget or what should be an economic policy in a situation like the current one. Making an economic policy that only thinks of a higher interventionism in the economy, with an increase in debt, with expenditure that is not going to correspond with long-term income to recover, is that there is nowhere to take it. Come on, I think, honestly, I really believe, honestly, that that's not going to get us anywhere good. Those measures you propose are not good for Euskadi; they are not good for Spain. And we in that are going to oppose each other head-on. You used to say to me, "No, it's that taxes are always raised to big corporations and so on." Or, excuse me, "that they go down to the big corporations, they go up..." It's that it's the usual mantra. Look, the problem of Spain, which is a historical problem – and here, Euskadi does not get away with it either – because it has to make a reform, but in depth, of what is its administrative structure. It needs to make a thorough reform of its procurement processes. It has to make a thorough reform of the labour market. You have to make a thorough reform of a lot of issues. Of course, when we talk about labour market reform, some talk about one thing, others about another. When we talk about a reform of economic policies, one thing or another. And when we talk about reforms too, then, about policies in the incentive fund, because this is where you, I believe, in my humble opinion, I believe, or I have not explained myself well or you are wrong. Because competition – which you denigrated a moment ago, competitiveness and so on –, look, competition is very positive for the consumer. A well-understood competition is very positive for the consumer, because it prevents the incumbents and large companies from abusing their dominant position. That's one thing that's clear. The OECD, which has previously referred to it by Mrs Berrojalbiz, as it has reports... What happens is that now that it is the OECD together with the G20, it also scares him to see the reports, but it has shown that those countries where there are really developed competition policies, because there is greater human development. Well, the economy goes up, taxes are generated. This recipe that you have told me here seems wonderful: the increase in public spending increases the collection. Man, of course, but not in the same proportion. He says, "No, it's that the increase in public spending..." Look, of course, it's just... Well, nothing, hey, we give the little machine to make euros, and see what happens. And let's see what happens. Some experiences: Weimar Republic, and so on. But, hey, we give the machine to make euros to see what happens. I believe, therefore, that in these matters we really must be serious and, above all, send a message, and send a serious message that there are measures, in addition, in order to be able to implement, therefore, all that has to be done to recover the economy and employment, which is what has to come now. And finally, the issue of neoliberalism and ordo-liberalism. Look, Ordoliberalism, which is the economic model that exists today in Europe, is a model that admits freedom of enterprise, something you do not like, with social policies, something you do like, as long as you control them, with free competition, and that there are fully independent authorities that control it. Look at the models, for example, of the Nordic countries, where, on the one hand, there is free dismissal; but, on the other hand, it is compensated by really interesting social policies. That is why I say that you demonise the company, you demonise the entrepreneur, you demonise any attempt to boost the market, so that, precisely, jobs are created, economic activity is created, taxes are created in order to finance all social policies, which we can agree on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u79	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u80	Thank you, President. Good. On the budgets, I would like to make it quite clear – and it has been said publicly – that these budgets for 2021 will be budgets for the reconstruction and economic and social transformation of Euskadi; that no cuts in public policies will be envisaged; that austerity will be completely ruled out; and that the major challenges of energy transformation, digital transformation will be addressed; and that the resilience of our welfare state will be strengthened to mitigate those inequalities that every crisis generates. Therefore, on the basis of this question, some people were telling us, on the part of Mr Soto, that many empty words had been said here, right? Well, then, you make a toast to the sun. Look, he's got us, I don't know if he's "threated," in quotes, with bringing us a bill proposal for surcharges. I have already told you: look at what your partner brought, because she was already debated and rejected. Look at it, because it is not something new that we see in this House. You have spoken of regressive budgetary policies. Listen, you voted for the 2020 budgets, which came out with the vote of Elkarrekin Podemos, not the vote of the United Left, with the vote of Elkarrekin Podemos. So, that "empty words" and "advices sell, but for me I don't have," because, I don't know, it takes a little bit of a break from the situation that you've come to tell us here today. He said, "No, no, it's that you lowered the corporate tax rates." Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I'm going to pass you a little paper because I brought it here and it's not one of those expensive – it's from DIN A-4 recycled – that's going to leave you, I think, the clearest things. What was done was to raise the effective rate of corporation tax; deductions were removed, exemptions were removed... So, don't say things that aren't. On the part of Euskal Herria Bildu, right?, you have eaten in the compromise amendment that of economic and financial sovereignty. It's not on; it's not on. It was in your amendment, but it's not in the transaction. Well, by the deal you have to leave things in the catera, then, the same; but, of course, then, do not teach us how to agree bilaterally, that those are "birrias". Man, no. When you leave those hairs in the catera, then you can't affect [Keinu bat egin du skuarekin]. You said: "We want sovereignty to be indebted according to our capacity; we do not want subordination, we do not want submission to Madrid." And Europe? And if we really get to sovereignty, neither does Europe. We don't listen. It's okay. Europe does not exist. Finally, I think we need to take a little bath of reality; at least a bath of reality: where we are in economic matters and in which world we live, right?, and on which planet we live, and what economic relations and political relations are like, at least in Europe. You said, "No, no, the climbs for those who really have economic capacity and earn a lot." And I'm making an approach. Why never did Bildu, in the last budgetary negotiations that were devoted to the topic of spending and to trying to increase spending on certain items, let's say, social, right?, and there they set their priorities... Why didn't you ever talk about income? The last ones, of course, weren't... Neither the 19th nor the 20th budgets... These were not the issues that Bildu raised in the budget negotiation. And, therefore, if they are so important, damn it!, when the time comes to negotiate, let's make them worth it, let's make them worth it! What I really hope is that this debate has served us to clarify positions, to pick up where we are each in these new circumstances and to be able to face the budgetary debate by 2021, well, with certain positions and margin, right?, of negotiation. I hope that, because if this debate has served to say what we have each and so far we have arrived and this is the margin we have, which is none, well, I hope that this is not an excuse to set the path of detachment for future budgets of 2021. In any case, the position, of course, of the Basque Socialists will be to face budgetary negotiations, of course, without vetoes, without exclusions, without a prioriism and, of course, with the best of spirits. We will spare no effort to reach, at least try to reach, broad agreement or broad consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Euzko Abertzaleak, Berrojalbiz andea, zurea da hitza. [Mikrofonoa itzalita hitz egin du]... it is thanks to the effort and the work developed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u82	We have a lot to do, yes. We must continue to progress and rebuild what this terrible pandemic is destroying. But, thanks to what the PNV has done for years and years, we have these quotas of economic-financial self-government, healthy accounts, with margin of indebtedness, with the ability to reallocate resources and a relevant muscle in health, education and social protection. And it's not my impression; rating agencies position us with an outstanding, an A rating. And in the issue of bonds published these days ago, the demand, with a lot of international investors, has been much higher than the bonds to be issued. All of this will serve to fulfil our commitment to put forward courageous, uncut and expansive budgets. We must therefore continue to work to strengthen our system and develop it, because the effort is well worth it, because we are working for the common good of our society, to which we also have to thank for the enormous effort it has been making in these very complicated months. Efforts, commitment and solidarity. We must follow the line of the coordinated struggle with the outside institutions against tax fraud; that such tax reform can be revised, once we see the results in economic and social recovery, through our programmes, such as Berpiztu, or the courageous budgets of 2021, in which the Basque Government is currently working. I would remind you that, on numerous occasions, the Council of the European Union has estimated that increases in direct taxation reduce the effective possibilities for economic growth. And this is what we consider: a rise in taxes would lead to impoverishment and could jeopardize demand, which is the opposite of what we want to achieve. We need to take re-launch and social protection measures. Therefore, courageous and uncut budgets, yes, of course; tax reform, too, but not now; we want a fair, progressive and equitable tax model, a tax that leads us to a more solidarity and fair Euskadi. The Government's programme shows a willingness to carry out a tax review, although this review must take into account the new economic reality that emerged following the crisis in COVID-19, the possible evolution in employment, the capacities and competitiveness of our companies, as well as the extraordinary contributions that are foreseen by the Government of Spain and in the corresponding proportion of the European Union. Both parties committed themselves to moving forward in the design of this new tax system and to reflect on the pending fiscal reform, appropriate to the new reality and geared towards greater progressivity in strengthening public services and supporting the employment-generating economy. A reform aimed at fiscal convergence in Europe and enabling it to adapt to the economy and emerging challenges, including environmental criteria. Replying a bit to the issues discussed in the previous interventions, Rodriguez jauna, ez donkazue lotsarik. I mean, you're telling me that we don't fight for self-government, for Euskadi's social and economic rights. Your vote in favour, without yet seeing the numbers of the General Budgets of the State. There, what's there? What's behind that favorable vote? What have you achieved with your favorable vote? We already know what we have achieved with our vote in favour. Okay. And from what I see, moreover, I don't think it's for the benefit of all Basque society; I hope it's for the benefit... What you achieve is for the benefit of all Basque society. What I really want is for there to be a little intellectual honesty. As for predisposition to agree here and there, and so on. The same predisposition two years ago to agree on Euskadi's budgets, when, after intense meetings, in the end, you set us up. And because of your refusal, Euskadi lived, to his detriment, an extended budget. We understand that we do not agree on everything. If it's normal. We have different models. I understand that EH Bildu will also not agree with everything the state budget says, right? For example, the increase in the departure of the Royal House, maintaining the Civil Guard in Euskal Herria, supporting the government delegate. Well, that, a different model than you have no problem accepting. What about here? Why not? You know this saying: pigeons in the street, wolves in the house. With regard to the transactional, I have read a sentence on which you want to equate the burden of capital gains with that of labour income. What should be looked at is the origin of those rents. Because the returns on mobile capital usually come from results already taxed on corporate taxes, which, moreover, if we increase the non-exemption to 100% proposed by the Elkarrekin group We can therefore increase double taxation. Therefore, to equalize one must have a global vision as a whole. And then, regarding that "you don't look in the mirror, and so on, in Madrid, that it's normal for you to have different visions here and there." But if you are the same political formation. If we did, the scream in the sky. But it is that, besides, Mrs Gorrotxategi, who told us that the PNV had two faces, because with this we confirm that two faces have you. We have a different political model, which is normal, which would have no meaning at all, and the population has reasserted a wager on our model and program, and the difference between them. So we have to keep our commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. The discussion is over, and we'll vote together for the middle-direction that Podemos-IUk and EH Collect has signed. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary is 48; the abstations are 0; white, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u84	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. After that, we'll vote for the Miststo team's full-line correction. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters 1, the contrary is 74; the abscesssions are 0; white ones; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u85	So he's not accepted. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eunciators. [[Pause]] It's wrong! I'm sorry. It's not... It's wrong. The script is wrong. Okay. Well, that's what he's doing. Five point in theme list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: The other proposal as a parlamentary group of Podemos-IU together about the Met of Donostia. The Moment, introduced by the parliamentary members of the group of the "Unai Fernandez de Betoño Saenz de Lacuesta EH." Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mr Martínez IIion represents the Podemos-IU team, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u86	Good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am. We have two different initiatives on the same subject to discuss at the same time, and, well, there is no open agreement in how we must follow this matter between different groups. The discussions of the motion movement in the Donostai and of the movement in other regions are always complex, because we have to satisfy all our desires and wish them. In this case, we had been very clear from our coalition long ago in the Donostoi, in the Bidasso, to renew the net between Irun and Alza and the Twenty-second. that it was a service of the century. They needed a good network of Euskotren, illeginando las sauras que creado el tu passo del tempora, install a double vía, so terrado y quidndo terroro para dovendo para públis que loes de latines de Urgente. "La optión que finamente se escogiio para Donostia, tenente, no era la más bara me la única, pero una realidad que conomos componomos passante y que se construdo part se sharba disstentiando, la aperción del famo de junio." For a few days before the accident the water and sand were leaking in at the front of the tunnel, and the workmen were in danger and were trying to cover it. In fact, one of those days before, it was a big fall inside the tunnel, and the ETS technicians found a hole in the street, but they didn't find it. And ETS didn't say anything. It was known that there was a hole in the eighth number of the bridge and street because there was no water in the house. He called a plumber, and when the plumber had gone down to the cellar to find the source of the damage, he found a big hole in which he had eaten the shoes in the building. And that's the plumber who gave the alarm, the alarm in advance by ETS... And because he didn't say anything. Between June and October 7th, what we have in public is a tunnel of time, in which we do not know what we were working on. We now know, in the last few weeks, that the Miraconcha-Easo contract will be terminated, due to the significant budget increase and that we will have to bid again. It's okay, obviously, but it doesn't seem good enough. Hortik's been drinking the race. Ezustako beat aurrean, lehenengo erreakzioa obek gelditzea da, noski. You're holding a one-hundred-one bermazzea, noski. It's proyektu berean berean berean, I'm apt to berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean berean Baina guk –a nuke hiritarrek orokorrean spinach – information eta datu guztiak behar ditugu. Before starting a new tendering and award process, the scope of the land characteristics that have impeded the development of the project in accordance with the initial construction project, as well as the reasons why this possibility was not included in the initial construction project, should be known in detail in a public and transparent manner. Surely, some data on this will be given by Unai Fernandez de Betoño. Therefore, as it is information provided by them in previous weeks, I will not enter into it. Eta horrexegatik, datu ezberdinak and balorazio ezberdinak ditugulako, eskatzen dugu auditia-txosten bat. Eta auditia-txosten horretan eskatzen duguna da: why were not sufficient and correct field studies incorporated? Why did not the alternatives as real as that few meters from the sea could exist sandy land and with water? And why were no alternative scenarios established? We also know that the contract for the project was awarded with a reduction in prices of about 30%, and the contract for the work with a decrease of more than 15%. This issue is not exclusive to this project; unfortunately, it goes too often in public procurement: award with lower costs. And the consequences that it usually has are consequences on the working conditions of the workers of these works and also, of course, the completion with extra cost. In the case of this work, did it have a direct influence on the problems that have been created? Well, we don't know. And this is why we demand that we make a serious and transparent form before we go on with the work. On the other hand, throughout the execution of the work, there have been endless complaints and protests about the lack of job security in the work, especially by subcontractors. She eventually filed 12 complaints with the Labour Inspectorate and the courts. Days of more than 19 hours a day were reported. And the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country gave reason, after the violation of fundamental rights, life and physical integrity, of the operators carrying out the transport and the movement of land in the works of the Top. This shows, and this is also what we want – in addition – with our initiative that will be corrected in the future, that neither ETS nor the Basque Government carried out their surveillance work, with regard to safety and with respect for the rights of the workers of the work. And it is more of a sample of a model that favors the benefits and maximization of the benefits of construction women in public works, based on precarious working conditions of workers. And this is what we demand: Fill that up in the new contract. The two aspects supported by the government, and also PP, in the medium by which they have signed, are said to exist, but they have not worked so far. Where's the control to guarantee that? And finally, too, the neighbours' complaints. Since the beginning of the work, they were not answered in the proper manner. In the course of the day and night, many of the inhabitants had been exposed to a painful situation for several months, for they could not rest well enough. In some cases, too, from home or... They had to leave their own houses because they were no longer able to endure the situation. In the correction we have received from the sects supported by the government, it is said that they will continue to pay attention to the neighbors. But, you know, neither the council nor the government paid any good attention until now. For all of these reasons, we keep our original initiative, we keep it, even though we know it won't come out. But we think that, if we follow the play, the Metro of Donostia and the work of that part, there must be a few minimum to be fulfilled. It is precisely necessary to make a auditorium of what has happened, so as not to happen again, that social clauses should be inserted, and to control the social clauses, better to say, we must establish the authentication mechanism, and we must guarantee worthy conditions of work, and give our neighbours the attention they require. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u87	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Fernandez de Betoulo Saenz de Lacuesta has his word in order to present and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u88	Good morning, everyone. Control-engage, we're getting information like oil, everything that's happening during the Donstrotic subway. And we intend to continue because we believe that everything that has happened has happened that they don't want to be charged with responsibility, technical or even politicians. And care, if there are, as we're showing. Anyway, today, we're here to present a motion based on the latest internship. He's trying to get the transportation department, but he's giving the information lowly. This little information is sometimes confused, sometimes directly false, as I have accused of in the previous volumes of control, and, furthermore, the greater part of the information is being concealed in a partial manner. And if that be little, the chief physician of the Arrians is continually endeavouring to divert his attention: Download, Galdakao, Leizan... I don't know what's missing, maybe Lemoi and cabbages, all through the metro of Donostical to cover the awful management of EAJ-PSE as a couple. I'll never repeat that it's a lie to the Miraconka-Easus-that 105 probes were made for the program. Since I accused him of this double check-up, the Chief of Arrians has ceased to repeat that number, and he remains a little ashamed. And the Arrian couldn't deny, because it's true, to make a project in 2016, only seven new probes were made. And these probes, at least in the holes in San Barthome, were left eleven-two yards above the metro tunnel, giving me very little information. They expected to find the stone, as the Arrian assured them, for what purpose should they study it more? No water or sand could be found there. That's right, the Arriola division declared something very strange in the final check, connected with the probes: The MRI MUST have done 80 rounds in New York. And he said it like it was normal. But what shows by this confession is that, apart from the fact that he had spent another unpredicted sum, he had determined about hubá, by the way, that the explosions on the project were not enough, as we had defended him here. Because once, from the beginning of the work, before the beginning of these 80 probes which the department had had to perform, in 2016, the three companies had taken it for this purpose. We have here, then, a clear concern, which is technical and begins with the project, and even what has happened in the work, we shall certainly have to investigate. And another rather clear, political care: Because ETS, who is subject to the department, had assigned the project with 28% down, working with 26%, and has not done enough public controls, either in the project, or in the work. And besides, now here, you want to act like nothing happened. And if it were only a short time to say that the Transport Department had made 80 probes in the final check, the head physician handed us another amazing piece of news hidden up until now by the head of the Arriolas: We're talking about 21,3 million euros more, 21.3 million more. I mean, at first it was a work of 64,5 million euros, and the Miraconcha-I'm only talking about the "Euso," it's already up in 21,3 million euros, that is, we're in 85,8 million already. 64,5 plus 21,3, 85,8 million euros, that is, 33% more. Well, that's probably silly. And the worst part is that we don't know how many millions of dollars are needed in the Mirakoncha-Easus from 2,000 meters in total, to finish the 450 meters that are still going to end that 22 percent of the work, at least 22 percent of the course. We don't know, and the chief physician of Arriola doesn't know. He warned me that there might be over 70%, but he wasn't sure it would be the amount. Besides, what 70%? Was he originally hired from the number 64,5 million? For if so, would we be speaking of 45 million more euros, including the VAT, or of the total number already engaged? For the 21st,3 million I mentioned before, have already been compromised, so that from 85,8 million euros, if it has to be calculated 70%, we are talking about 60 million Euros in the new overcose here. More sixty million euros, in the middle of the second wave of the coronabirus panic! Sixty million dollars could go to more beds and more doctors and nurses in our health system, to hire more teachers in our education system. Sixty million dollars could go to the adultes to give a more dignified attention, strengthening our guard service. Sixty million dollars could be given to host or culture. What might have gone to sixty million euros in our public transports, for example, to increase the frequency and to rescue the public transport itself, because it will unite the greatest deficit at the end of 2020. We think that at least 60 million euros and at least God knows how many people go in there don't have any brains or legs. I repeat what I have said in the previous controls: it is much more necessary to make a project without leaving the Topo of the Donostian Alza-Pasi Ancho-Grabour. There's a tunnel between Herrera and Pasadena Anchovy that's spent half a year with constructive problems. Before May, trains went by to 80, and from then on, you have to go through 30 miles an hour. So the old road has a very poor job of support, and the EAJ-PSE pair, while they're pushing the subway pharmaceutical at the center of Donostia. But PSE has noticed that we are right, it is far more important to improve the Topo than to make a expensive and expensive subway visiter. That's why they've announced that in the course of these days, in a rather propaganda way, the next year, God knows, they'll be liquidating the Alza-Pasa-Graborda project. We're glad to finally come over to our thesis and take steps to satisfy the real motion requirements of the Costian world. But in order that this step should be truly consistent, we think we ought not to communicate the work of the Miraconcha-Easus interval. That's what we're asking for in our motion. That the parliament should ask the "Mork" of the Companion of the Companion of the St. Donostea-that the newly-contradicted "Easo" should not be brought out to the public contest, as long as COVID-19's pandemies continue, and that all the public money necessary for the end of the work is 60 million, 70 million, 80 million, we do not know how many millions of millions, to begin with the effect of the Panademademade, to establish and strengthen the former measure, that millions of health, education, and other public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u89	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, Mrs. Larre, representative of the Basque Popular Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u90	Thank you. I said it two weeks ago: beyond ideologies, it is a reality that Gipuzkoa needs as May water to launch a metro service that gives service and integral connection from Zumaia to Zarautz, passing through San Sebastián and reaching Hendaia. The Gipuzcoans are first class Basques. It seems that for the lords of Bildu the fourth line or the fifth metro line of Bilbao is important; however, the only line of Donostialdea is not. According to you, do the Vizcains deserve better connections than the Gipuzcoans? You'll make this clear to me... And it gives me the feeling that they want to mix concepts. Is using public transport by rail not a way to protect the environment? You said in the last full of control that, for the Gipuzcoans, it was better to invest in more bus lines than on a metro line, and it gives me the feeling that different theories apply according to the territories; that is, the green ideology is valid for Bizkaia, it is valid for Gipuzkoa, it is not valid for Bizkaia: I don't know, they are things that miss me. And it gives me the feeling that they are getting hit by what has happened to the PNV lords for years, that in the Basque Country there is only Bizkaia. And now I'm going to be tangled up and I'm going to say certain things, and I don't want to go into detail. But, for example, what happened to European funds? That with the more than 10 billion euros that will arrive here, to the Basque Country, for example, to San Sebastián would only allocate 55 million, and I can put another example with Álava, for example, territory to which all the inhabitants of the rural areas aim to lose, because they do not even have a health centre or a weekly care shift in the village or an ambulance, and that, in case of emergency, they arrive before by private car than by ambulance. But, well, go on and on. But, apart from the management between territories that the PNV governments have been carrying out for years, we have been defending the need for a metro line that unites the Gipuzcoans, and today we agree to make a criticism in the management of those works that have been carried out by the Urkullu governments, but that criticism does not blind us; we know what our goal is, and I will repeat it in case it has not been made clear: Gipuzkoa needs a metro line at the height of a first-rate province, and the intern we are talking about here today is one of the steps to achieve it. This does not mean that we are not vigilant in the management of this project. We're still squealing about it if we had to... that the previous project did not take into account a sufficient number of catalyses, so that a tunnel under one of the areas with the highest concentration of inhabitants per square metre would not suffer setbacks, that it would not pass through the head of those who made the project that there could be leaks of water and sand, that we are in an area with water and sand, and I do not explain how this situation can be overlooked. Let's see, the composition of the platform does not meet straight criteria; there may be different compositions at material level at the same level. That's what I don't explain to myself, because geologists know it, and they know what they're exposed to; architects I guess they'd know, too, with the measurements they'd taken. I find it difficult to believe that you, the gentlemen of the Department of Transport, were not warned; it is that we are always with the same thing: nothing ever happens, until it happens. So I think they're excuses. But let's put this aside, I once we've already... we have to redo the project, which is irremediable. Do so, taking into account the actual situation of the area in which the intervention to be carried out is located. And I will not deny that it does not generate some suspicion in my group, in my team, the budgetary increase announced by Mr Arriola in the previous full control, even in the press; but, listening to his explanations and keeping us alert, we continue to support a project that will change and enrich the way of moving from the Gipuzcoans, a project that will be resumed this time, let us hope that so, with the necessary measures not to repeat incidents such as that of Zubieta Street, cracks or leaks of water and sand. One has to think, and I put myself in the place of the neighbors, that, before a greater misfortune occurs, what we have in our hands is important: a crack or a collapse can lead to significant material damage, but even personal damage, so please put on the batteries. Nor is it necessary to guarantee, in the new documents, the working conditions of those who are going to carry out the work, the labour force; let us ensure those documents as far as possible. And they have to take into account the problems that have been causing the neighbors all this time, the neighbors and the merchants. I don't know if you have had the opportunity to walk through the streets affected by the play, on Zubieta Street; if you haven't, you can ask me, that I explain to you. I don't want to imagine the stress that the neighbors who live there suffer, but I want to tell those neighbors that I know that those works that they are now suffering will bring something much better for San Sebastian. I also know, but we must try to find a balance for all; to finish the works as soon as possible, to affect the least time to neighbors and traders, with a good development of the work, respecting the working conditions of the workers. And for this reason, we have negotiated an amendment with other groups, with the PSE and the PNV, and we believe that it is important that these... Pardon me, let this section be developed to continue with the works and with the development of an integral metro connection in Gipuzkoa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u92	Thank you, signor, Mr. President, chief physician, madam, members of the legislature, all good days. As a matter of fact, I think, at least, they talked of two different things-as well as the other propositions, and the motives-so on-and so on. I'll answer them in different ways. Starting with that of Podemos, and in the face of Mr Martínez's repeated wishes to have information, I would recommend to him that, instead, they ask some kind of question to the adviser in connection with this project, because to date they have not asked absolutely any question. If they had done so, it is very likely that they would have obtained answers that would have prevented us from being here today by wasting time, talking or discussing issues that are already taking place. First of all, on the audit report which you are requesting, the adviser said: at the project stage, 115 surveys were carried out throughout the basement, 50 geophysics profiles; in particular, also tomography studies, which was a technique that was the first time it had been used in an urban environment. Taking into account that the usual ratio in an urban tunnel project is one probe every 100 linear meters of tunnel, for this particular one, the number, understood as the usual ratio, should have been five probes, compared to the 35 that were carried out; therefore, seven times more in total and more than four times more, as regards the new specific probes carried out during the works. It is therefore clear that there is no need for any type of audit. As regards the current situation – again, again – of certain circumstances or questions that you point out, Mr Martínez – in particular, as regards what you point out in the second point, of the inclusion in the new social clauses leaflets, I will tell you that the works contracts that the public body Red Ferroviaria Vasca-Euskal Trenbide Sarea is proposing are currently governed by the Law 9/2017 of 8 November on Public Sector Contracts. They therefore incorporate all the social clauses and control mechanisms established by that law, and with which, of course, this Government is perfectly strict. In addition, social, environmental and other conditions affecting solvency requirements have been incorporated. I am not going to tell you, because I understand that if you asked the corresponding question or requested the corresponding information, you would get it there. Obviously, it is always required to comply with the legal, regulatory and conventional provisions in force in the fields of labour, social security, and occupational safety and health. In addition, there is the possibility of requiring and providing the optional address with data and documents relating to the working conditions of each of the working persons. Data that, among other issues, must be provided within seven days... To pay throughout the performance of the contract the salary covered by the collective agreement, without under any circumstances the salary to be paid being lower than that. That is to say, a number of conditions which I believe you should be aware of, and which, in the case of the Donostia railway intern and the tendered sections of Lugaritz-Miraconcha and Miraconcha-Easo, those conditions are not only attached, but are also required to a greater extent. And I can assure you, and you can make the relevant request for information, that it is strict, on the part of the building management and on the part of the Government, in the request for that information and in the control of the technical development of the building. As regards the inclusion in the new schedules of control mechanisms, I believe that with the entry into force of Law 9/2017 of 8 November, the schedule of particular administrative clauses that employ ETS incorporates them very much. And, of course, I'm not going to repeat them either, because I understand that you too should know them well. Therefore, in addition to this, there is undoubtedly the power of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate to monitor compliance with the regulations in the social order. Every time there has been a complaint, I know that they have drafted the corresponding draft, and that, of course, that will in some way also be available to trade unions. And as for the establishment of mechanisms to minimize the conditions and discomfort of neighbours, let me tell you that there are several; these have been actions both by the Government and by the companies that have obtained the tender for these works. First of all, we have the Office for the Care of Citizens, called TOPOgune, located at the Amara station, responsible for collecting and coordinating complaints and complaints related to the works, in addition to street communicators put by the contracting company itself, which also carry out the same work. Acoustic reports, which, by the way, to take into account a data; in June 2018 the preoperative acoustic situation of the 16 sensitive urban points in the plot was initially evaluated. Interestingly, 14 of these points exceeded the reference levels, but not by the effect of the work, but by the road noise. In short, I believe that all that you demand is already being done. It is also demanding with those premises. And the Government, in this regard, I think it is doing its job perfectly. In any case, I would like to ask you, because I would like you to clarify it, whether you really are in favour of that project or not, because I think it would also be quite enlightening. As for EH Bildu's motion, I have to admit that when I read his initiative in the terms that it is written I am absolutely ojiplatic. I have to admit it because it was. With the initiative that they have presented today, they only once again demonstrate their animativeversion to the progress and modernization of this country. One more time! At the same time that the Basque Government announces more expansive budgets, despite the complicated situation we are experiencing, budgets to deal with the crisis and that Euskadi does not suffer any setback in any of its areas, the way you are using or want to apply to overcome that crisis is, as always, paralysis. Have you stopped to think about the economic consequences that would result from the termination of the contracts of this strategic project? Have you made the check? Do you think that the best formula is to have to compensate the contracting companies, as you did with the energy recovery plant in Gipuzkoa, which cost the Gipuzcoans and the Gipuzcoans 45 million euros, because you simply didn't like that project? Why do you give up Donostialdea's subway, and not other projects? Why do they give up a project that also involves urban regeneration, for example, of Pasaia, through the Altza-Galtzarborda project? Or is it that you agree, uniquely and exclusively, with one part of the project, and with another not? Why do you want to renounce that a high percentage, more than 60% of the population of Gipuzcoana, has a means to facilitate their movement to their workplace or university? Why do you want to give up a safer and more sustainable environment? To a means that makes it easier for pedestrians to gain space to the detriment of the private vehicle? Why do they constantly land on a project that is already advanced, while they dedicate themselves to papering the walls of Zorrotza and Errekalde in Bilbao with this sign, in which they celebrate that line 4 of the Bilbao metro is getting closer and closer? Why? Why do they decide that this project should be abandoned, and others should not? What would you say if another parliamentary group represented in this House registered an initiative calling for the elimination of aid, for example for certain groups, for culture or for language policy, to be devoted to other issues? What would you say? I believe that, in this matter, we must be far more serious and far more responsible, all of us, absolutely all of us. Indeed, the Government in the development of the projects entrusted to it, but also the opposition, making proposals that are duly substantiated and that are not based, solely and exclusively, on the easy discourse of demagoguery. No mistake. Don't make a mistake! What you say you stand for has been denouncing it for a very long time. This is what they usually do absolutely with all the projects that involve progress and progress for this country. They also did so with the Bilbao metro, which they now ponder, and which, at the time, you said that that was not going to solve the transport problem that Bilbao had. Ask yourself the same question 25 years later, with all that you have assumed for mobility, not only from Bilbao, but from the whole environment, from the whole province of Bizkaia, an infrastructure like the Bilbao metro, to which you opposed at the front, in the words of Herri Batasuna's own spokesman at that time in Bilbao City Hall. Anyway. Of course, listening to a few speeches from some opposition representatives, I believe that this Government, in view of the fact that you seem to know a great deal more than the technicians who have drafted the drafts, should start to think very seriously about the drafting of the drafts by the opposition groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u93	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u94	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, congressmans, good noon. It is true that the legemies caused by COVID-19 have forced all the institutions to adapt their budgets, and that we must pay special attention to the weakest persons and the wants of this crisis. But if we do not forget this, and say that this must be so, we cannot abandon the bets which this people ought to be able to continue its development. And about the industry, we have developed a deep culture for centuries, but we have also to make a special attempt to endure development, and this is what we're dealing with for the last years. There have been many steps, and they have been productive; but, well, we must confess, even at this moment, and all the facts say that the greatest damage to the environment is due to transportation? that there is a great contagion produced, and that though we take measures we have still a great deal to do in this matter. And, further, our society is highly valued to have different powers of motion, and to have different possibilities, understands it as a factor of vital quality, and we believe that the existence of an appropriate railway net is of the most important importance, starting from the tram to the nearest train, the subway, or the high-speed train? And we place the Sanstian passengers here because we're convinced that we're going to have a big step in the tolerable motion, not just for Donostia, but for all the Gipu. We must be aware at the moment that the process of treatment and data are thus saying that the use of the private carriage is very high in this area, and, well, not only in this field, but we are talking about that area today. And we believe that we must give an answer to it, so that the ecology and patience we have so often spoken of may not be left alone in words. Besides, we hope to reduce this use by changing the infections, and at the same time, for example, that number of visitors now suffering from Mother's station will be relieved, because they will receive many visitors from the province. These will be much easier to get to college or to the Radio Center. And besides, such works start from data, and the facts say at the moment that we can understand it as a rule on this axis, that there are 23 million voyages a year, or perhaps no more? Then, even to get a car out of the town of Donostia, I think it'll be a very valuable result, and it's only to be seen that so many street traffics are closed at the moment while the works are being done, the City Hall has advanced, after the works are over, that it's her intention to have a wide center only for the passers-by, and even that, when the Eison is buried, it's the chance of all that land's going to be left on it, even when Donesti's over, we think it's a very important matter. Today, as I have said, we have two initiatives about the same subject: one, the other legal proposal, registered on October 9th, and the next motion of a 15-day interpelation, which has been introduced by the Basque People in the hands of the Collectors. At the first meeting in the control, Podemos said, together, no, I'm sorry, EH Collect asked the question. This may be the initiative that Podemos introduced together. Seeing this, the Basque Country says: "Well, then, I'm going to interpelation, and so I'm going to introduce the motion." And it seems like it's a race to see who brings this thing to this tribe, right? But yet they are of very different quality, and I dare say, Mr. Marsin, that your proposition is rather a builder, even if it has been explained, and that the things you ask for have not, perhaps, too much sense already, because they do? You asked for an audience about what had happened, why some geological examinations had not been made in their own time, but these investigations had been completed, so that we do not think it very reasonable to demand it. It is true that the work has not been developed the way it was anticipated. During the last few months there has been problems, because of the nature of the earth or of the earth, the problem has arisen. But the land was examined, and it was said that more than a hundred samples were made, and that in this piece of land where there was trouble, there was about 35, isn't it? But, well, until we make a tunnel, it's impossible to be sure what we're going to find down there. And to create trouble in a work is often bad luck. I'm not going to say that things can't be done better, but, well, it's not a problem either, is it? That's where it comes from, and what we have to do is find a solution, and that's what's going to happen. And it has been shown several times, well, that seeing what changes should be made, a new project will be made, because the law requires it, reassign it again, and all this with all its laws and transparency. I'm just trying to get social Klausula into guarantees of workers' conditions, that's all. and to create as little trouble as possible for the inhabitants of the country and for the merchants as possible. And even until now, they've tried the City Hall. And, on the other hand, what does EH Collect want in one-point motion? Well, to stop the works, and use the money to be used for that allocation in response to the needs created by COVID-19. Well, Mr Fernandez de Betoulo, that's the same thing as ever. In the end, in the presence of so many public works, the same attitude as that of the patriotic left hand historically. And, well, at least in that, we have to say that you're cohere because you always do the same. And how do you solve the issue? What's the problem? Nothing done? Leave that like this? Leave the holes like this or put some cement in it, cover the holes, and all? Shall we leave it like this? Well, I don't know, that's not our style, and we don't leave things like that, do we? Of course, I'm surprised that this is a conclusion... In your interpenetration, and even today's speech, I confess that you have made your technical and very technical cognitions, and you have several times mentioned technical deficiencies, you have mentioned today that there may be political cares. But when all this has been said, it follows that this proposition has been a single point's motion: that this money ought to be used in answer to the necessities caused by the headband. I don't see any logic. I think you ought to propose how to make this work or this problem. Or, for once, say that even if you give all the explanations or information that are given, it will not be enough for you that the problem is not a problem in the work, and that you do not agree with the project itself and in point of fact. That's it, not at last. Then why go all this way here? But the government will act with care, and it is also in its own interest, and will act carefully, and it will do the public administration and policy with care. Then, we said, and it's been discussed that we've come to a deal. We want you to give this a proper answer from the fun: reassign the work, complete it with all its guarantees, and end it as quickly as possible. And in front of it, Mr Martínnez, I'll tell you the truth: I expected, on your side, to get into this deal. And I don't really know where the reason is; I don't think you agree with the contents, but perhaps you didn't want that photograph. And EH Collector, well, I think I've told you enough. The usual: on the other hand, in these matters there is much to be expected, and, I believe, political imprudence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. The next answer is, the representative of the Podemos-IU team together, Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u96	Yes, thank you. Well, for responding to some of the things that have been said in the gallery, and well, the lady... I always say the same thing, but I think we will also have to invent the formula of full control of the parties that support the government to the parties that we are in the opposition, and also by some statement made to me by Mr Andueza. But it's true that those questions are being asked... But we've been in contact with ETS, and we've asked for the information. And if, of course, because of the way they currently have so old-fashioned ways of operating certain public enterprises, you have not sent them directly, information that should be hung on the Internet and accessible to all citizens, and we will record the relevant questions. Don't worry about that part, but I think... well, in the public information part of public enterprises, we still have a lot to go on, and I think that information should be accessible to all citizens. And if you want, then we can also give you the answer, via email, of the company. "Con nuestra inlicativa, y por qué no hemos entrado, que me decía la representante de Nacinalis Vascos." Porque believers la propuesta... Yesterday or... yes, yesterday, in that proposition Mr. Adezana sent me, it was the same as your original proposal. I think you added your work as quickly as possible. And what we're asking is that before the work goes on, there's a report or a hearing about what's happened... Well, put everything on the table, put all the lights on it. And what surprises us is that, without knowing it, all things are still unknown, and without the circumstances of the new project, as the chief physician of the Arriolas says, that about 50 percent. I do not have enough information to say that it is going to be 50%, I do not even have to say it, of course, but we want to make our statements and our political positions, having all the information and an analysis of the technical responsibilities and, if any, of the management of the project. In addition, I say it again, if any, and I think I have used a similar term in my first speech. Therefore, we want us to have all the information on the new project before we start and we want it to be allowed, and that is why we have not entered into this transaction with the parties that support the government and with PP-Citizens. And it has nothing to do with – it's usually a vest that since PNV and PSOE is used a lot – we don't have the same position on this issue as Euskal Herria Bildu, as it's been public for a long time. Nor does it seem to me any drama that two leftist formations do not have the same position on all the issues, because, if not, we would be in the same coalition, and therefore, nothing happens, do not see ghosts where there are no ghosts, and my relationship with Mr Fernandez de Betono will follow exactly as it has so far. Finally, for some of the things that have been said here and for some of the things that have also been said by the Transport Adviser, who has a greater responsibility than that of Mr Andueza on this issue, I believe that the two parties that support the Government would do well to lower the tone a little bit, when it is attempted to suggest that from the opposition there are conflicts between territories in the infrastructure section. And that's what has been said on the part of... Well, if you have not said so, Mr Andueza, we will review the minutes, but it has been said, and Mr Arriola too, looking in the trunk of memories of the historical problems we have had in the world of transport in Euskadi. Our position with this topic, with the mobility of Donostialdea and Bidasoaldea, and I have said this in my first intervention, is that we want the best Euskotren network from Donostia to Hendaia – I have said it again – which has to be forged in all places where technically it is viable, the part of the undergrounds that I have cited, the liberation of the lands that have to be made especially in Orereta and Pasaia... And I also said that this was not the only alternative in your day, but that right now it's the one we're running, and that, as you're going to keep going, our position, that of Elkarrekin Podemos and Left United with this, is that things are going to get better than what has been done so far. And the facts show that they have not been done as should be done, neither in the management of the work nor in the management of – you said – the social clauses. Well, they will be involved, but there is also a judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country that has condemned the management of this work in this regard, in labor matters. Therefore, our position on this matter is clear: as it is going to be done, it is going to be done well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u97	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo Saenz de Lacuesta has his word. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo Saenz de Lacuesta: Yeah. Hello again. As I said on the first round, we believe that in the second wave of coronabirus' Pandemade, at least 60 million dollars more public dollars to enter the Miraconka-Easo-Eas in the New Project, is not socially acceptable. We think, and I especially tell Mrs. Beragon, that there must be minimal works to make to ensure the safety of tunnels, of course you said a little cement here and a little cement to be made to guarantee the safety of the tunnels. For this reason we have made a full correction to the law proposed together by the law of Podemos-Euerda Unida. If we had to make a new or renewed work, we would see four points he had said, four points. But we believe that at this moment, and for reasons already explained, we ought to invest this millions in other places. And, consequently, we can only vote for their first point, where they require an examination or an audience of what they've done so far. And I'd say that to Mrs. Beragon: We believe that's one of the work of opposition to control the government. So we're just doing our job. And, as I was saying, we can't vote for the other three points, because we think it's not supposed to be a new work. And this I also say to Mr. Adezika: we do not say that the contract of the work ought to be vain; What we're saying here is that the new contract isn't supposed to be handled. I don't know if you've read the motion you've read, or whether we're standing up for the last three counties of control you've heard. With PP-Ciudadnos's manner, I must say that I have done a little strange in not correcting the law; And, above all, it's strange to us that, after a rather threatening "staremos vigilantes" in the first instance of the check, the chief physician of Arriola answered you with threats of della Rebbia, but also because he had written it because he had already been wearing the topcoat of 17,6 million, and yet he seems to care nothing about PPri, doesn't he? That they would bring exactly the same into their correction, if Arrius had said that they also have over 20, 30, or 40 million. We think it's a bit incomprehensible. I'll also tell Mr. Ariduza to talk a little to the chief of the Arrians because he has maintained that they have applied the contract here in 2011... I mean, the Public Sector Contract Act, and you've been talking about it a couple of times here in 2017. And this is one of the things we want to explain, what law has been applied to the contract of the work, because if it was signed before the 9th of March 2018, one applies and the other is followed. So I see between you, even between you, that you're not very clear. I'm not going to tell you anything about modernity and all, because I think you've gone to insult me a little. And I want to say yes or no, to be on the side of some projects and against others, I don't know, I don't think even kids understand, right? That it's quite normal. In your corrections, I must say, I find it very striking that you are not limited to the subway pass. You have entered to mention to yourself the improvement of the Topo, and have been obliged to mention to yourself the improvement of the Topo. And we believe that you've made a distraction by the work we're doing, because people are aware that what we're saying is true, the subway pass has been a partial caprice. And so now you say that apart from the Métro passant, Topo, you have to improve the Topo, you say in the correction of Pasai or Irun. But all is at the same time impossible, much less in the present state of crisis. You must choose: If we put 60 or 70 million dollars into the subway, the Topo's improvement will still be delayed. Let's not throw more millions of them out of the conjugation and the holes in Edaso, and in the second wave of the pandemade let us pay attention to the other priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u98	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Popular Group-Ciudad, Miss Larrea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u99	Thank you. We, I will repeat, but we are committed to sustainable mobility. The intern will remove, from the roads and streets of Gipuzkoa, many vehicles. And betting on sustainable mobility, getting off the roads vehicles, making there less noise in the streets of San Sebastián, so that people can use a subway line that satisfies them and that can move to work without having to use the private vehicle, apart from that, as the lady of the PNV has said, will bring many urban possibilities to San Sebastián, it is good for Gipuzkoa. And then to go in and explain why we have not tabled an amendment to the proposal from Podemos, because, listen, I'm just going to tell you that, in this position and in many, we are not going to be able to focus or we are not going to be able to think the same thing. So, listen, look, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño, we can't match; don't bother him... We are simply betting on the Donostialdea metro, and we will be tabling amendments when we believe that we have to present them and in the format in which we have to present them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mr. Aziza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u101	Thank you, ma'am. Look, Mr Martínez, what is sad is that from the groups we support the Government we have to control some opposition groups because they do not do their job. If you want information, what you have to do is ask it; simply and plainly, ask it, do your job... And if you ask, I'm convinced it will be given to you. What I don't understand is why you want an audit, if you have already written your own conclusions; I don't know why you want it, if you already have your conclusions made in advance. Finally, I, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, with absolute sincerity, tell you that you, in some way, want to be a judge and part of many issues. And in this one, once again, too. What I don't understand is why a socially unacceptable investment like that of the Donostialdea subway, and others, on the other hand, is unacceptable. Because you decide. It was not a question of debates on territoriality, but of criteria, criteria of opportunity and, above all, criteria for making projects that would enable us to move forward and modernize our country's infrastructure. I am convinced that, when the Donostialdea metro is a reality, you will not use it, as you do not use the Bilbao metro, as you do not use the Vitoria tram or as you do not use the Leitzaran motorway to go to your demonstrations in Iruña. I'm sure they won't. As always. The difference between you and us is that where you see spending we see investment in the future, an investment that also brings social benefits, because that issue, that aspect, is also analyzed. And we see an investment, which will also enable the construction of 500 social housing units and the generation of more than 6,500 square meters of green public space. We see that this can also be a social investment, in terms of a commitment for sustainability, for environmental integration, for the reduction of noise, for betting for underground solutions, for the reduction of emissions that are estimated at 23,500 tons of CO 2 per year or with a saving of even 30 million liters of fuel. That, for example, can be another social bet. Look, it's a bet for sustainability; because, after all, it's a bet for an electric public transport, without CO emissions. 2 Because it's more efficient. Because it's a much safer transport than the private vehicle. Because it's a much safer transport than the private vehicle. Because it's the most timely means of transport. Because it is the one that can provide the most flexibility when it comes to increasing frequencies. Because this expansion allows us to have much more abundant metro frequencies, which can also allow us to relax and adapt to any event, any exceptional circumstances, such as, for example, this one that we are currently suffering. Because, as far as accessibility is concerned, it is a barrier-free public transport for people with reduced mobility. Because it is a transport, also, much safer, by the conditions under which it develops and by the infrastructure itself, so that citizens travel much safer at night, and I do not want to go into more details. Anyway, because I think it allows to reduce the private vehicle in the center of Donostia-San Sebastián. Because it will allow the connection of many corners of Gipuzkoa, starting from Eibar and ending in Hendaia, of a very high percentage of Gipuzkoa's citizenship. Because it will allow thousands of students to arrive much faster, much cheaper, much more effective, much more sustainable, to many students at the university in Donostia. Exactly the same with many workers from nearby locations in Donostia-San Sebastián, who will be able to go to their workplace under the same conditions. In short, because I believe that this brings far more social benefits to the citizenry than the "no for the no", than the "no for the no", than the paralysis, and much beyond, if, as you have proposed here, the termination of certain contracts, so that that money... that hypothetically – or that sure, too –... It was going to cost this Government, because of the impact it would have on citizens in terms of non-compliance with such contracts. Therefore, I repeat to you and I repeat that, please, when you are going to bring here some definite proposals, one of two: either you work them a little bit more or, please, do not fall into the demagogue discourse, that in time we see you end up contradicting what you were defending in your moment, which is the "no", so that tomorrow you can say that at one point you also bet when, truly, you did not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u102	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u103	I won't deny you your work as an opposition. And, well, you'll see how to do that job. But, well, I'll give my opinion as well, as you do around the work we do as a team, or as you do around the management of the funk. I didn't invent anything, only said what had happened until I got here. And I don't think I lied, do I? Mr. Fernandez de Betocho, we're in the middle of the second wave, and if there wasn't any COVID? Why should we use that money? I don't know, I see a spot of a vacationerism there, don't I? By tradition, that's how you've behaved with so many infrastructure, isn't it? You always say that about the high-speed train, don't you? That money should go to social expense. Always justification is present: there are other needs, and that's what we need, isn't there? Say "we don't believe in this project," "we don't see very well," "we don't like" and dot. And then you went out... and yes, it is true that I have said very simply: Put some cement here and we'll close the holes. Okay. We can stabilize the tunnels, we'll have to spend some money there. And then what do we leave without using all the St. John's rear? No use? And now, that line we're gonna have to do, and it's just because you're asking for it? And what's that got to do without the Donostian passengers? People don't come from the land and the Renaissance? Won't they use the passant? You said the stage is a luxury, and the other is necessary, and the other has a social function apparently. If I go from Mendaro to the Radio Center, am I a luxury passenger? And the Red Center, right? Or what difference does it make? Actually, I don't understand. And you mentioned them, not me. And I don't want to go in here, in that artificial competition between country and country, because I don't know, I don't know... My country is the Basque Country, I don't want to enter it. But, Galdaoko, you said it and it's true. If you're on behalf of the Galdaoko. And Donostian passengers, no. What's the matter with EH Biltya? What's the problem? Do you have any problems? Maybe you should explain that, too, right? And on the other hand, what Arrunt Rodriguez said to you about the legislature? : public policies must protect people without leaving any one behind. And now, as it seems, the public policies which are in the service of a few seem to be made. Is it a public policy to make a train, or serve a few? And, perhaps, Mr. Rodriguez will answer us some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. [[Berber]] Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote together the original text of the proposition as well as that of the Podemos IU party. Hey, did you just order points? Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. How? Okay. Well, we'll vote for the first point... We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 42; the contrary is the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u105	So it's not accepted. After that, we'll vote for two, three, four points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters 6; the contrary, 62; abstainments, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u106	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the original text of Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo Saenz de Lacuesta. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters 21; the contrary, 48; the Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u107	So, not allowed the original motion text. And finally, we'll vote for the middle-term correction of the Basque Popular Group-Céanos, the Basque Sociists, and the Eucabertians. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters of the league are 48; the contrary is 21; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-12.u108	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and twenty-six in the afternoon.
