ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u0	Please be quiet. Before we begin, I inform you that the ninth point and the fifteenth point have been left for another purpose. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, The Universal Sea-Governs of the Companies of the Eubertarians, made to the Economics, and the Chief of the Ogas, in order to acquire the Euascilitation of the Euascillian Reformation of the World. " Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. Mr. Subaz, good morning. Today, at this meeting, we have a question addressed to you by the eubertarian group, a question on the application of the projecting and financing of the "Masquekadi" and the "Resilence" of the World and Europe. The Euskadi Next program will collect in the state resilence and resilence which is to be presented in the European Union the actions of Euscal Autonomy to the Esstibian, and will be the complement of the reperitivation of economics and employments. As you reported to the members of the legislature, you wanted to form a board of departments to perform, to coordinate, to do, to continue, and to evaluate the Euskita. And so it was, because it was founded on the 17th of November. The board will set up a model for talks and proposals, with other public administrations of Euskacade, and a collective and social intercourse, in order that the enterprise may be consistent with the several ranks of enterprises, so that it may be accepted and made successful by Euskádi close by Fred. So, as we see, this committee will have its standard integration with multiple-level sectors and collectives. We also know that this committee will continue the execution of the program and solve it, and that it will establish the tracking mechanism in order to ensure that the results are complete. In that ring, we're asking today. We know it is morning to demand profound explanations of this, as far as even in Europe the rules of gambling are defined. We also know that on the same day that this committee was formed you asked for a show of economics and taxations to explain this matter to all the groups of the legislature, which will be done on the 9th of next December. So at the moment we ask you to advance the steps given or given since this committee was formed, although on the 9th of December, the economics and the taxing committee, you will be able to explain the whole strategy to all the members of this legislature. The question, then, which the Eunpatarian questioneth you, is as follows: Can you explain the plan to get some European funding for the RRRRRR and RECA-EU? Thank you in advance for your explanation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Mrs. Berrojalbbiz, I'll try to summarize the plan by which we're developing the Euskalome of the Euskalgation in the name of the Sophration, which is in the Euskacacia. These funds are essential trains to make immediate challenges to come. Therefore, Euskadin can't let the opportunity pass if we want the permanent growth and the integral growth of medium and length. Besides, as a people, we would willingly seize the necessary modifications. I want you to know that Euska is going to run a special program for cooperation and a program with intelligent spirit to unite. Our challenge is that we can overcome particular views of the "Next 2021-2026," to create a common proposition in the country view. From my section, after we've formed a commission from November 17th, we've made more than ten encounters, and we've shared our view with other commercial organizations, economic and social agents. The Euskadi 2021-2026 program, the Next program, which is aligned while complementing the Berpiztu 2024 plan, collects two axes with four main components. The first axis is the country's transformative bets. These are strategic areas that seek to position and strengthen our power in sectors of the future that will leverage economic and social development, with intense public and public-private collaboration. This axis consists of four priority areas: renewable energy generation, sustainable mobility, cybersecurity from the supply side of technology and people's health and care. The second axis is the generation of strategic areas. It is a matter of boosting with greater intensity, due to the arrival of additional resources, sectors or areas of action in which Euskadi was already working. In this case, this axis also consists of four components: quality of human habitat, digitisation and innovation of enterprises and administrations, prevention of natural disasters and lifelong learning. As I said, the approach we have chosen in Euskadi is our own, aligned with our challenges and with the deployment of our public policies, our government programme and our strategy of intelligent specialization recognised by the European Union itself. It collects an approach of inter-agency collaboration and public-private collaboration, following a planned and structured analysis. Once the strategic planning and conceptual framework have been defined, it is up to us to align them with the criteria established by the European Union in terms of deadlines, milestones, monitoring indicators, etc. Euskadi Next must be very realistic in fulfilling milestones, as the funds are conditional on their annual execution. It is a challenge that we face from the Government with great responsibility and a collaborative spirit. As you know, and you have said, next December 9th we will be able to share the approach in more detail with all the groups in the House, in the appearance I have requested. The aim is to be able to approve this programme at the Governing Council on 29 December and to send it to the Government of Spain for inclusion in the initial proposal to be sent to Europe in January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u4	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the parliamentary members of the Maddalen Council at the EH Collector, about the strategic direction of the EAE for the funds of Europe, and the formation of preliminary projects." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. Actually, I have to ask you what this is, because I don't understand it. Euskadi will have a program of its own. We don't know anything. They say the chief physician will come on the 9th of the month to explain. I wanted to ask you today whether the government was engaged to make an effective frame to discuss with political, institutional, and social agents. Now, by the way, we've learned some things, and we've learned a lot of other things through communications in the past few days. And I have to tell you again that this is a disappointment to me. Besides, the government doesn't keep its word completely. October 2, the interpenetration, whitened by Michael Oterra, but the chairman of the Ogras answered: "As for the funds or money that are to come from Europe, we are prepared to give a complete appeal to so many Eucharists' projects, and, of course, to bring all the information we have here at every moment, to the legislature." I don't know what every moment is. Besides this he says: "You'll have a light of light, Mr. Otero. You'll have a light frame and possibilities to determine things." My question is, what's that light frame and, above all, I'm sure it's meant to be, in that sense, to make an effective frame. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. I'm sure it's been a long time since you put that frame in the neighborhood or the neighborhood you're asking for right now. After all, that's the model for our job. He asked her your question, you mentioned the committee of November 17th, and, as has been explained in the previous question, I will explain it to you. But, besides that, I don't want to forget that that today the head of the Treasury and Ogas department asked for a chance to share all the information in this part of the law. The Chief Department will introduce this presentation here and you will have a chance to make your proposals again. On the other hand, I would not forget the meetings they are making, and those mentioned by the chief physician: with the three forums, the townships of the capitals, the Eude, the Chambers of Commerce, and the Board of Economy, or Society, as well as the rest. We have collected hundreds of projects, and, with chosen investment plans, deadlines, finance sources, and so on, we have to make each of them a record. So the wide conversation between the operators you ask, the strategic direction, the discussion and specifying of prime projects, is on and is open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u9	You see, Mr. Urkullu, the European Union, when it was reported of these funds, said that it was necessary to make an extensive discussion with political, political, social, and institutional powers. Yeah, you read it carefully, political operator. When we were in May, we got up on the plan, picked up some tips on this, and handed them to you. 123 proposals, which have been recorded 15 days ago, I handed them to you. The Basque Country, considering the wants of this country to be strategic, has made a deep proposition, and has laid down some definite measures and programmes. And we do not know where they ought to be put, but you will continue with others, but not with the rest of the political parties of this Parliament. And I think it's a serious strategic mistake to let some of us drop, considering the importance of these funds for us at this moment, but especially in the future generations. This government has four years to live, for the time being. And there is not a deep plan of this kind, which will affect all succeeding generations, without any inquiry into the other powers of this Parliament. I hear the chief physician is coming on the 9th of the month. And you're supposed to run the list on 29th? What time do we have, then, to make such a deep discussion? And other projects we've worked together with the councils, which the councils can contribute, can be put on the table and actually made a proposition? I think, in the end, that the most transparent place and the most clear place will be the monographic meeting that the Basque Country asks for, because we'll have the opportunity to examine things clearly and clearly. Otherwise, in the meeting that some people make, between the departments, we're not, and we're only informed by means of media. One of these days you told Sánchezi que no acaba de acostumbrose a state form de proceder del president. I'm telling you the same thing: I won't get used to it either, but I won't get used to it. I'm telling you honestly: I shall not accustom myself to this practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Griarte. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u11	Look, Mrs. Irriere, I understand that either political or political forces wish to penetrate into what the President of the European Union or the European Committee said, but it is not so. And you don't even mention yours to her. Look, three weeks ago, November 6th, I had a meeting with you. There you gave me a document of your 123 measures and proposals. You made four demands on the European funds: the model and transparency of government, to act as a country, to be modified by projects, and to reach all the administrative levels of finance. We're keeping your request word for word. Mrs Iriarte, on 31 July, the President of the Spanish Government asked the Autonomous Communities to draw up the first project report for European funds and urged them to be sent as soon as possible. We sent a preliminary report in August, then a Government in office. From that moment on, as a constituted Government, we started a series of working meetings and began to receive proposals from public institutions in which you are also represented, both from municipalities and from the executives of the outlaws, who answer to the outlaw parliaments, to the general councils. We therefore receive proposals from public institutions and also from public-private partnerships. We've been getting proposals since September. These projects have to fit into the levers defined by the European Union, which the President of the Commission presented on 26 October. We need to rigorously analyse the eight priority areas defined, which the Finance Minister has also explained, and that they are transformative country bets, as well as that they represent opportunities for acceleration in strategic areas. In addition, proposals must be feasible and feasible within a very specific time frame, and must be projects of value from a country perspective. We are keeping this process of open contrast to analyze the proposals we are receiving from institutions, business confederations, trade unions, chambers of commerce, financial institutions, cooperatives, labour companies, fisheries, agricultural and consumer organisations, universities or associations in the third sector. That is the model of collaborative governance. You can do your exact contributions, too. Here on the committee of the legislature there will be a chance of talking about it. We have until December 29th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask questions, smooth seams of Susana Corcuera, members of the Basque Socialists made for Tourism, commerce, and the chairman of the Comssamores, about the last facts of "Euskdi Skip-Bone." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u13	Good morning, Lehendakari, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Just a month ago, in this House, this councillor explained the strategic lines of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs and proposed a two-phase strategy: the first phase, the one of resistance, with a series of programmes, measures and actions for the maintenance of economic activity and the maintenance of jobs, and a second phase, after overcoming the health crisis, already of economic revival, also with programmes and measures. In the Resistance Plan, one of the pillars or one of the important issues was the so-called consumption bonds. And I'm going to refer to the trade bonus, the Euskadi Bonus Denda. Go ahead with the recognition of the Basque Socialists to the trade sector for their collaboration in the fight against the expansion of the COVID-19, adopting and adapting their premises to the health protocols and also adapting those same premises to the measures of aforo and hygienic regulations, ultimately making the shops safe places in front of the COVID-19. And I mean Bono-Commercio. Last October 5th the order regulating the Bono-Commercio was published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country, mainly with the aim of stimulating and stimulating consumption in the fields of local trade and local trade. The importance of this trade bond, in our view, lies in two values: First, because it responds to the diagnosis that has been made of the Basque trade sector. We find ourselves during this health crisis with one sector, the commercial sector, with 21% of the workers affected by an ERTE. Sales fell in the second quarter of the same year by 22 %. And the commercial sector has a weight in the Basque economy of almost 11% of gross domestic product and, in addition, accounts for 15.6% of the total employment of Euskadi. Therefore, this Bono-Commercio is important in view of this diagnosis of the sector. It also has another value, in our view very important, and it is based on the agreement. Because it is part of an agreement with the commercial sector itself and part of an interinstitutional agreement for its implementation and development. As we find ourselves on the equator of that implementation of the trade bond, the Basque Socialists wanted to ask you, counselor, what data you have, what balance you make of that implementation of the trade bond. Above all, because there is one month left for the completion of this campaign of the Euskadi Bono Denda and they are important dates for the consumption of Basque citizenship, and also important for commercial activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. To answer, Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u15	Eskerrik asko, president. Egun on. Good morning. Indeed, the campaign to stimulate consumption, Euskadi Bono Denda, is part of a pioneering agreement between the Basque institutions: the Basque Government, the three parliaments, the three municipalities of the capitals and Eudel. And it is part of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumers' Resistance Plan, with 70 million. This plan seeks to revitalize one of the sectors most affected by the crisis, as well as contribute to the consumption of families. Well, with the data updated yesterday, of the 500,000 bonds issued, worth 5 million, there are already just over 300,000 bonds exchanged, which is almost 3 million euros. We are talking about the fact that an impact of more than EUR 9 million has already been generated, and we hope to reach more than EUR 15 million this end of the year. Bonds have already been exhausted in some establishments. For this reason, the number of exchanges in others is being monitored, so that they can be redistributed. Let me also reflect on responsible consumption on a day like today, Black Friday, where shopping is multiplying and where large online platforms carry out an important business. It is clear that local trade must adapt to a scenario that is changing, from the pandemic, with new areas of consumption and payment and more connected consumers. We understand that digitisation was necessary before and is now essential. And from the department, we are supporting and helping trade in that digital transformation. But, apart from the degree of digitisation, the problem is that small trade does not face large platforms on an equal footing, especially with regard to taxation. The role of trade and major platforms in our society concerns us all. Administrations, of course, because we must establish a regulatory framework that transcends the government of a country, or even transcends the European sphere, because it is a global one. And it is not a matter of contrasting a business with another trade, a type of trade with another type of trade. Large digital platforms are part of the present and will be part of the future. And they are welcome, but as long as they meet three requirements: that they have fair taxation, that they respect the rights of workers, especially trade unions, and that they contribute to promoting the small local trade in our territory. In this regard, I believe that the recent agreement approved in Cortes Generales, promoted by the Government of Spain, on the Google rate, which has been supported by most of the groups in this House, except for the trio of Columbus, is positive. And I believe that the announcement by the Macron Government to reactivate it this week, or the negotiations between more than 130 countries in the OECD, is also positive. And we understand that that's the way. But we all also have a responsibility; we as consumers. We cannot complain that the trade in our neighborhood closes, while we click on these digital platforms. We need to be aware that the decisions we make today will determine the society we want to build. In days like today, we are more concerned than ever that consumption must be responsible and that consumers must know their rights. If we don't plan our purchases, if we get carried away by the noise, by the big deals, if we ignore our rights, it doesn't only affect us individually, in a way of frustration or greater spending or deception. What we generate are returns and excessive movement of parcelry and transport. And that's not sustainable. We do not improve our quality of life or our environment by buying blind people. It should be borne in mind that decisions that appear to be individual have collective consequences. That is why we recommend prudence, planning and prior information. In short, it is committed to local trade, responsible and informed consumption by consumers and a positive assessment of consumer support measures. There are still more than 150,000 trade bonds, which can be used in the Euskadi establishments to support that local trade and contribute to the development of our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u16	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Forth point on the theme list: "I'm asking you, Mi's hating company, members of the Podemos-IU team made to the president about the Institious expression on the USAal change of the Eusual Dreams." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Urkullu, the government you run last year made a declaration of the climate. And with that he declared, or confessed, that it was the object of Euskade, that our economy was neutral in carbona before the year 2050. But in an opposite sense, I would say that on the 11th of November, we found out that there is a technical support from 300,000 euros to hire technical help and guidance, so that the Sociedad de Hydrocarros de Eudei-Shechidi-Sheracts may be able to take care of the hydrocarbular. I mean, within an economic and climate emergency, public money is spent in a gas that has the effect of research and exploration. That is, we say fossil fuels cause great damage to the climate, health, and life, and yet it is determined to invest public money in fossil fuels within a climate crisis. Hori de la éta, gure galdera hauxe da: Nola ari da Gobernua involmentatzen larrialdi klimatikoaren deklarazian jasotakoa garapen sozioekonomikoan? How is the Government implementing what is included in the above-mentioned climate emergency declaration in terms of economic development? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Ma'am, on July 30th of the past year, she agreed to an institutional statement on climate emergency, the first organization in the state. Anyway, that's not where the road started. This declaration followed, in advance, in the climatical strategy of 2050, or in the international alliance of the Climate Group. On international level, as a country, even as a region, we have hitherto shown our pioneer. On behalf of that team, in 2014, we participated in the upper part of New York and then in the Paris COP-21. We signed to reduce the gas leaks of the hothouse effect and to achieve climate neutrality. We got these targets in our program and we're doing it. On the third of November we accepted the bill of environmental administration, and on Tuesday the bill of preserving the natural claims. In the legislation program we are engaged to accept the legal projects concerning the transformation of the climate and the tolerable protection and motion of animals. In the first case, a group of jobs has been created and the calendar has been accepted, recovering our goals which were established in front of the bill. These are some of the initiatives and activities which will help to carry out the expression in this legislation. In our program, in total, we have 10 specific commitments and 50 specific means to promote social development and work. In it, to refresh the economy, to promote the transition of energy and environment, the effective use of energy and resources, integrates with new retrial impulse and technology. The privilege of fighting, transporting, and intelligent, against change of climate, the electrocution of energy, and the protection of environment, will be the means of activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u21	Yes, but, nevertheless, public money is still being invested in gas, despite the fact that no one believes that gas is a transitional energy or cheaper, and, of course, the International Energy Agency does not believe it, which, already in the 2020 report, is betting on renewable energy, and is also telling us that solar energy now has record prices of 3 cents of euro per kilowatt hour, while gas prices are around 5 or 6 cents; that is, it is not cheaper. Neither Europe's Next Generation funds are betting on gas, when they are precisely aiming for an energy transition based on renewable energy. And, if we look also at the preliminary draft law on climate change and energy transition that is currently under way in the Congress of Deputies, Article 8 assumes the need to put an end to gas and oil and expressly prohibits the exploration, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons on national territory. If this Article 8 is approved, I hope so, what will happen? Or are we going to have to run to Madrid to say that, please, this article is not approved, as has been done with the diesel tax? What you can't do is use climate change and the discourse of climate change as marketing and as greenwashing, when then you are really doing other completely different things. When European funds are being devoted or want to be devoted to Petronor, for example, or when public money is being used for extraction and exploration and research on gas or when the diesel tax is being eliminated. That is why I believe it is necessary and important – and I ask you to do so – to react in time and to stop investing in hydrocarbons that destroy the planet and also put the health of all of us at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gorrotxategi, I fully share your wishes, I share them. Now, are they feasible overnight? Look, let's guide the transition to the green economy as an opportunity for socio-economic and employment development. The Berpiztu programme includes among its principles the construction of a greener Euskadi. Similarly, the new science, technology and innovation plans, the Euskadi Prevention and Waste Plan, the Basque Green Deal Environmental Framework Programme, in which we are working, envisage the energy transition as a lever for socio-economic development. On November 6, we met and contrasted our government program with its electoral program. The coincidence is obvious, the energy transition and the fight against climate change is a country goal worth working for together. Meeting these energy-climate objectives is at the service of sustainable socio-economic development. I repeat, from night to morning? Look, you also mentioned the diesel tax, and I will tell you that the new diesel tax could cause direct damage to the automotive sector, which is basic to the Basque industry. We will move forward with the gradual transformation of industry and the renewal of the oldest and most polluting vehicles. However, applying a new diesel tax right now and immediately puts thousands of jobs at risk. Our sustainable development model harmonizes the energy and environmental objectives, which we share, with the maintenance of industrial production and employment. They're compatible and they're possible and that's how we're proving it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, as to the popular group of Angulo Euskals by Charles Iturga, the parliamentary members of Ciudadnos for the president, to accept the form of education which is called "Celá Law." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u25	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Chief of Parliament. Lehendakari jauna, a few days ago his group made it possible, with his vote, to pass the Celaá Law Congress. A law passed by a single member of the margin, which says a lot about the lack of will for agreement and consensus. A law that corneres the concerted centers and laminates the ones of special education, not to mention the contempt of the talent and the marginalization of the Castilian as a vehicle language. A cluster of misconceptions that the PNV has made its own. In the concerted centres, you know, you study half the Basque student, nothing more and nothing less than half, so your government hastened to say that this law will have a zero impact on Basque; come on, they will look for ways to breach it. It sounds like a joke of bad taste that the Basque Government presumes to avoid the harm to students and families of a law that the PNV has supported in the Congress of Deputies. And that's the problem, Mr. President, that this law risks the education of euscal and half of families has been accepted by EAJ's votes. You could have defended freedom and pluralism, but unfortunately you voted for that law and that was a mistake for education. Therefore, lehendakari jauna, I ask you: how is the basic legislation not being complied with? What will happen if they change their minds within three months or if their socialist partners demand strict application of the law? What will your reassuring words of these days then be worth? What will happen in September with differentiated education centres and their thousands of students in Euskadi? We all know why they say they won't apply the law from the Basque government: because they don't like it. Then the best thing is that there was no law. You have the opportunity to vote against in the Senate and again in the final vote in Congress. And we, from the Basque People-Citizens Group, will also give them an opportunity to ask from this House, with the non-law proposal that we have registered. The question is how do you assess the impact of the Celaá law on Euskadi, lehendakari jauna?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u27	Mr. Supplies, my team is the Eubertarians, the parlamentary team. I don't vote at Congress or in the Senate. But in the first place, this new law is better than before. As well as the other law, which is the eighth law, does not desire to obtain any other continental sanctions, but, like the former laws, has been secured and approved by the majority of Congress. The new law is better and allows us to develop our education model less. For instance, he will not limit our policy of scholarship, as the former law did. The new law will not condition the mixed model of the public education and compact which we have built in nearly four decades, as the former law did. You said that the new law allows you to reject youth as a language of communication. It's the opposite, Mr. Iturbiz. The Lulcan Party's LUMMCE established that the Spanish must be a language of communication. It was an engagement, and he wasn't protected by Euskatadin. Anyway, RedMork has accepted the challenge to make a new education agreement. And we know very well that admitting a new law requires an extensive prior consent. That's what we're going to do, the agreement that will consider the teaching of COVID-19, which will answer to the roots of equity and quality of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u28	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u29	Mr. President, you and I both know this law is no better than the other. This law is an attack. It is an attack on freedom of choice, it is an attack on concerted education, it is an attack on the Spanish language, but it is also aberrant against special education. I believe, moreover, that you have made a bet: to pass this law in Madrid and, instead, not to comply with it here. They do not want to fulfill it, because they say clearly that concerted education is going to defend itself and that you are in another line. You approve for Valencia or Lugo or Guadalajara what you hope to fail here in the Basque Country. They say yes in Madrid with the Sánchez-Iglesias government and Bildu, and they put good guys here, in front of the same as Bildu, Socialists and Podemos, regarding this law. I want to tell you that in the background you, Mr Lehendakari, do not like the Celaá law, as you do not like Sánchez's vaccination plan – you said it yourself –, as you did not like Sánchez's anti-vid plan in the first wave, and your vice-president Lehendakari struck you, Mrs Mendia, when he called you disloyal, Mr Lehendakari – yes, yes, ask Mrs Gorrotxategi and Mrs Iriarte – at that meeting in Lehendakariitza. You guys do like Golden Pine, in the Price circus, triple mortal jump, Mr. lehendakari. There they vote some things, here they come to say something else about the Education Law, the Celaá Law and, of course, Mrs Pinito had no network. You have a network and you have the network of Sanchez and Churches, which are your partners. And that is the problem of you, of the Basque Nationalist Party on this earth, Mr Lehendakari. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u30	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iturgaiz, I don't know if we're doing triple mortal jump, and I don't know if you've done triple mortal jump here with truncheons, loops and I don't know how many things without net. In any case, this law is better than the previous one, because it does not establish new obstacles and allows us to regain the autonomy that belongs to us in matters such as scholarships, languages, curriculum or model. You don't believe problems where there are none, Mr. Iturgaiz. This is what the LOMCE, the LOMCE that you approved, did. The previous law sought to bring the scholarship policy downwards. He intended to impose Spanish as a vehicle language when no previous law had done so. He tried to limit the contents of his own curriculum. He wanted to impose the invalids and their contents in order to obtain a title. He intended to condition the Basque educational model. And all this without the Basque Government, which has competence in education. Look, we will continue to work to improve equity, improve quality and improve the excellence of Basque education, with facts. This Tuesday we approved almost 40 million euros for the concerted centres in Euskadi, which are in addition to what is invested in public centres. We have 140 million to ensure safe face-to-face education in this COVID course. We invest in agreement with the educational community, because education needs, more than ever, consensus, agreement and work in common. We don't cause problems where there are no problems. Look, I think the network agreed in Euskadi is aware of the differentiation with respect to the rest of the state. And it also distinguishes the concerted network in Euskadi from the incidence of the law in Euskadi or the rest of the state. The law may not meet 100%, but we're better than we were. We are focused on reaching a broad consensus in favour of education in Euskadi. Our commitment is to continue to improve on a day-to-day basis within the framework of our own educational competence. So, in this way of educational improvement, I would like to take advantage of this today, as far as I can, of our work of thanking Merene Balluerka for our gratitude, and of Eva Ferrei, congratulations, and luck in the new college stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, the Grey-haired Amaia Martín, the member of the Mist Group, first member of the vice president and Security department, about the safety of San Francisco City." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u33	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, councillors, vice-lehendakari. Today the question goes to you, Mr Erkoreka. Our question is: what actions do you plan to take from the Department of Security to ensure coexistence in the Bilbao neighborhood of San Francisco, in the face of the insecurity that your neighbors live daily and that they have moved us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u34	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, your question, as you well know, is not the first initiative presented in this House and in this legislature in relation to the Bilbao neighbourhood of San Francisco. And it will certainly not be the last, either, because we are talking about a populous, plural, diverse and socially very complex neighbourhood, in which illegal conduct and behaviour are not uncommon, both from the administrative and from the criminal point of view. I have just given a written reply to a request for documented information that you yourself have made, in which I bring information about the security situation in this neighborhood, which I believe is very illustrative of what I have just outlined. The Ertzaintza has a permanent presence in this neighborhood, in close coordination with the local police, as it cannot be otherwise, each of them in the area of its competences, although there are also some interventions of the National Police in the neighborhood, mainly related to the foreign affairs that occur in the same one. The Ertzaintza, of course, will continue with the same presence in the neighborhood, centered, as it has been so far, on prevention, and, when this is not enough, on the persecution of the illicits that can occur, but always in accordance with the principle of proportionality and from the utmost respect for the dignity and the rights and freedoms of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u36	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u37	Mr Erkoreka, indeed, is not the first initiative and will certainly follow more, because as long as the neighbours continue in this situation they will continue to insist on a solution. The situation in the San Francisco neighborhood you know is unsustainable. You know that and your colleagues in the Congress of Deputies know that too. I remember perfectly the words of Aitor Esteban saying that, during our election campaign, we had problems because we were going to conflicty neighborhoods, in clear reference to our election act in the San Francisco neighborhood. It's a neighborhood whose neighbors are calling for more and more security. They need involvement from the Administration. Even the Basque tourism websites do not recommend going to such neighborhoods. We're at a point where criminals camp out wide. Neighbors assure us that the security pact has served absolutely nothing, and that the situation worsens every day: drugs, prostitution, theft, harassment... Neighborhood association Sanfran Auzokideak has publicly stated that the neighbors are overwhelmed, that the law is not enforced, nor the anti-COVID decrees, that live in fear to leave the house and cross with certain groups. Many, with younger children, have moved us that they plan to move to another place, because this creates insecurity for them, and they also confirm that "if something happens here, no one saves us." Is there a right to live like this? Do you understand that if you don't solve this, you'll turn this place into a ghetto? When we see the press, the neighborhood always appears in the same way: knifes, fights, fights, shootings. San Francisco and conflict go hand in hand, but we don't do too much. The last notable event was an attack on the Ertzaintza with sprais last week, and is that our police are unarmed, completely unable to deal with groups that are taking confidence every day and fighting more violently against our state security forces and bodies. For more inri, the manifestos of SOS Racism, an organization that receives public funds, which is dedicated to saying that in this neighborhood the police abuse power and exert violence without criterion; I think it is something unjustified. From Vox we believe that this must cease, that we cannot continue to support organizations that attack the work of the Ertzaintza, which defends us from those who cause terror in San Francisco. If, as Aitor Esteban said, it is a complicated neighborhood, we believe that measures must be taken urgently; our citizens cannot live with fear, insecurity and terror. Mr Erkoreka, we hope that in your road map you are resolving these altercations that are taking place every day in this neighborhood, which many already call the Bilbao Bronx. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u38	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, in fact, has referred to the fact that your initiative is not the first, but, as you are sure to know, not all have occurred in the same way as you put it. Here, indeed, the composition of Parliament makes it possible for the perspectives that are defended from the different parliamentary groups to be not only different, but also antagonistic and even found in relation to the solutions to be adopted in relation to the situations that are generated in the neighbourhood. I have made reference to the plurality, the social complexity of the neighbourhood, and I have made reference to and reaffirmed the commitment to the presence of the Ertzaintza there, in the terms in which it has been taking place so far, in close cooperation, as it cannot otherwise be, with the Local Police. In any case, in relation to your question, let me give you a couple of details. You ask me – the written formulation is like this and you have reproduced these words in your oral presentation – what the Department of Security is going to do to ensure coexistence in the San Francisco neighborhood. I believe that it is not well thought out, because the Department of Security alone cannot guarantee such an objective. The commitment to ensure coexistence has to be a pluri-institutional commitment, which, of course, affects all administrative levels and which affects in a particular way the areas related to social services: foreigners, income guarantee, inclusion, dependency, etc. Secondly, public security, defence, the protection of persons and property and citizens' order cannot but limit the freedom of expression and action of certain legitimately constituted organizations and associations; they act and defend their views with absolute legitimacy, and we have seen that even in this Parliament there are positions that are somewhat similar to the positions you mentioned in your speech today. Therefore, to the extent that their action is lawful and is in line with the schemes laid down by the legal treatment, they are, of course, creditors of the utmost respect. The Ertzaintza, I insist, will continue with its stay in the neighborhood, with its permanent presence in the neighborhood, and will continue to act, as I said, above all through prevention, and, when it is not possible, always respecting the principle of proportionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u40	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. I want to remind you from now on that questions will be asked from the bench and answered, standing up. Seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, given to the president by the Congressman of the Cianova Alonso EH Collectations." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u41	Good morning, yes. Thank you. Today's Black Friday. I associate with the expressions which the chief physician has made, as to the necessity of balance between the several forms of commerce, and I appeal to the institutions to help them, because they do not now exist. Today's Black Friday for all of us, even for the guests. But unfortunately it was also yesterday for the guests, Black Thursday, and the day before yesterday Black Wednesday, and tomorrow it will be Black Saturday, for Heavy, Black Sunday. I won't encourage consumerism, but I'll take advantage of this special date to make a special offer instead of asking a simple question, I'll make a pack, an offer: four at the price of one. I'm not just asking. I'll give Mr. President a chance, give him a present and ask him a question and a request. Number one, opportunity. I'll give Mr. President a chance to address his words. Two weeks ago he made painful expressions about the landlady, questioning her goodness. Another person on your side, the president, said you didn't mean what we all understood, now you have a chance to correct that. A gift. I mentioned yesterday what it means to an autonomous automen who lost 40% of the income, and I showed the data yesterday. It's a particular case, but it's significant: two thousand euros a month, the loss of $7,000 a month. I'll give you these accounts, real, real billing, so you can see what the real state of the sector is in a minute. Question. The same question I asked you 15 years ago: Is the government going to activate enough measurements to deal with the critical situation that the host is passing? A lot of sizes. And I'm asking that question to say yes. But not just like you did two weeks ago, an abstract yes without helping your friends, but I urge you to say yes by announcing the new help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u42	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Casanova, what I answered was two weeks ago. And I'm going to tell you that I had the German model proposed myself before this question took place here at the LABI committee. I put it up myself. And there I received the negative. The negative, among other things, even if it was already spoken to the sector. So I held out the question myself, and I myself assigned the German model on LABI's committee. On the other hand, Mr. Casanova, we're in an emergency during the medical emergency. And, consequently, in general and in all kinds of cases, we need help. In every field. You're asking for a specific ransom plan. And I'll tell you that this rescue plan is in progress. We set off on March 24th, and from that time forward we have strengthened ourselves. In the case of health, in order to face this state of emergency, we have a general plan of rescue, which answers also to host. Not only that, we've been conducting special helps and rights on board. We're making a tremendous effort to help this sector. The results are obvious: For this week we have 7,230 helpers, and we'll answer to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u44	Thank you, Mr. Urkullu. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u45	Well, Mr. Urkullu, in the previous question, I told you if autonomists and workers would believe who would believe, you or his accounts. Even today, I'll let them answer you. This is the answer. And this is their answer. It's not true that the measurements have been agreed to the sector. That's not true. The sector has been discussed, but the measures have not been agreed. These are not the measures the sector requests. One more example. You mentioned the aids to ERTE in your answer two weeks ago: Twenty thousand people affected for the sake of ERTE, $40,000 in the hostor, concerned at 85% of the employees on the sector's account. In June you announced your help to complete the ERTUES: "They'll come to 5,000 people." Do you know how many people have been charged on November 25, how many people have charged that help? Zero people. Zero, to complete the ERTUES. These aren't autonomies. These are the workers of other people, most of them women, many of whom are strangers who are in need, and who have not yet seen the help. We didn't come here today to discuss health measures. No, that's different. We are here today to discuss the social effects which produce these medical measures. And I must tell you again: the situation is critical. You still don't realize the situation and the crisis that's suffering from the sector. And we're still on time to take measures, to save a part of the sector, because it's already gone. Move because merchants and hosts need you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u46	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, I believe that here also has been explained about the ERTE. And it's not just music and music. You are now talking about the crisis of hospitality, but you are hiding – and I repeat what I also told you 15 days ago – that at Easter you pressed to shut down all the hospitality, commerce, education, culture, business, industry. They proposed the total closure of the country, starting with the hospitality. They came to accuse us of prioritizing the economy in the face of people's lives. When asked how to sustain this situation, they offered a simple solution: stop the high-speed train and raise taxes. You have just supported the State General Budgets without stopping the high-speed train and without raising taxes. Of course, they approve them without a single measure of support for the hospitality sector that we do not have in place here. Not anymore...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u48	Mr. Casanova, Mr. Casanova.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u49	Not all the measures since 24 March, which I also explained in the previous full control, and we have been insisting, because they are also in force for the hospitality sector, but for the sector itself. We are not alien to the consequences and incidence that preventive closure is having in the hospitality sector, in its more than 13,000 establishments and more than 55,000 workers. Of course not. That is why we have activated the COVID-19 aid programme for the sector, as a matter of urgency and agile procedure, applying the principles of efficiency and efficiency in the management of public expenditure and in order to contribute to the maintenance of the activity and to alleviate direct economic losses, contributing to the physical survival of the establishments, once the compulsory closure is overcome. You know that three sections have been established for the quantification of aid, following the business structure: up to three working people, up to 10 working people, and from more than 10 to 50 working people are available. Yesterday, in this Basque Parliament, we adopted the resolution with the votes in favour sufficient to be adopted. That's how we're gonna do it. In any case, I insist: the best help begins with our individual commitment. Complying with the recommendations of the health authorities makes it possible to contain the serious Community transmission that we have experienced in the past month and to help the hotel industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interpelation, made by the lawmate of Carmélo Barroja, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, the second vice-presidents, and chief clerks, who are associated with marching forwards in the strategic plantation of social astronomy." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u51	Good morning, Madam President, Lehendakari, Councillors, Councillors, Mrs Mendia, ladies and gentlemen. This is an interpellation to continue to drive, to continue to foster the social economy, an important pillar of our economy right now in times of crisis, where it can have a special role and a special strength in relation to many issues, with the generation of employment... The truth is that Mr Casanova has been a teacher in pulling posters, we will have to do the master's degree some parliamentarians. I want to say that we are at an important time of crisis, a crisis by the pandemic, where economic formulas such as the social economy must be strengthened. Furthermore, there is the basis in this Parliament and in this society for that to be done, and I will briefly remind you of that. Just under a year ago, the Basque Cooperatives Act was passed here in this Parliament in December. It is an important law, which has an important backing. At the moment, this law is in the process of implementation, of new application, and certainly of regulatory development which we are also interested in. In the process of application in many respects, because it is a long law, a complex law, that affects many aspects. Also in 2018, on 22 May, we were discussing in this Parliament a communication from the Government on the social economy with a series of very important resolutions, which said many things; about 60 interesting resolutions on the development of policies to promote the social economy in all its forms. And on October 17, 2019 we unanimously approved a compromise amendment to a motion resulting from an inquiry into the drafting of a strategic plan for the social economy. Well, that's where we have to focus, and that's where we're going to ask the government to explain how this situation is going. We have experienced important moments in the Basque Country. Bilbao was the scene of a global social economy forum in October 2018, which we were able to attend and where we were able to verify the international importance of this form of economy. International, therefore, is not a generic word, it is the importance that gives it such important areas as the European Union, in whose economic strategy 2020 the enterprises of the social economy are an important aspect, or the United Nations, where the social economy acquires a special protagonist. In the Basque Country we have been a reference of the social economy and, fundamentally, of co-operativeism. But other forms and forms of social economy have also been important: labour societies, special employment centres and integration companies, associations with economic activity, mutual societies and mutual societies, fishermen's confreres, agricultural processing societies, and even, in some of the issues we have discussed since 2008 in this Parliament, savings banks have been able to be part of that consideration. I also referred to one important element: this very year, just a few days ago, the United Nations has placed itself in the social economy as one of the priorities in global reconstruction policies in order to achieve the sustainable development goals of the 2030 Agenda. So in times of crisis, in times of COVID-19, job losses and economic downturn, the Government, to which Mrs Mendia belongs, must use and develop these formulas, in addition to the necessity, also in compliance with parliamentary mandates. The United Nations meeting was described as a high-level event on financing for the development of the COVID-19 era. Within that framework, it was agreed to strengthen people-centred enterprises, which underpin the social economy; that was a fundamental element. It was agreed to strengthen them within measures to ensure a transition to a more sustainable and inclusive system, to a resilient world, with human rights and gender equality at the centre. They are important elements, which also coexist in a perfect way with other forms of business, with business formulas and with other business formulations. I repeat the weight and perspective given to it by areas or institutions as important as the European Union or the United Nations, in the context of the overall assessment of the crisis, but also towards the 2030 objectives. Let us remember that in objective eight the social economy also has a leading factor. The plenary session of the Basque Parliament, held on 17 October 2019, unanimously adopted a motion, which said three things: First, the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, on the basis of the adoption of this initiative, to begin work aimed at drawing up a strategic plan for the social economy, of an interdepartmental nature, implementing the economic resources necessary for its development, all for the promotion of the social economy in the Basque Country. An important element, that strategic plan in relation to the social economy. He also said that Parliament urged the Basque Government to develop this strategy with the direct and active participation of all actors in the social economy, so as to respond to the demands and needs of that sector of the social economy. We all know much of the sector, its strength, its partnership capacity, its momentum, its preparation, even theoretical or doctrinal, apart from practice. The University of Mondragon and the other two universities, the University of Deusto and the Basque public university, have references and have fields of study of the social economy and the cooperative phenomenon, which is comparable to excellence within this field. They also form part of the Higher Council of Cooperatives. That is, a part of the social economy, the school of social economy, is broader. That is why, at that second point, we have talked about the agents, who are many and who are well prepared. The third was a reference to the report on the degree of compliance with the measures adopted to that end, the resolutions adopted on 4 June 2018 in the context of the parliamentary debate. We remember that parliamentary debate and we will encourage further parliamentary debates on the social economy from this group. In any event, in view of these issues, and in view of the fact that I am no longer extending myself, I would like to know, within the framework of the Government's capacity for action and of those commitments made, what are the purposes and actions carried out by the Government or which the Government intends to carry out in connection with the process of drawing up the Strategic Plan for the Social Economy, which, I say again, is important for employment generation and economic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u52	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u53	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. It's a plan to keep committing. It's in the government program you know. First axis, job. And as soon as he starts talking about jobs, he talks about socialonomy in the third paragraph as the essential element of the Eukadi strategy. But there's something even more important. We shall not only obey the command of the legislature; We're going to develop the law we took last year. We'll do the same from the hands of the sector, from the co-operatives and the labourers. So, the first week of government, I met them with four big unions, Confebask, Confecoop, ASLE and autonomists. In fact, all of them are indispensable agents in the development of this crisis. And by his hand, when we agree with them, we will return to this legislature to present to you the plan of the Social Economy Plan. So it is very clear the Government's commitment, also to you, to the parliamentary groups, to whom we have in the past to make the Cooperatives Act and to whom we have in the future to be able to develop it. This is one of the issues that we will have on the agenda, which we will be discussing with all of you, with the parliamentary groups, because I announced it two weeks ago in this House. Because that Cooperatives Act that we managed to pass is not just unequivocal support for the social economy, it's an attitude, a way of doing politics that I want to assume as my own. It's like I think we have to do things. That it was passed without votes against shows that the department knew how to see a need and knew how to lead a broad consensus to offer a solution that all groups knew how to see: that the social economy is one of the strengths that we have in Euskadi, that the cooperative movement of associated work is leading in Europe and that we want it to remain so. As I announced in the presentation of the strategic lines of my department more than a month ago, we continue to work with concrete measures to ensure that the crisis does not weaken them. Measures including the strategic plan that you mentioned, committed to this Parliament. But this unequivocal bet on the social economy is one of our priorities. It is the sixth of the 150 commitments we have made to citizens for this legislature through the government program. The role of the social economy is expressly strengthened, with four specific initiatives: developing the Basque Cooperatives Act; supporting the development of social economy enterprises, facilitating actions aimed at strengthening their dimension; incorporating new partners and promoting inter-cooperation and partnership among them; supporting the improvement of business management and planning, training and the promotion of good governance and corporate social responsibility in social economy enterprises. In addition, encourage both technological and non-technological innovation projects in social economy enterprises, in collaboration, of course, with associations and groupings in the sector. But this year 2020, as you can imagine, has not been empty of action. We have been complying with the provisions of the law and, as I indicated, completing the full study of the social economy. We have continued with the deployment of actions and regulatory rules for the promotion of the social economy that are designed and published annually, eight in total. And we have completed the implementation of the previous year's aid. In this, as in everything else, one of the biggest health and economic crises in recent history broke out for us, and also there the department, through the Directorate of Social Economy has been very attached to the needs of the sector. The first shock reaction was a specific line of aid to mini- and micro-enterprises affected by COVID-19. And, a second, the restructuring of existing support lines. The restructuring has even led to a significant increase in the budget for entrepreneurship and technical assistance. Incorporation or structure or training aid is maintained. Because it is those that support essential aims, such as the increase of the corporate base of social economy enterprises, the consolidation of their associative structures or specific training, and, of course, the maintenance of the Observatory of the Social Economy. Inter-cooperation, social responsibility, business and participation have decreased in size. The first for its low demand recorded these years and the other two for being activities to be developed in the longer term. The urgency was and is the pandemic, and the priority has been to address its consequences in the social economy. Therefore, there have been three specific lines of support for companies affected by COVID. Entrepreneurship in the Social Economy 2020, which is a financial aid for the consolidation of own resources, earmarked for own funds, to non-distributable reserves. This support has added 555,000 euros for micro and mini-enterprises cooperatives and labor companies created from the year 2015, therefore, of recent constitution, and which were not sufficiently consolidated. The second, the line of Technical Assistance in Social Economy is a help of activation or business continuity to regain competitiveness and market also for micro and mini-enterprises, cooperatives and labor societies. The total amount earmarked for this support has been €800,000, of which €550,000 is for the COVID-19 Plan. And the line of extraordinary aid to small enterprises with a social economy is a shock or containment aid for micro- and mini-enterprises, cooperatives and labour companies of up to ten workers. Here, with a million euros, we have focused on those particularly weak companies in their economic-financial structure, many of them, as I said, newly created. Thanks to this support, they have been able to meet their social security contribution obligations, mainly, but also rent income from the premises of their business. Therefore, in addition to working on this, as a matter of urgency, we have also continued to work on the important, as is the elaboration of this plan that you bring us here with this inquiry. The actions undertaken so far with regard to the preparation of the strategic plan are as follows: drafts of the various documents have been prepared, both of general and individual administrative clauses and of the technical specifications for the recruitment of a technical assistance service for the preparation, monitoring and evaluation of an interdepartmental strategic plan for the social economy. Because evaluation and monitoring are fundamental planning tools for the social economy legislature and because it is interdepartmental action, with different budgetary implications that will require better and more follow-up. These documents are being analysed by the legal services of the department and, once the corresponding budget appropriation for their financing has been validated and approved, the relevant public competition for their recruitment will be formalised. So, Mr Barrio, I have told you from the beginning: you must trust this government, for many things, but also for this clear commitment to the social economy that the Basque Government has. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u55	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Mendia, Mrs. Counsellor, Mrs. Vicelehendakari. I am indeed aware of the development of the Government's plans for the promotion and impetus and support of the social economy. I care about them. I am merely questioning and asking the Government, and I am also awaiting such programmes and decrees or orders of support or grants. Of course, we have at some point stimulated them in budgetary times with important economic injections. I think we need to keep working on those keys, because we need to define – I think now in an immediate way – the new strategy. And it must be done in a way that is correct and effective, because the social economy will be measured, above all, in job creation, but it will also be measured in qualitative factors: in quality employment, as it has been so far; in new business creation formulas, something very important, with new entrepreneurs and new business formulas, the stimulation of social economy formulas, all of them, cooperatives and all of the others. Agricultural processing companies, agricultural cooperatives are very important elements for the development of rural areas and need greater impetus, a greater strategy, no doubt, in times of crisis. There are many niches of associated work that you see now. There is also some initiative by some parliamentary group to talk about the social economy or cooperatives in relation to care. That's why we have to act. There are plans and important references in the world, even in Spain, of very powerful strategic plans, such as the one approved in the region of Murcia, with an economic quantification and with a series of very important economic vectors and business development. That is why these lines of action and economic support are very important reinforcements. In short, we do want to push forward this Government's action in relation to the social economy and the strategic plan. In the second speech, I would like to make something more specific, because that parliamentary mandate was approved in October 2019, just over a year ago. We have had the government transition and we have had the health crisis that has slowed down some public actions. But in any case, we are talking about an administrative first step, because what I am remembering is drafts and leaflets. I would like to know what the department's commitment is and when that strategic plan will be prepared, because that strategic plan we would like to deal with, we would like to talk about it in Parliament, in the Committee on Labour and Employment, as we have with other communications from the Government, in 2011 and 2018 with important communications from the Government, of reference for the social economy. That is why I would like to know those characteristics. I say it again: the social economy is not something that is studied in some collateral matter of some economic subject and then forgotten and then practiced by some entrepreneurs. It's something else, it's a business philosophy, it's an economic philosophy that needs to be developed, that needs to be stimulated and that needs to be encouraged from the public authorities, and that many people need to be informed that they have entrepreneurship. We have previously referred to the Europe 2020 strategy, to opinions of the European Economic and Social Council, reiterated, in relation to this economic formula, to resolutions of the European Parliament, to many strategies and to many keys of Europe and the world in relation to something as important as the social economy, so I would like you to define this government's action a little better.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u56	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Mountain, it's yours to answer the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u57	Mr Barrio, of course, the first step that every government has to take when it has to draw up a strategic plan is to hire technical assistance and, to do so, those first steps that you call administrative but which are essential to achieve the objective that I believe this whole House shares, which is to have a good strategic plan. Since it is a strategic plan for the social economy and wants it to be cross-cutting for the entire Government, of course, we also need to do much more intensive and collaborative work within the Government itself. And we have to establish a working method. It will have to be established by technical assistance, because, of course, all the strategic plans that we draw up in the Government in this legislature will have to be aligned on the basis of the first strategy approved by this Government within a few weeks of taking possession, which is the Berpiztu strategy. Aligned, of course, also with the strategic lines that the Spanish Government has marked and that are marked by the European Union in this project for human and sustainable development, which seeks, above all, to be consensual. We obviously need that strategic plan to be participatory, especially with the sector, because, if we want a strategic plan, it will be to further consolidate the social economy sector in Basque. And, if we want it to be a truly valuable and useful tool for the government and the sector to which it is directed, it has to be a living tool. Therefore, it has to be a dynamic instrument so that you can respond exactly to every moment, because we live moments of uncertainty and totally changing. We therefore want it to be the best possible plan, with an important degree of public-private collaboration. I share with you that we have the model of the social economy, a model that serves as an example in these difficult times, because it is a model of rooting out with the territory and committed to quality employment and decent wages, compared to the models of relocation that we sometimes suffer. This is an added value that we recognize to the social economy and that we want to continue to put into value. The Government is therefore committed to developing this plan. We're already on the move, it'll take your time to draw up the plan. Obviously, we will come to this House, as it cannot be otherwise, to share it with all of you, to account for that plan and receive your contributions. But I have an interest in talking to all the groups in this House, and I will do so in the coming weeks, to receive their contributions, not only on the subject of this inquiry, which is the social economy, but also on other areas that fall within my department's purview. So nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of Laura Garrido Knörr Euscal, the popular Group-Ciudadanos of the Second Vice President, the Chief of Staff and Empedugus, about the reform of the profession Office. " Mrs Garrido, your word is yours. Mrs Garrido, from there, please. [[Berber]] That was the arrangement of the table.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u59	Well, gracias, señora presidenata, thank you. Chief department, congressmen. Well, the reality of facts and data has revealed a very revealing reality in relation to Lanbide, the Basque Employment Service. They have noted the failure of Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service, in a dual area, Counsellor: in the management of social aid and in the employability of people who are unemployed. In such a complicated scenario it is necessary for Lanbide to function effectively and for all those measures to be put in place that make it possible for Lanbide to meet its mandated objectives, above all, as I said, in such a complicated scenario. What cannot happen is that, for example, when it comes to managing specific aid, as happened with aid to self-employed people, because Lanbide does not function properly. In this regard, a comprehensive reform of Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service is needed, also in order to meet the objectives of mediation, training and guidance, both for businesses and those who are unemployed. You, in your appearance to explain the strategic lines of the Department of Labour and Employment, recognized that Lanbide does not function properly and that it does not fulfill the purposes entrusted to you. He told us that they were fully aware of Lanbide's reduced brokering capacity in its deployment, which, in terms of Lanbide's operation, has various functions. We know that the management of the RGI absorbs much of a task thought of the law, mainly, for other things, that what we have to do is get Lanbide back to be the body that was born to mediate to find employment. That is why, Commissioner, we have asked you, from the People's-Citizens Coalition: What criteria will your department – and you, from the responsibility you bear – take to achieve this comprehensive reform of Lanbide, which is so necessary to remedy the shortcomings that this body currently presents.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u60	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u61	You know the criteria you have to follow, because on October 14 I explained it in this parliament, and that's what you said now. In fact, that's what I've been talking about, about the strategic furrows, and the criteria we have to follow. And that's where I told you that my department isn't just to manage my profession, that it's going to change, change the thing to change, make it effective in the preparation for jobs, the effective position for jobs, the effective in the pursuit of jobs, and, of course, effective in training and tramation. We're talking about a public service and we're gonna reinforce it. That's why we'll look at everything that doesn't work. I also told you that we should first listen to the workers of this public service, who know better than anyone how each office works, and I can tell you we did it. So we've started a way to turn the profession from below.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u63	Yeah. It is plain that the profession is not well to take the necessary measures, and especially to fulfil its duties and to attain its ends. I believe that your statements, Madam Counsellor, clearly demonstrate the reality of Lanbide. It does not say that, in this case, this Member of Parliament or this group, but you acknowledge that Lanbide is not up to the circumstances. I am concerned that in your reply you have indicated to me that you are analysing or seeing that it does not work. Look, one of the objectives in this area, in relation to the Department of Employment and Social Policy the past legislature, was both income guarantee income reform and Lanbide reform, it cannot be that now after four years we are like this. I sincerely believe, Madam Counsellor, that this analysis had to be done already, that it had to be clearly identified where the problems were in Lanbide and that the solutions had to be put on the table a long time ago. That is why we in the Vasco Popular-Citizens Group urge you to put the batteries in place immediately, to set in motion and to carry out this comprehensive reform of Lanbide in order to remedy the current shortcomings, to put it at the service of employability and, of course, to enable the Basques who do not have a working opportunity at the moment to have it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u64	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u65	Mrs Garrido, the batteries this government has put on and it has put them on. Even if you don't believe it, we too know how to make diagnoses, not everything is wrong, as bad as you say, and, as I say, we have already started working from every office, listening to those who are attending to the public employment service. We have a very complete map of the things that need to be transformed in each office, where we specifically want to start to notice the changes between those who come to demand a job and those who need to sue someone to hire; ultimately, between workers looking for a job and between companies who need to look for specific profiles. Today we are closing an employment conference in which all kinds of agents are involved, to whom we have asked to contribute, and one of the round tables is dedicated precisely to these necessary changes for Lanbide. And we will follow that approach, first listen and then act, but I have already announced that the changes will begin to feel since the same year 2021. We will have plenty of time to talk, because many of these measures also have to be accompanied by the corresponding budgets. In any case, we know what we have to do: guide and activate with as personalized plans as possible stuck to the needs of companies, but we also need to have a very special look at those over 45, young people and women who are still the pagans of the crises. Some because they have not managed to get into the labour market, others because they have been driven out by the pandemic, because once again they have had to take care of the family, and we have to work with them so that they do not give up having their own project. If we get all that, we'll correct the rest. The rate of intermediation, it is true, I recognize that it is very low and the ambition of this Government is to improve it, because that has to be the purpose. But I want to acknowledge the workers of the Basque Public Employment Service for all hours and the work they have done throughout this pandemic in order to respond not only to the needs of the aid from COVID, but also to all recipients of aid processed through Lanbide. Their dedication is total, but it is true that we have to look to the future – it is our obligation – and we have to improve Lanbide. It is the challenge that we have in the government and one of the fundamental tools for this will be the legal changes that this department has in its legislative horizon in this legislature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Number of points in theme list: "Interpology, by the legislature of the Ostero Galiridas, to the development of EHG, to the chief department of Economics, patience, and environmental, about the income and future of the SHESA route." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u67	Yes, good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Good morning, good afternoon. Hidrocarburos de Euskadi, we're talking about it again. I don't know what you thought when you saw the intern. Perhaps you thought: "I'm going back to Otero with his scritch, Hydrocarbosa de Euskalis, and the fossil bet on my own." I see it differently. I see I give you another chance to predict the change in a strategic direction. Whether you will see it or not. In any case, when we talk about the Hydrocarcuros de Euskadia, we always talk about the use or waste of public money, but we talk about honesty. That's got a context. At the beginning of the morning there was a little talk about it. The context is obviously a climate emergency, and we know what's on top of it. We all know that we need the complete re-tracting activity of our community, and we also know that the production of the retal energy in our community is a terrible product, and that it's still on the return of 8%, isn't it? If we were a European state, except the Luxembourg, we'd be in the last train in the retal energy extension. So we believe that all public effort must go to the retal energy extension. We've talked about this more than once, and you tell me, even when you came to introduce the law, that we have different views around the gas, and we're probably not going to agree. But here I think there are two main axes or two: on the one hand, the interpretation of each round the gas is permitted, but on the other hand, it is profitable. We should be more strict here about the profitableness of the beneficiaries. And there at least, I think we should have an understanding. Hydrocarbros de Euskadi: I'm not going to open history because, of course, you know, because we all know that in 1983, he was born in a concrete context, just when you needed a distraction from energy sources after two oil crisis. He's been looking for hydrocarbures so far, that's his goal, his social goal. I think it's been a bad avenue and we can agree there, because in the end, as an operator, he's only made two wells from the Hydrocarbero de Euskka. One, in 1997, 23 years ago, Gastename, armentia-1 well, and, though he produced a little gas, the project wasn't profitable. That brought him in 2005 to chase after the franchise, and Hydrocarbis de Euskadi has been in pursuit of the franchise for 10 years. We all know how he stopped, he didn't want to stop at last because of the pressure. Meanwhile he made another well in Navarro, a well of Venus-1, in the year 2009, which also suffered a defeat. But in the year 2010, I want to speak to you about this special day, through Unión Fenton and Sky Oil and Gas, into the project of Viura, not like the operator, but with a large part, 37%. All that since 2010 2018. year after year. I told you by the signs I had that I thought this project wasn't profitable at all. You're the one who's got the blonde up on a board. You said to me, "Take your time, Mr. Otero, because Viura's profitable." I wanted to check this suspicion, and then I started asking questions about production, investments, etc., and you went to answer. I think it has come to talk about this hour, because the results make him absolutely doubt what you've promised me and what Hydrocarbros de Euskati had promised. So I consider the data you gave me as an officer and put them in a plot: here it is not acquired because you have not suffered me to die of death, but profit only because, in the end, production and gain are proportional. This is where we see how gas-salment developed. The Viura-3 well became, and then it was said, "Exceltes de Gas." That was said at the moment when the production took place. But this "indicios excelentes de Gas" was a short-term issue and production went down until the end of 2017s. Then, of course, from the Hydrocarbulus de Euka and the projects themselves said that it was necessary to put more money in it, to make more wells, and that it would now be profitable. Reentrada del joyo Viura-1 Sidetroc called 3 or so. Then the moment came when, after making that well, the production went up quite a bit. He went upstairs and it seemed as if things would go better. Eta, orduan, graphikaren momentu honetan, at the peak of production, orduan, bai Euskadik Hydrocarbons, bai Union Fenosa Gasek esan zuten eta iragari zuten hori arrakastatsua zela, errentagarria zela. Are gehiago, prospekzio-lan bat egin zuten, eta esan zuten: "the only gas field in Spain, Viura, will multiply its production by four times in 2020". Oh yes, hemen zegoen ekoizpena bider lau. Time passed and what happened? That what I said didn't work out. If we bring it in as a whole graffiti, up to this day or the summer, you have given me the finders to it, we see that this well has not been profitable to me either. I don't know how much he's been going to be four times this way. I mean, it went tumblers downhill, the production of Hydrocarbulus de Euskadia and Unión Fenton's Viur. I think that, besides the production, the data must also be put into money. 2010. From the year to this year, Hidrocarcuros de Eucharik has had more projects, but he has spent or spent 50 million euros. And he's taken half of the gas research, say, about 25 million. So we've already buried 25 million dollars of the public money in ten years. And I think there's a political responsibilities, and you're responsible for being responsible for having been responsible for the most beautiful energy in the past seven years. It seems to me that this is not the only money that has been spent in the Hydrocarcuros de Euka, because there are other projects. As we know, the Arab project and several other exploration resolutions are in progress. Now we'll see what happens. It has been mentioned in the morning: new law comes. And you're from the government, but your party, EAJ, is trying to keep up with all those projects in Madrid by correcting them, that is to say, a hole that causes a hole in the Hidrocarbous de Euskak to be bigger and bigger. It's like, "What now? "I think it's time to ask. We have seen in a conventional ditch that Hydrocarbros de Eukai has not had the income, and that a great pile of public money has cost us all ten millions of millions of millions. And it's time to say that it's time for Hidrocarcuros de Basque to complete his adventure. If this happens in a conventional gas station, what would not happen in a marriageable tomb, as we all know, less profitable than the others. So I think it's time you talked about it, too. I think it's time to be honest. In 2018, without data in hand, you told me the pit was profitable. And it's not. Time has taught us it's not. Then Hydrocarbros de Eukako would say that it would be profitable or not. Hydrocarbros de Euskati will not say "our project is a failure." That must be a political decision. As you and I and everyone know. It seems to me that you have a good chance to make a prediction here today, and say it to the hydrocarbrouss and the public money that goes to the Hydrocarbis de Basques, and to announce that, in truth, all the money we need in order to make the most ecological transitions are going where we need them. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u68	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In answer to my singing, Mrs. Tapia, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all of you. Mr. Otero, as you say, you give me the opportunity to answer with severity and accuracy, and I shall try to profit by it. We must mention at first that we speak of strategy, and we must place the strategy in its context. And we must mention that the strategy about energy is this: We have to make a transition. We have to make a most urgent transition. That, as the President has said before, is not done from one day to another. In 1980, as you have said, we suffered a couple of paraffin crisis, and we decided that we had to change all that because of the paraffin and coal, that we had to make a transition, and that the gas should be used as transitional energy. I've discussed this more than once. Our strategy has three columns: On the one hand we have often mentioned, as you have said, that to examine and to set up re-enforcements of energy, and, as you have said, that what we are to create at this moment ought to go to the retal; but in this interval gas is the transition. And that's how we keep talking about it, and he's still standing in our strategy. It must be mentioned when we started the gas in Euskkadin, 40 years ago, that it was about 0.5 p.m., part of your mix in 1982. Today it's more than 37%. And what we've accomplished is to get off the oil dependence to 44% of Eucharid. In those days, it was almost 92%. Let us therefore consider that this is a means of transition, and that the gas in itself is not an end. Gas is not a target in itself. Gas is a transitional energy. And when we talk about transition, the lehendakari said, we have to start from the situation we have and go towards renewable energies, of course, but we have to make that transition. It's the year 2020. If we want to achieve 100% renewable energy by 2050, we obviously have to do that. It is accepted everywhere, it is internationally accepted that gas is a transition energy to that path. But let's go to the data. What data have we obtained, what benefits have we obtained in Euskadi regarding the gas of that strategy that was launched in the 1980s? And I'm going to give you some data. At the time we launched the construction of the gas network, in which the Basque Government invested more than EUR 84 million. Currently the EVE maintains 10% of Enagas Transport of the North. Which means, we keep making that bet. The Bay of Bizkaia project also cost the EVE. At the moment we have a stake of around €900,000 in BBE and almost €31 million in BBG. What returns have we obtained from the gas in Euskadi? For we have obtained for the Basque Government something close to the €804 million since 2004, which has been invested in all kinds of policies. Euskadi's investment in gas has therefore been, not only economically profitable, but socially and socially profitable in terms of using that energy as a transition. Let's go to the Viura project business plan that, as you well know, although you haven't said, it's not a single well. Oh yes, Viura proyektua ez da putzu bat Bakarrik Egypt, Viura proyektua zerbait handiagoa da. If we analyze the economic profitability of SHESA, of course, we have to say that, when this possibility was discovered, this deposit – deposit, which I do not have – in 2010, was the most important finding of the state in the last 25 years. In 2012 the concession was applied for, but it was not until July 2017 when, after a lengthy administrative process, the concession was achieved. The development plan, therefore, is currently under way, is under way with a single producer well, and with a single producer well it is more complex to obtain beneficial results, but not only from the point of view of profit, but also of the return of the investments that have been made. Therefore, also if we go to the data – as the annual accounts reflect, and you have them – in 2018 profits were obtained for 3.1 million euros and in 2019 they were obtained 5.4 million euros. It is clear that there is still an outstanding investment to amortize, but we should not confuse the outstanding investment to amortize – because amortization is done in different years, as you well know – with the losses a company may have. We must therefore be able to analyse that longer time and, moreover, we must ensure that the field is fully exploited, that is, that there is not a single well, but that it is fully exploited. That is where we are right now, there are outstanding investments, the sales revenues accumulated by SHESA have been EUR 29 million, and there are outstanding amortisation investments amounting to around EUR 13.6 million. In addition, we have to consider that this year 2020 is not a typical year, it is a complex year because of the pandemic we have experienced, which also affects the situation. We are going further and we are going to talk about zero kilometre gas versus imported gas, because I think it is also relevant in this debate. If we analyze a study carried out by SHESA in 2019 with a consultancy, using standards ISO 14.067, 14.040 and 14.044, it has been calculated that emissions that would be avoided if all gas consumed by Euskadi were produced locally amount to a savings of 1.3 million tonnes of CO 2 at least a year, if it is local rather than international. To reduce these emissions we would need to have 8,500,000 solar panels, we would need 518 medium-sized turbines and we would need 2 and a half million adult trees. If we compare the perforation, production, treatment and transport of Euskadi's consumption with imported gas compared to local gas, what we would achieve is to avoid 70% of CO emissions. 2 with local gas in front of imported gas. I therefore believe that producing it locally, of course, in addition to being a transitional energy, contributes effectively to decarbonisation objectives. If we do not want zero kilometre gas and admit that we prefer it to be an imported gas, to come from environments where it is produced without public control, with lower demands in terms of working or environmental conditions, even produced, perhaps, with the fracking technique, for let's say so too. We would, of course, prefer to make a contribution to the reduction of CO emissions. 2 with a locally exploited gas. If we analyze the gas of the year 2019 and 2020, the gas that has been consumed in Euskadi has come mainly from wells of Nigeria and Trinidad and Tobago. How do we know what kind of gas we consume? We prefer a local gas, I insist, because it is not a target in itself. Gas is a transitional energy that we will continue to use, but not in a unique way. Our energy bet, our energy strategy is to make use of renewables along with that energy efficiency that I was talking about, and that's why we also passed the Energy Sustainability Act, in order to increase that efficiency. Renewables are, in short, our goal, as they are theirs. A bet decided by renewable energy projects. In the solar and wind sectors, in the first instance, because they are the ones that produce the most, the most efficient, but, in later stages or in parallel, also using forest or agricultural biomass. So it's not to use the gas by itself, but to make that transition, and to make investments in retractables. And now, Euskadin, we've started some of our projects and we'll continue to do that. But we can't forget we have to make that transition. And, as the President has mentioned, it is impossible to move from one day to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u71	Yes, thank you. In short, there are three, four counts. I agree: The transition must be made. And during the transition, we need gas, we need oil, we need nuclear energy today, and we need everything because we can't do things from day to day. That's clear. Gas 80th and 90. in the decades we could make use of the transition as a spring from the Myrgetic, or as a bridge. It might settle, but it's not so hard to accept it that way. But it's the other thing today, 2020. in the year, and in the state we have, and in the time when our efforts and our public money, I think, are generally encouraged by renewed energy. And we can't do it all at once. We have to decide where we put public money. That's why what we're asking you to show the leadership to show us where the road should go. And not the other way: to place public funds to continue with the Gasist. I'm not questioning the plans of the '80s', I'm making a question of the decisions of today and of this decade. You said the gas strategy was useful in cash. I talk about the "Hidrocarbukos de Euskadia." And you told me the pit is profitable, and I think I've taught you it's not profitable. But the problem of Hydrocarbulus de Euchardi is not only that he does not acquire income in Viuran: it is, in itself, the entire function of the defense, of failure. And you say, "Yes, the depreciation will take longer." But this is the direction. I hope I see you well. Ander Rodriguez helped me do a good handwriting, and I think you can see it. This is the accumulated amount of money that SHESA has taken, or buried in public money in the last decade. The data in the last nine months is temporary, the others are executed. I mean, Hydrocarcuros de Euska has cost us a lot of money. $81 million. That's right, that's it. When you say "not a mile away" and "come from it," and I don't know what, there's only one thing that's wrong with you: Facts. And the reality tells us that in the past ten years, 80 million euros have gone to SESA's hole. To compare the data, how many thousand and millions of panels must be placed? It would have been done in June with that money, and with 80 million we could have installed more than 200,000 solar splashes. And that money doesn't exist and there's no gas. Hydrocarbros de Eukati said: We're gonna have to do more shit. The wells aren't free, it costs tens of millions to build a new well. I counted the mollillo joke: The more we do... How I lose money with a well, the more I do it, you know, we'll lose more money. Here's the whole plot for the whole decade. I repeat, there's political responsibility here, and you're responsible for it. You and EAJ are determined to continue with these projects, even in Madrid. It's very clear that Hydrocarbulus de Eukakia is deficitary. It's a company that would already be at the club in private areas, and you're keeping it. There's no financial sense. There's no economic sense. Because if he was giving the world's profits, then it would be a complicated discussion. But there's no discussion now. So I don't understand what you're waiting for. The time has come to show a public leader. It's time to send signals to the climate emergency. And you want to sell it to us, a gas project that doesn't exist and doesn't exist and doesn't have an income, or a few projects. Sorry, your time is up. Hydrocarbulus de Euskadi has run out of time. And it's time to close it. It's just coincidence, you're both here. At the beginning of the SHESA, it is said that the chief departments of Ogas and chief departments of the Power Department are to carry the subject to the Council of Government, and thence the disappearance of Hicardroros de Euscadi may come. You're running late.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u72	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u73	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I don't know why you don't like gas, but I'm afraid you really don't like it. When we're really talking about SHESA, we're not talking about a well in Viu, we're working around a gas-hobi, and a ditch isn't only working with a well, and you know that. And we're saying we have options, and he's looking at SHESA. He's looking at another chance that's in the Armian area around Gasteiz. That's what we're talking about, really. And when we say CO 2 We don't want to see that coming down 70% of the fluids. But what spills at Trinidad y Tobago or Niger really goes on to the atmosphere like Euskadin. And even when it's bound to come from ship to ship, it's a terrible CO. 2 it flows. Then if we don't want to consider that, we don't want to. But that's got to be put on the table, too. And, really, it's a long-term exploitation, as you know, and it's time to look over the length of the time. But I don't want to go any further into it, because I really want to say something about the renewings. I have mentioned: the second, if the gas is a transition, and the gas is zero kilometre, it is better, now, for the third, of course, that it is retractable. And that's what we're starting to do and we have to do more. You mentioned the project in Ekian. Project 24 megawatts is already running. But at the Krean, the Mondragon team, and Equire with Iberdorla, we've set up a park that will be much bigger, or it'll be after all the administrative procedure. Must be 120 megawatts, obviously the largest Eukadin. And what we've accomplished is, in a certain way, to increase tremendously the energy that now arises from solar power. But it is not enough, and after a break of many years, about 15 years, we have also set up a company, Aixendar, to make wind energy, today the most efficient of all renewables, also a reality in Euskadi. And we want to be able to start the construction of wind farms in Euskadi in 2022. To that end, we have also started with all administrative procedures in four different places. We want to achieve 300 megawatts in 2025 from renewable energy sources, but for this we need to launch new projects. But also, through the Basque Energy Agency, renewables, solar, thermal, geothermal or biomass projects are being supported, on a smaller scale, by small administrations, small businesses and private individuals. The results are also making it possible to give a great boost to energy, electricity and thermal self-consumption, so that we can also democratise this type of authorization. We are in projects, therefore, on a large scale and on a small scale. We need the small-scale ones to be relevant too, and I will also give you some data in this regard, because this year 2020 €6 million has been made available in support of self-consumption facilities and at the moment there are 500 applications for an amount of around €2.5 million and 12 megawatts. In other words, we still have the resources to increase this aid and these self-consumption projects a lot. With them we have an additional 20% compared to the total power installed right now in Euskadi. So we must continue with the solar force and the power of wind, because that is something that somehow will somehow get us out of here and give us the way to creation. But for this, as you know, we must also be effective, and we can't place them anywhere, or parks attached to solar power, or to windpower. In fact, as with the gas, we must find the best places, and we must achieve that these resources are really effective. We can't get away from that path. We've got to be effective in setting back power, being effective in our homes, but also in business, and we have to provide an alternative to corporations and homes in order to make it work. That's our strategy, and that's what we're going to do. And we believe that there is no other way, and we believe that it is the best way to respond to the climate crisis and emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, "about the state of the aeronautic sector of EH Presidency and environmental development of the EH billes." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u75	Hello, good morning again. The black days are the last for the job industry. Gestamp, Matricería Deusto, and GTS, have bet this week with the destruction of 200 industrial jobs. In the aeronautic sector, Aernova announced that she was planning to fire 101 workers last week. The ITP company, on the other hand, has announced a collective release in the works of Setatoon and Barakaldo, and has produced 155 workers in Zamudi, after the departure of another 121. Even this month, in the Alestis firm, which is part of the aeronautic sector, the other 70 fireds have been completed. The abovementioned aeronautical companies have destroyed 427 jobs in these weeks. And that's what we've only mentioned to the big ones, because the impact on SMEs is more difficult to assess, although it will certainly also be important. If we add to this the silent dismissal of eventual personnel – only in ITP, in Ezkerraldea, 117 since March – we are faced with the disappearance of more than 10% of the employment of the Basque aeronautical sector in recent weeks, 10% of the employment of a sector. On October 2nd, we asked you what you were gonna do to deal with the problems of the sector. And the only thing we have seen so far is that the announced expressions are taking effect, and also that new dismissions are being announced. Without seeing a solution or any public cooperation. That "without seeing" doesn't mean it hasn't been, so you'll have to explain it to us. Companies need liquor. There have been even more rumours or rumors about the rifle. It's also been discussed about the origin of a fund to aid value companies beyond the Airbus. What did you do and what you're gonna do? In particular, we should be grateful to the answers of the three most exact subjects, as to the measures taken and received to be received. I'll tell you what my friend knows and what he thinks and what he intends to do in that process, and what he's up to, or what he's going to do with the fund or funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u76	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, that's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u77	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, it's true we talked about it a little while ago. In the aeronautic sector, especially the aids or initiative to take place within two months. On the one hand, the short term, as you were saying: in a short time, there must be a few companies which may be in some way in some way of treatment, and it must be admitted that the situation is related to what has happened around the COVID. In that case, the situation will be resolved in a long time. He won't get along any day. Therefore, short-term actions, first of all, to ensure the survival of the aeronautical sector – but not only of the aeronautical sector – in such a way that we use all the resources at our disposal so that, if any type of adjustment has to be produced, it is done in the least traumatic way possible; that is, that we can work hand in hand with each and every one of the agents to ensure that such survival can be ensured through measures of general flexibility, generation of time bags, long-term ERTE and all kinds of mechanisms, together with exceptional tools, in addition to those of Elkargi, already made available and made flexible. These Bideratu COVID-19 tools will also be increased and made more flexible over the next year. Also medium- and long-term proceedings, aimed precisely at those proceedings that you said. If some kind of grouping of companies are to be produced, obviously, the Basque Government has sufficient tools through its funds, both public-private and public, to take part in and encourage such mergers. In the case of the fund, the airfield, which is going to launch the Government of the State, we are in talks with the Government of the State so that we can also participate and provide funding to that fund. It's not the only performance. We cannot forget the long, very long term, but R & D in new aviation, new fuels and new engines, also has to be part of our action, and so it is contemplated and agreed with the state government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u79	.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes, I'm glad to hear a few things. I'm telling you, I don't want you to fail in this job, because defeat means the destruction of jobs. And I don't want that. I want you to succeed. We have also made our humble contribution during the negotiation of Madrid's budgets, when we've put that matter on the table, and we don't know whether the amount of money that's made there is also modest, but I think it'll be helpful because we're ready in this direction. And we agree with a reflection: We need to find non- traumatic paths. A company like Aernnova, how much money can be saved on labor costs in a year by firing 100 workers? Five million? Eight million? For a company that makes 700 million euros a year, is it really going to be its survival in those 5 or 6 million euros a year? I think you can look for other ways. Above all, because we all know that the sector is in a short-term crisis, which may last a few years, but short-term and motivated by very specific circumstances. We must, therefore, remark that the necessity of taking the non- traumatic paths, and of taking the means of elasticity, and also of taking public aids in a difficult moment, without taking these traumatic paths, without taking them for compositivity, breath, oxygen. But there must also be an example of you. Mrs Tapia, your goat, when you announce layoffs in a company that has just released a good amount of money in grants, such as Gestamp, 8 million, or 20 million, or Aernnova, 7 million, you have to last something longer than the interview in a media outlet. And Mr. Lehendakari's goat too, when he says, "This is not the way." They have to be assertive and they have to be demanding with those companies that have received funds, that have the kidney lined, because they have won hundreds of millions in recent years, and that also now depend, to a large extent, on public support to survive. Requirement that such present, past and future aid must be accompanied by joint responsibility on the part of firms in the defence of employment when it is not given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u80	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u81	Thank you. Mr. Casanova, I'm glad you agree, at least, that you have to look for those roads by suppleness. I think we need opportunities like that at the moment. In my opinion, at this moment, we have to keep the initiatives that have been working on this sector for so long, and become a major sector. That's why I said we have tools to keep these companies financially, and we're flying with the cluster. You mentioned great companies. How are the little ones? I have to say that the little ones are a little better, because they're more digested, but we have to keep them that way. And when this aerofunts is put into action, it will be principally directed to the smaller, because they must also be preserved. The big ones must be there, but we must get them to keep the little ones in full chain of values. That's clear. Beraz, gure helburua bera yes. Eta gure helburua exijentea of age exijentea izango da. It was batan edo bestean aipatu daiteke komunikabideetan edo pribatuan, baisa, nire ustez, una honetan behar duguna da epe laborrean honi eutsi..., but also looking to the future. And to look to the future you have to make investments. Aid for R & D or business participation must continue to exist. Sometimes they are complicated to explain both things, but we have to attend to the short term and the medium and the long, as you have said well. As you have participated in this initiative at this time, I believe that we must continue on that path also by the Basque Government. To be demanding, yes, but to attend to that short and long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a member of the Basque Groups of Popula-Ciudadans, made to the head of the Treasury and Ogas, in regard to the budgets of the host." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Azpiazu. The closure of the hotel shop decreed earlier this month has been the closest thing to the entrance of an elephant in a casketry. The hospitality has been closed, the hoteliers are told to lose their way of life and they are also told that, in the end, we will be seeing. The worst is not the closure, although it is tragic for the 65,000 families who depend on the hospitality, but the absolute lack of legal certainty in which these entrepreneurs are left. Hospitality is a strategic sector, generates employment, pays its taxes, despite the insinuations of its Government, and, in addition, the administrations use it as a collector. It is not possible to decree the closure of the hotelry to the brave, without announcing a plan, without announcing the legal framework in which this situation will develop later. What happened in Euskadi? What have you achieved with your actions, inactions and statements? Firstly, what has been achieved is the criminalization of hospitality. It seems that the hoteliers are primarily responsible for the contagion. There are studies that show just the opposite. I quote only two. There is one of the Workers' Compensation Association, which calculated by 5.35% the percentage of cases that had to do with exposure in the workplace, in this case bars and restaurants. And there is another that reduces it to 3.5%, which, moreover, goes in line with what has been detected in other countries – England, Holland – where the hotels have accounted for about 3% of the outbreaks: 3.8 in the Netherlands and in Spain, about 3.5. In any case, secondly, what has this government done? For, look, uncertainty has been generated, there is no action plan on this issue on the part of your Government, something as simple as telling hoteliers what to stick to. How will the aid be implemented? With what methodologies? There is also a lack of coordination between administrations, processing problems, digital gaps... I'm going to give you three very brief examples. The Euskadi Bondo Denda: in this agreement it was established that the hoteliers and the small merchants were to be returned the equivalent of the bonds that their customers spent in the approximate period of a week. Well, there have been traders who have had to wait up to three weeks to be able to charge, and in many cases, even by paying them more than 2,000 euros, which is a very important amount for this type of trade. In order to register for the program, you had to be perfectly up to date and perfectly with the accounts in order. Secondly, in Bilbao City Hall there is also a bonus that can only be purchased at certain times, via an internet connection in a very specific period. This, in fact, makes it possible for not all people who might have the right to access it to enjoy it. The hoteliers make collectors for the Bizkaia Provincial Council, collect VAT, even collect VAT from their homeowners. In addition, small entrepreneurs are not allowed to fraction payments for monthly amounts of less than 150 euros, which may seem an irritating amount for some of you, but which is an important amount for these small entrepreneurs, including not only hospitality but also small business. As you see, Mr Azpiazu, the situation is more than critical. And as this is going on and now your department will be preparing the draft budgets, I ask you the following question: What budget measures in support of hospitality do you plan to include in the 2021 draft budgets?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u84	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u85	Mr. Gordillo, I agree with you that the closing of the Euscadian host has been a great influence on the sector until in some cases the future of many business headlines has been shaken down, mostly small or self-nononomous companies. This state, which no one wants, has probably enabled preventive measures to maintain the extent of the coronabirus Euscadian coronabirus. I do not share the fact that the justification for your question is based on the fact that the Basque Government has been announcing some partial and very far-reaching measures, in any case, from the calculations carried out by the sector itself. In my view, this statement is, at least, inaccurate, since, beyond the announcements, the Basque Government has taken the necessary steps that public administrations must take to minimize the economic effects of strictly sanitary decisions. The hospitality sector has been no stranger to these economic initiatives. This same month, by exemplifying the last of the approved programmes and not repeating any of the previous ones, which have been quite enough, nothing can be blamed on the Government for the delay in adopting economic measures aimed at the sector, because direct aid has been announced and approved promptly. And I would say more to you: it has been done in the way that your parliamentary group has claimed them on more than one occasion: with direct, very direct aid, because it is in a certain situation. They are not small gestures, they are far-reaching decisions, which the Government has understood to be proportionate and transparent, and which, from what is seen in the execution that solitudes are having, are going to be an important aid to the sectors to which they are directed. Turning directly to the question, what I can tell you today is that the Budget for the financial year 2021 is a regular budget, with ordinary measures for public policies, which, in the specific case we are talking about, affects this sector of activity like any other budget. It is a budget that, logically, incorporates the extraordinary aid that they have incurred during the financial year 2020, and will entail in the financial year 2021 multiannual sectoral spending commitments and that, if necessary, will seek and find financing, through the usual budgetary mechanisms, for any extraordinary measure that is necessary for this or any other sector of activity in the light of the evolution of the pandemic. As an economic and financial adviser, I can assure you that the endorsement programme, in which there have been specific reservations for this sector through Elkargi, will be budgeted and will be included in the text of the bill in the same terms as this year. Let us hope that the hospitality sector and, by extension, trade and tourism will opt for these loans in good condition.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u86	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Fat yellow.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u87	Mr Azpiazu, as you paint it, it seems that the situation is ideal and nothing further from reality. Talk to the hoteliers to see what they think. In any case, I would simply like to reiterate to you from here that you have our extended hand so that Budgets 2021 have sufficient items so that, when the situation permits, we can enjoy our hospitality again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u88	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u89	I thank you very much, Mr Gordillo, for your willingness to support the Government's budgets, which will certainly, as they will be very good, have almost no other opportunity and no other remedy than to do so. I understand that you want to anticipate and want a more than exhaustive implementation of the measures. But, as you will understand, even the Governing Council is not yet aware of the draft budgets, which will end up studying next 15 December. I ask you to have a little patience, since in less than a month you will surely have in the parliamentary committee that you yourself preside over comprehensive information on what you are asking now and it will be the advisor of the branch who will delimit, on behalf of the Government, the budgetary measures for which you are asking today and we will, I suppose, give you the satisfaction that you are asking us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u90	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, Joseph Manuel Gilegas, the popular group of American lawyers, the head of the Board of Education, the development of the intellectuals." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Let's talk about innovation, counselor. And first of all, I must apologize to you, because I am not sure – we have had many doubts – whether you should be the recipient of this question or should be the Economic Development Advisor or perhaps the Lehendakari himself. And this is a demonstration of the situation in which the issue of innovation is currently in place. I mean, I'd say it's not just horizontal, it's diffuse. But, in any case, I think we agree that we should talk more often about innovation and also that the Basque Government should give it more importance than it currently gives it. Because innovation is a good indicator of Euskadi's health. And today I will also refer to an innovation indicator that is particularly interesting, even though agencies like Innobasque, for example, do not take it into account when talking about innovation health and use other indicators that are more convenient for them. I think everyone would agree that the number of patents is a good indicator of the health of innovation. And, in this respect, my question is based on a pure, pure and hard data, without any kind of interpretation. According to data from Eustat, published on 28 October last, on the panel of indicators of innovation extrapolated to the situation of Euskadi, the situation of Euskadi is slightly lower than that of the European Union. But one of the data that emerges from this report is that from 2010 to 2017, which is the last value we have reviewed, the patent application in Euskadi has been reduced by a negligible nothing 40.19%. And the question is simple: how does the advisor appreciate this fact and what are the causes of this worrying fall from his point of view?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u92	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Sir Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u93	President of the Parliament, President, chief of the Department, members of the legislature, good morning. Gil jauna, in response to his question, to the patent application, is one of the three indicators that make up the evolution of intellectual assets of the European Innovation Indicators Panel Scoreboard or scoreboard. The panel is structured into four main blocks, with 10 dimensions, for a total of 27 indicators, from which a composite index is calculated that reflects the weight of the different dimensions. The main objective of this panel is precisely to carry out a comparative analysis of the innovation performance of the Member States of the European Union and to know the strengths and weaknesses of the research and innovation systems. The patent application is one of the 27 indicators, but one, the "research and innovation performance" should be assessed in the set of indicators in that panel. In this regard, according to the report published by Eustat on 28 October 2020, this year Euskadi has strengthened its position among European countries with high innovation, according to the EIS 2020.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u94	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I figured the answer would come from the dilution of the indicator among many other indicators. But I think the councillor will agree with me that it is no longer an indicator. The number of patents is a particularly relevant indicator. In view of that indicator, be one more between 27 or one more, we have no choice but to recognize that we have a problem. And I understand that it is not a problem that we can blame you, Mr. Counsellor, who has just come practically to the Basque Government, but it is true that this reflects once again the myth of the good management that for years the Basque Nationalist Party has sold to the citizens as broken goods. What are we doing? Or what are we not doing with the innovation in Euskadi so that, exercise after exercise, according to the indicator of patents, we are depending on them so alarmingly? Well, I'm going to tell you something that we are doing and that partly explains that result. Mr Urkullu, in a remarkable exercise of rotating doors, has recently appointed Ms Cristina Uriarte, her predecessor, as Commissioner for Science, Technology and Innovation, who has held the position of Education Advisor since 2016, and who is responsible for these disastrous but not lonely results. In other words, the person under whose mandate patents have fallen by more than 40% has been put in charge of innovation, which shows the real importance this government attaches to innovation. In this regard, we wanted to convey two messages to you. First, we believe that researchers should be taken care of, because in the end, they are the ones who generate patents. Second message: we believe that innovation must be taken seriously, because innovation is the future, it is the long term and it is also the short term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u96	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u97	Bai. Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Gil, as a good academic you are, rigour is one of the most important elements when it comes to debate and analysis. And, as I indicated in my first speech, according to the European Innovation Indicators Panel EIS 2020, the innovation value in Euskadi is on the European average and at the level of the group of countries with high innovation, such as Belgium, Germany, Austria, Ireland, France, Estonia and Portugal. I'm going to show you this graph, where the blue column is the European average, with 0.51, and next to it is the Basque average, with 0.50, and behind Estonia, Portugal and Cyprus, is Spain, with 0.43. That is to say, as I have just indicated in my previous speech, the data on patent applications should not be seen as an isolated indicator. In indicators of the EIS 2020, concerning the impact on jobs or the impact on sales, or the impact on attractive research systems, Euskadi stands out above the European average and has evolved significantly in recent years. And that's the objective fact. For example, with regard to the number of indexed scientific publications, scientific production has doubled in a decade, also increasing the quality of these publications. Between 2009 and 2019, Euskadi has more than doubled its scientific production. Just as I had the opportunity to move them recently, in the presentation of the general outlines for this legislature, our commitment to research and innovation is irrevocable. For this reason, this government has the firm intention of increasing investment in R & D & I in the scientific and university fields by 6% on average annually, given that research and scientific and technological development are a necessary condition for economic prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u98	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask you, Martíni together, a member of the Society of Podemos-IU, a member of the Board of Education, concerning the downfalls of the Ordizian School." Mr Martínezlin, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u99	In the resolution of 2019, the recommendation to the Board of Education says that the department has to evaluate and improve the impact of the plans for the 2019-20th study of Ordizia, to help promote a higher balance between school students during the separation. Besides, considering that the event of this learning extends the means of increasing the balance, Mr. Bilartz, what correct measures will the Board of Education take to repair the serious instability of the Ordiria?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u100	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u101	Yes, thank you, Mr. Martínez Izón. Good morning. First of all, if you'll allow me, I'd like to take advantage of this question to thank you for the work of Merene Balluerka, who has hitherto been Mrs. Holding your question, the resolution of the Arlation you spoke of in justification recommended to the Board of Education: "In the year 2019-20 study of the town of Ordizia, supported by public funds, the plans of planning in the case of the colleges of the First Education could have been evaluated, and in order to help to maintain a more correct balance in the distribution of students educated among these schools." From that time forward, the herd has been in contact with the interrogator and at work, in order to respond to this recommendation. So he sent him all the information available about the theme.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u102	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u103	Yeah. Mr. Bilar, I thought you'd answer something, but the data is on the table. As to the state of Ordizia's school, the license on the origin of families is extremely severe. Family students with eucalyptic origins go to the public school at 64% of the Ordiria and 95% of the science school. At the year 2018-2019, the Board of Education admitted to him in a completely irregular manner the license of a student of science 12, cutting his license plate. The interrogator says that in the Ordizian colleges there is a serious balance of origin. The public prosecutor says that the Board of Education had violated the sequence of procedures for accepting the students and school. The intermediary, seeing the balance, asked your section to lead to the situation. It indicates that accepting the third class of science at school is going wrong. He also said something about the life plate to your section. The right of choosing a college for the children who are under the care of families protects the law, and it is lawful. But the intermediary in its own resolve says that this right cannot be placed above the social and balanced community of the people. The maintenance of this contempt affects the community's co-operation and inculction, the process of euphoration makes it difficult, and it makes multiplicity difficult to live in an exaggerated manner. Having said all this, the Board of Education must cease to take measures which increase the balance in the Ordire. So if the Education Department has a will to solve the state of the Ordizia, there are certain measures which it ought to take: Science Education Planning on a line, or at most two lines, the demands that are limited and scheduled to two lines, lead to the public Ordizian School. To conclude, I should like to leave two great ideas on the table. It is inaccurate to break the decrees which the Board of Education has prescribed, as the Arlic has said, and as the Prosecutor has said. On the other hand, public administration must be the guarantee of social competition, inclussion, and co-operation, both in the townships and in the schools, in the euccanications of the community. The decisions he's made in the Ordi are quite contrary. It's time for the damage done, and to direct the present balance, because the Ordik and their education needed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u104	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u105	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Martínezin, as I have already mentioned, has been developing the necessary activities to answer this recommendation. At the beginning of the 2020th, the Board of Education gave the Artabanus a report of this recommendation, and at the same time asked the representative Land of Gipulia to begin the analysis of the planning of the College of Childs and Colleges of the First Education. It must be observed that the decree, which regulates the plan of the japanese schools, does not make a difference between the sports of education. It states that the offer must be sufficient and proper in each district, and that it must be established in the schools supported by public funds. As the interrogation was repeated in July 2020, the editor of the school and Plang has reviewed the development of the amount of license and the data of the order reflected in the recent statements of consent. In general, the number of squares which are free in each school, ending with the ordinary process of approval, depends on the number of the squares offered and the number of addresses each school receives. The Board of Education has made an effort to arrange the scientific planning of 2020-2021 that matches the collected information. The Urdaneta keeps the offer of three lines so that he can answer the expected license plate application and he offers two teams for three years, three teams for four years and three teams for five years. This offer accords with the instruction plan of the treaty, according to the expected license plate. Learning has put a resource against the planning of this 2020-20-21 study, and has concluded that one more class for the 3-year-olds needs to be planned, inevitably, in order to solve the problem of the pile of classrooms. And he said at the same time that to accept students who arrive outside the period of time must be useful. As you can see, the planning resolutions always have different views from the networks that form our education system. All the details were sent to the intermediary this week, but the problem you're talking about is serious. Of course, we'll try to find some solutions about it. That's why we'll be ready to work together. I want to take advantage of these moments, these words to remind you that today is the day of the master-maist. And with that excuse, for every worker that has any part in teaching, my gratitude for the work they do every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u106	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interpelation, the popular team of the Carmelo Barrio Barrojas-Ciudadanos, a member of the Medical Department, on account of COVID-19, and about being new activities in pharmaceuticals." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u107	jauna: Thank you, President. Good morning again, counselor, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. We are interested in this inquiry about the use of all available resources to combat the virus. In this case, we are interested and asked about the role of the Community pharmacy. Furthermore, in the Ministry of Health and in the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, which she attended, a proposal was made on 18 November in connection with the role of the community pharmacy, the family pharmacy, in the proceedings on COVID-19. Mr. Illa opened the door for pharmacies to participate in SARS-CoV-2 detection activities by applying rapid testing. That door was opened, asking the autonomous communities to want to implement this measure to present a plan, detailing how to do so. That was what was announced at the end of last day's interterritorial council meeting. The minister himself – we have also heard from the counselor – has acknowledged the meritorious work of the network of pharmacies. He noted that plans would be required for such establishments to be able to participate in such schemes. Normal plans, according to needs and trainings: what types of test were to be used, what personnel were to be used, if there were to be COVID circuits and not COVID on the network, how they will provide the data... That is to say, issues that are raised and resolved, at least within the competence of the Community pharmacy. These collaborations with the pharmacy offices will be used in the autonomous communities, and in other countries it is already a common practice. We have seen, recently, an interesting report in the Basque press, in a Gipuzcoan medium, about what happens a step from here, in Hendaya. There was a very interesting report entitled "Negative in ten minutes" and described an interesting situation regarding the conduct of the tests of a trained pharmacy office. Near here, very close to San Sebastián, very close to Irun, a step away, something that was very well organized in France, in this case in Hendaya, in the community pharmacies of that country. Good. We must also say, as a benchmark, that the European Union, that Brussels validates that pharmacies can test antigens. And many more questions they could ask. Validate that approach. We are seeing that Madrid and Catalonia are already preparing protocols on these issues, as they have already done and other countries are doing. In addition, there is one issue, which is the fundamental one in relation to this circumstance and which we all know: the community pharmacies, the pharmacy offices, for the most part, are perfectly prepared and perfectly trained to assume that responsibility of collaboration with the Administration, in something as important as the full use of resources in the fight against the pandemic, in the fight against COVID, and in the different functions and needs that are and must be carried out. That is, the disposition and training and preparation are there. Now what we need to analyse and what we want to know is the attitude and approach of the Department of Health Administration in relation to that proposal, which is already validated by the European Union, which is already being carried out elsewhere and which enjoys a significant willingness and training by those who can join that responsibility. There is a very interesting document of the Group COVID-19 of the Spanish Society of Family and Community Pharmacy, where we analyze a big question: why do we perform rapid tests for the detection of coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, also in the community pharmacy offices? There are ten responses or ten widely explained approaches. Of course, I'm not going to do it here, because it would take a long time. Why do quick tests? "Because today it is necessary to stop the spread of COVID-19," he explains. Because the national health system is also under great care pressure and, in this sense, there is a possibility of collaboration, which is exemplary on other issues and could be so here too. Because the pharmacist is a university health professional, trained in the relationship of these activities, of these tests, as could also be for vaccinations, in case it may be necessary to immunize the population massively. That's another one of the elements. Why? Because they are health facilities that are already part of the national health system by giving effect to the non-hospital pharmaceutical benefit to the population. Community pharmacies are private health establishments of public interest, subject to health planning by the health administrations of the Autonomous Communities, i.e. health establishments. Why else? Because there is a growing demand for citizens in relation to these health areas, also in the case of testing. Because the network of Spanish community pharmacies has proximity, accessibility and coverage for 99.9% of the population, a very important element. Because, according to all surveys, the population trusts the community pharmacist. Because many pharmacies already provide similar services to the population; it is common for patients and users to go to the pharmacy to conduct self-control tests of clinical parameters by digitopunction, such as glycemia, cholesterol, or, in concert with several autonomic health administrations, HIV testing. In other words, there is an essential preparation in this collective. A large number of community pharmacists and pharmacies are demanding to collaborate in managing the health crisis. There is this active provision, because they are prepared, because they want to work together and are willing to work together, and they have the means and resources to do so at the highest level. And because they are already in the network, in addition, with the National Health System, and they can guarantee the traceability of the results in the tests. That is, there is preparation, there is possibility, there is coverage and there is a willingness to implement areas of action in the fight against the pandemic in an essential way in the detection of tests. But it could also be in the vaccination already announced by the ministry and by the President of the Government himself. Not only the Ministry, but also the European Union has validated these practices and this need, seeing the willingness, capacity, competence and possibilities of pharmacies in collaboration with the Health Administration. In addition, this practice is already true in other countries, also in the collaboration in vaccination. But, well, we are talking more specifically about the detection test; in any case, everything can be an integral activity in the fight against the pandemic. We would like to know what the Government's intentions are with regard to the active involvement of pharmacies in public care by the VOCID-19 pandemic with regard to the possibility of carrying out virus detection tests and, in the future, probably participating in a vaccination plan where many means are to be used in very short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u108	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u109	Mr. President, Congressman, chief physician, good morning. Mr Barrio, I have to admit that some of the statements you made during your speech have surprised me, but I will try to sort myself out in the answer. You raise two different questions in the question statement: one related to the participation of pharmacies in conducting diagnostic tests for the detection of COVID and the other related to their participation in the announced vaccination plan. Well, with regard to the first question, you say in the justification, and you have said again in your speech, that the ministry has opened the door for pharmacies to participate in the conduct of COVID screening tests. I would put a lot into that statement, because this is a demonstration by the Spanish Minister of Health in the Interterritorial Health System Commission last week, on 18 November, which I actually attended. And what the minister said there, in the first place, was: that the European Union was disadvantaging the massive use of antigen tests to deal with the spread of the virus and that from Europe the strategy that is being carried out together in the Spanish State is being validated. And, in a row, he explained that, in the same way, he also did not share the performance of these antigen tests in pharmacy. But if any autonomous community intended to do so, it should submit a report, normally not, a very detailed report on how they intended to do so, a very detailed report of the protocols, a very detailed report of the management of the evidence, a very detailed report of the information generated, which the ministry would study thoroughly. That's what the minister said in the Interterritorial Commission. Furthermore, I will tell you that the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Sanitary Products, in its information note of 20 November, on the adoption of a recommendation by the European Commission for the use of rapid antigen tests in the European Union, states that rapid antigen tests must be carried out by medical and laboratory personnel trained to carry out sampling, testing, interpretation of results and subsequent communication to health authorities. To this end, the manufacturer's instructions for use must be followed strictly and carried out within 5 days of the onset of symptoms or 7 days after exposure to a confirmed case of COVID-19. Therefore, currently, the proceedings in Euskadi do not comply with the legal requirements in force. If you are no longer referring to clinical analysis, but simply to the collection of tests, you have to enter into other considerations about necessary physical spaces, specific training of professionals, personal protective equipment and biosecurity of all people living in such spaces. With regard to the training of pharmaceutical personnel, it is not the same to collect a saliva test as to take a sample of nasopharyngeal mucosa using a hysop. To this day, this is a nursing technique. Training can be trained almost anyone in the performance of almost any activity. But that's not the point. We are talking about a technique that people with the right qualifications have to do. The locals. There may be many pharmacies that have facilities that allow for safe and confidential testing. But surely not at all. The information. It is crucial that the information of the persons tested and, above all, those who result in positive results for the presence of COVID, arrive in time and form to the tracking and tracking equipment of the information, in addition to meeting all the requirements related to the privacy of the data. Finally, the use of antigen tests. The initiative on the involvement of pharmacies in the detection of the virus does not seem to be linked to the conduct of PCR tests, but to rapid antigen detection tests, because the latter require a protocol for the sending of tests to the laboratory, processing and management of the information that Osakidetza has perfectly channeled. The initiative on the participation of pharmacies seems to be related to rapid testing, which allows for a response in a few minutes. And I want to talk about that test. The initial indication of antigen testing is for people who have symptoms compatible with COVID, which is proving very useful in emergency services and primary care, to quickly differentiate people who have developed the disease from other conditions with similar symptoms. The detection of asymptomatic cases has also been shown to be effective in those people who have a very close relationship with those who have given positive and who, despite having no symptoms, have a large viral load, usually members of the same family unit. This is the use we are giving it in Euskadi, the one we understand most appropriate. For the rest, PCR. To put it graphically: PCR tests are like putting on the population a very dense network of tightly closed mesh to detect positive cases. We do it every day, either about people who have been contacted by others who have given positive or about municipalities that have high incidence rates. The result is to identify positives and avoid confinement that can spread to other people. Antigen tests are, on the contrary, a network with a much larger mesh. Using them massively can also detect asymptomatic people with high viral load and prevent them from infecting others. Everything that is detected is important, but it must be borne in mind that there are positives that are not detected with such tests. At present we have a very important network of trackers and trackers, close to 700 people, who have come to facilitate the conduct of more than 17,000 tests in one day. At the moment it is not necessary to arrive at such figures, for two reasons. First, because the number of positives, fortunately, is getting smaller and, consequently, the number of contacts to be tracked is also decreasing. And secondly, because, since LABI adopted the existing measures to contain activity and mobility in the Basque Country, the number of close contacts of those who have given positive results is also lower. In summary, for the Department of Health, pharmacies are a crucial agent in policies to promote the health of citizens. Collaboration with them is very close and essential to give the best service to citizens. And our will is to continue to improve that relationship that is already good. That, no doubt. But there are many issues that need to be resolved before pharmacies can actively participate in the conduct of COVID-19 screening tests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u111	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor, for your words, for your explanations regarding this inquiry. Well, there's an open door, as far as I can see. There are many issues to be resolved before we take the step. But the fundamental thing is that the pharmacies and the Spanish Society of Community Family Pharmacy, their associates, their members and professional colleges know perfectly well that they can do so and they know perfectly well that they can solve those issues that you are talking about; I suppose they will be the same ones the minister spoke about when he referred to the detailed plan that they have to present. That's why I've read you the ten points, answering that question, whether you're trained or whether you can be trained. Of course he's trained. I listen to the minister, Mrs Sagardui, when I see what the media is transferring to society. I am not a member of the Interterritorial Council, nor have I been in its meetings. But I have heard it and seen it in the media and by references that have come to us. I have to be guided by that. I listen to the minister. I say again what I have read in some media, specialized, besides, I knew what I was talking about. He said it at a press conference. A report should be detailed. All right, absolutely agree: what type of test will be used, what personnel will be used, whether there will be COVID-not COVID circuits, as in the health network, how they will provide the data to the public health services, or whether the personnel that will perform it is in accordance with the characteristics indicated by the manufacturer. That is already being done by other countries. As I told you in those ten answers, the pharmacists have already talked about that and are able to solve it. You also said that you need training and training. Of course. And the pharmacists have already solved it. Law 44/2003 on the organisation of health professions establishes the responsibilities of pharmacists. Since May, the profession itself has been responsible for carrying out ad hoc training courses to update the knowledge of community pharmacists in immunology, rapid testing and in COVID-19. This information is based on scientific and technical procedures. I mean, the pharmacy has also taken care of catching up. Let us remember that they are sanitary, that they are university professionals who know this subject and, in addition, they intervene in many other issues of detection and analysis. We have mentioned HIV and other issues, such as cholesterol. But I want to say that they already know where to act. Finally, regarding privacy, pharmacists already know how to do other tests, they know that privacy will be assured. In some pharmacies they have had to do even HIV tests; it is quite clear that there has never been a problem in our pharmacies with the privacy of these tests. So that's also guaranteed. And I want to say, in conclusion, that, of course, many questions are asked about this situation. Why is it necessary for the community pharmacy to be added to health centres in the detection of coronavirus? Well, those questions are asked by some. What types of patients can help detect community pharmacies that are not susceptible to going to health centres? That's very important too. Can community pharmacists carry out such tests? It has already been shown that they can do so. Are community pharmacies safe spaces? It must be guaranteed, there are measures to do so. What reliability does this kind of evidence have? Will not wrong information be generated? It has already been seen that no, because they are perfectly trained and trained, or they may be, to do so. How would coordination with health centres and the epidemiological network be? It is clear that if someone is well coordinated and collaborative, they are the pharmacists and the community pharmacists with the public network. And that has also been exemplary in the conventions. Matters as important as the financing of this service should be are easy to solve and they are also willing to do so. I mean, I think the best news would be that the door is open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u112	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer it, Mrs. Apple.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u113	President andrea. Mr. Barrio, I really, really am still surprised, because you are able to say, from the information you have, that it will be very and valid, that it is guaranteed, guaranteed, guaranteed, guaranteed, when the Ministry of Health does not say any of that. And I say he must have knowledge, because he is competent in the matter. And when you are asking for so many detailed reports it will be because what you say is guaranteed, which is on what has based your intervention, is not so clear. I'm still surprised. But I will now respond to the second part of your initiative, to the participation of pharmacies in the announced vaccination plan, to which you have now made no mention, as you have only referred to diagnostic tests. Today we know more than last Wednesday, when I was in the Health Committee to explain the evolution of the pandemic in Euskadi and to talk about the measures of all kinds that are being implemented in the fight against the virus. Then I said that there is a working group of experts on vaccination from the different autonomous communities, who are the people responsible for defining how to develop the vaccination plan against COVID in the Spanish State, once the vaccine(s) are already available to the member states of the European Union, which has centralized the purchases. As I said then, the vaccination plan went directly from the expert group to the press conference of the President of the Spanish Government. We too thought, Mr Barrio – here we will agree – that this issue would be the subject of much attention in the interterritorial council that we held yesterday, immediately after the parliamentary committee, as it is the council that must know and take a stand on the vaccination plan in which the technical staff assigned to this task are working. Well, it wasn't like that. Neither the plan submitted by the Government of the State aroused interest, nor its processing, nor its content, nor, consequently, the involvement of pharmacies in the vaccination process, nor in the sampling process. Now the focus is on the most immediate, seems to be, how we're going to celebrate Christmas. In any case, at the moment we do not know the type of vaccine that will arrive first, how many doses will arrive, what characteristics, when they will do so, and what transport, storage and administration requirements they will have. What we do know, and that is for sure, is that it will be up to us, Osakidetza, to administer the vaccines. And this is something we have experience in. We have administered more than 500,000 influenza vaccines between October and November, 50% more than the previous year, and the campaign has not yet ended. We have logistics, staff and experience, so I don't think it is necessary to use pharmacies to administer the VOCID-19 vaccine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Reformation, Rebeka Ubera Aranzeta EH Collector to the head of the Medical Department, about working out of the Basque Autonomy. " Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u115	Yes, can you hear it? Yeah. Well, good morning, Mrs. Appledui and all. Will the health department make a real effort to keep our health professionals company? To promote Osa to our health professionals? Our own health professionals are going to other state health systems, which are being preferred. Years ago, they went to Europe, but now they're going to other Spanish autonomys. We're making a terrible investment as a society. We form them there in the EHU and Osade. They even start to work at the same time as members, but it's a moment when they decide to go to another autonomy. So far they went to Europe, and now they're going to Spain. On the contrary, they come from Spain because they think that the systems and conditions of work here are good, but immediately they return to their original position. We've got a continual leak in Osa, a leak that the pandemas have increased. And if any one is tempted to use language statements or language profiles as an excuse, it is not so. I'll give you three examples right now to see what's going on. Grate, phactivative specialised, in the integrated sanitary institution of Araba. He's been working on the Araban, working on the first wave, and now he's working on Logroñon. He's making a tremendous effort to get his attentions out of the intenses of the Arababa. Clara, the nurse from Sevilla thought he'd find better conditions in Osaparte. But he's back in Andalucia. Remember the nurses from Andalucia who interviewed Loiun? These nurses came to the ESI of the Bilbo Union, and the contract was granted to them in January. The workers here, the ones who were working here, only offered a contract for months, two months, or summers, even though they had a language profile. Three different examples, showing the tip of the iceberg, but if you ask everyone, do you know what they say? Stability, stability, stability, better conditions of work, other contracts, to build their life project. So, Mrs. Coodui, what are you gonna do for that?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u117	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. In the words of the "EH" gathered together, the professionals in the health world that decide to work out of the Basques are getting more and more. In the middle of the pandemy, even in the last few months, so many professionals in the health world have decided to begin working in close communities, regardless of the option of Osar. There are two affirmations: the one is that the sanitarian professionals go from Basques, and the other that there are more and more. But these assertions did not argue with facts, at least not in the justification of the question. You've even discussed rare cases in your explanations. There are several kinds of examples. And even more, you have not explained any reason for this departure. He's obviously a health service from Esscal, which, for the sake of his work conditions, receives one of the best ratings. And, after the training, like professionals who decide to get out of Basques, there are also those who want to come out of the building. I will not enter into the objective reasons of each of these people. I can tell you that Osacides, at the end of the training, provides attractive offers for these people, to make their careers advocate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u119	Miss apple, you'll have to give me the data. As you said to me, you govern, you decide, so that's your business. All the unions that have been passed through the medical committee have confirmed that this is the situation. I really care not to think of you as disturbing as our health professionals in a month to have five, six, eleven contracts, and not to offer to our health professionals a decent contract. Look, it's a long rope that we've brought in for years, a long rope you've made. And what did he bring? Not to be an attractive member. They used to go to Europe. Now, with this Spain you compare so much, we're better... Unfortunately, we're not better. And the demand is very exact from our professionals; Changing the contract model, changing the Osar management model, turning prekarity...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u121	- stability.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Always the same with you! (Response)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u123	Thank you. Look, Ostaining before the akaultative IR training period is over, he manages a job offering for professional specialists. For this purpose, a list of contractions is composed of information given by educational units. The object of all this is to offer immediate access to the new professionals who end their training, in accordance with the necessity of opposition. In that ring, the data is as follows. Here you are: This year, for instance, after the training, 280 am and 218 have registered on the list and they're working. Let us remember that many of the students have come from abroad and seek to return to their homes. The other 46 people who had prepared themselves for the members of the family were also registered to the lists. 34 of these have worked at once. Besides, to support the connection of the "mir" which will end next year, they are working on the following topics: the study of all trained workmen, the specialty, the provisional examination of the retreats, the inspection of the services, and the practice of the defense. The result of this examination is based on the denominations and their types and durations, because there are also types of exchange: the intermediate nominations, the yearly nominations... In the first degree of attention, it's due, the nominations are stable and flexible. Admissions to cover your abstinences. The same may be said of nurses, pharmacist, Rioologists, other medical workers. Finally, there's another meaningful piece of information about the nurses. From the nurses who are head 41 leaders of the COVID's network, from the 23 Euskade. Professionals move, Mrs. Uberia, in health and other parts. The conditions of work are not the only reason, but one of the many. But I'll end up with an example. These mentioned in the COVID's network browser have come and show that they have better work conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Interregation, by Ander Rodriguez Lejarza, the member of the Combats, made to the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Society Politicals, to protect, and to extend the extreme privatisation of the Social Services." Mr. Rodriguez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u125	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good afternoon, chief of the Artola generouss. In the past years, we've given numbers to the extreme privatization process of social service in the Basque System. In the strategic plan evaluation. This process has been published by social services the life policy of privatization for the last seven years. Even if this situation has often been reported, the evaluation has revealed the real dimensions of this privatization. Between 2011 and 2018 the offer of public and concerted residences has hardly changed. Very few places have been created. The supply has obviously not evolved along with the process of the progressive ageing of society. The imbalance between public supply and demand on the part of citizens has therefore been considerably accentuated. The data, counselor, are truly and absolutely terrifying, of fear. In Araba, for example, in 2011, it had a public and concerted network of 980 places. In 2018 it had 1,041. In other words, only 61 places have been opened in seven years. In Bizkaia, more of the same. Bizkaia had 5,053 seats in 2011; in 2018 it had 5,118 seats. That is, 65 new places in seven years. In Gipuzkoa, evolution has not been so bad. At that time, in 2018, the network had 342 more seats than in 2011. Many of them were opened when he ruled Euskal Herria Bildu. In other words, the public residential care network has increased by 4.5% in seven years. 0.6% per year. Instead of creating new places on the public network, as provided for in the Strategic Plan, it has relied on the economic benefits linked to the service. And what are these preparations? These are economic appurtenances, created within the sphere of the law of dominion, with a very clear purpose: only when it is impossible to procure a public or compact of care or care, in the case of services that are in the way of execution or development. The dimensions which a public service has taken with the most extreme possible privacy are founded on a political decision: economic preparation connected with service as "service projects" is instruation. All this is against the Law of Revenge, against the Law of Social Services, against the Decree of Preparation, and of the Habit of Service. A temporary economic benefit, which, by virtue of the birlibirloque, has been given a permanent character. A clear bet to interrupt the opening of new places in the public network, to give checks and to refer the elderly to private residences. The data, as I was telling you, can't be more revealing. There has been an increase from 1,157 annual cheques to 3,008 annual cheques, an increase of 160 %. Meanwhile, the public network increased its number of places by 4.5%. The contrast is frankly impressive, as to shame her, counselor, as to shame her. But in the public network of day centers evolution is even more negative. Between 2011 and 2018 the public network of day centers in Araba and Bizkaia has lost 210 places. It is no longer that there are not enough squares opened, it is that there are even fewer squares than there were in 2011. All of this is a huge business for companies. More than 210 million euros diverted in just 9 years. Of course, this has aroused the hunger and greed of large groups related to foreign investment funds specialized in geriatric management, whose presence has grown noticeably in the reality of Basque residential care. Just two news from last year. The first of these: "An investment fund buys four senior residences in Bizkaia for more than 40 million euros". Another news, also from last year: "Great geriatric groups break into Álava and already manage a third of the private places". An economic benefit that said it had become by the art of birlibirloque, in a service check. In modern pirate mythology, walking through the board was the method of execution used among them. It consisted in forcing the victim to walk on a board that stretched from one side of the boat, to, in this way, end up falling into the sea. Parallelisms are more than obvious. Families who go to the Basque Social Services System in search of care and care walk on a narrow board. The situation has often become unsustainable at home. The difficult balances maintained to date, sustained beyond reasonableness by the reactionary ethics of care, have been broken. In impossible balance, they walk on a narrow board. You, when you arrive like this, pretend to give him this: a check. You give them a check, and you throw them into the sea, into the sea of the market. A sea where we've seen sharks abound. In Matrix Reloaded Merovingius addressed Trinity, Morpheus, and Neo: "You will see, there is only one constant, one universal truth. It is the only truth, causality: action-reaction, cause and effect." Counselor, cause and effect. The extreme policy of privatization also has its effects, its serious effects. The guardians and guardians have serious consequences, and, unfortunately, very well known: the quality of care decreases, the patterns of service which produce a great dignity of industry, every idea of the public responsibility of the care, and creates an income discrimination and attention when they get attention and watch. Cause and consequence, chief physician. Cause and consequence. These are serious consequences, but these are the conditions necessary to apply the model of service. I mean, to make that pattern work, a proper ecosystem is to be created, and you've really created it. First, the public network needs to be reduced. In 2016, the public network of the centres must have been 12,467 Squares. In 2018, on the other hand, he had a square of 10.814, less than 13%. On the day's centers, on the contrary, the public network was to be at 2016 Square 3705 Squares, and in 2018 it had 2.851 Squares less than 23 percent. I mean, there's not even one of the four squares where there should be public nets at the centres of the day. Cause and consequence, chief physician. Cause and consequence. Secondly, the second condition for this model to work is to reduce the cost of service. In other words, the difference between the check-service and the cost of the service must be borne by the families. Perhaps I could ask the director of Emakunde how to reduce the cost of a service where 70% of it is represented by the cost of staff. I'm sure he explains that it's only possible to precarious the working and wage conditions of thousands of women caregivers. For this reason, they have caregivers in Álava with wages below 1,000 euros and with absolutely brutal workloads. Cause and effect, counselor. And so far the crude account of what has happened these seven years. Let us now discuss the pretensions of your assessment. First, it seeks to legalize this use of the benefit, this procedure, although it contravenes two laws and a decree, and to this end it quantifies these checks for the purposes of the coverage objectives of the Basque System of Social Services. Second, legitimize this use. Third, promote the function of service checks within the system. And fourthly, to extend its use to the care of excluded persons and persons with disabilities. In short, counselor, my question is this: do you intend to legalize, legitimize, promote and extend the most savage form of privatization that a public service can suffer?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u126	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u127	The head of the table, members of the legislature, all good days. I, Mr Rodriguez, am ashamed of some of the speeches that are being made in this Parliament. When you accuse me on several occasions, not on this one, on some of the opportunities we have had to disagree or work in different areas, to fall on my back the deaths that were occurring in the residences... Man, I'm already a little tired that I'm always moving those responsibilities that, as you well know, are not mine, because the system works, the system is of quality, and I think weak favor does you with all that series of exaggerated epithets when you qualify what's going on in Euskadi. You also have institutional experience as an outside deputy in Gipuzkoa. And you know that the evolution of the Basque Social Services System is an arduous, long and very collaborative process. As you also know, Mr Rodriguez, the process of evaluating the Strategic Plan for Social Services has not been completed, because I do not know where you have taken the information from, but, of course, this information is only available to members of the Interinstitutional Body for Social Services. And the subject of that process is that OISS, in which the three levels of Basque public administrations participate. This body, known as OISS, will close the evaluation once the Basque Council for Social Services is heard, as foreseen in the Strategic Plan. His full intervention had therefore been based on a draft that had been transferred to the members of the Inter-Agency Body for Social Services. It still has comments aside from the issues to be modified, which will be completed after detailed analysis by the institutions and also by the associations that are part of the Basque Social Services System. As you are aware of this ongoing process, I would like to highlight the institutional disloyalty involved in your inquiry in this plenary, to which your previous press conference is added. For the proper functioning of the institutions it is essential to respect the framework of work that is the responsibility of each one, and not to interfere in their procedures. And you have not respected the evaluation process in which this government is involved with the rest of the institutions and entities that are part of the Basque Social Services System. And it's that you're a Basque MP, but a member of the OISS. And it's not just about what we do, Mr. Rodriguez. This is, above all, how we do it. In democracy, forms are very important. Forms are key and defining. In democracy, institutional respect and parliamentary courtesy are basic ingredients for political legitimacy. Sensibility for the way we do things should be common, in particular, among the people we work in the field of social policies with and for people. What I'm asking you, please, is not sensitivity, but institutional loyalty. There has been an unfulfilled obligation in the OISS, Mr Rodriguez. But let me talk about that disloyalty within the OISS itself. The OISS is doing its job right now. It is an organ in which you have participated and whose dynamics you know perfectly well. A body and work that, like that of the Basque Council of Social Services, deserve a respect that you seem not to show by interfering with your current parliamentary responsibility in an unfinished process. You use tortically an internal draft of the future evaluation report of the first Strategic Social Services Plan of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. A draft that has not yet been submitted for consideration by the ISO before it is forwarded to the Basque Council for Social Services. A draft that the OISS itself has not yet had the opportunity to evaluate for the first time and jointly, but which will include a multitude of contributions from the different institutions, both outside and municipal. I am not going to be able to make any progress here today on the content of the evolution of the I Strategic Plan. And in any case, do you know that you are transferring the content of a journalistic leak, or do you have that document? For my part, I assure you that I will ask you to appear before this House to give details of the assessment once closed, to share your analysis and your debate. I assure you that I will be pleased to present the II Strategic Plan to you as well, but, of course, when it is drawn up, not today, because it does not play today, Mr Rodriguez. When the evaluation process is complete, I will ask you to appear before this House to present the evaluation of the first plan, as well as to advance the contents of the II Strategic Social Service Plan and to welcome your contributions and criticism, Mr Rodriguez. In the meantime, I will keep due respect for the work done by the institution I represent, together with the other Basque public administrations and the various social actors that we are members of the Basque Council of Social Services. However, I do not want to avoid the main issue that you raise in your initiative regarding the protection, impulse and expansion of the extreme privatization of the Basque Social Services System, as you define it. You seem to work on the basis of extreme headlines, I told you at first. He's described it as a terror today. The Government is far from maintaining a position of privatization or outsourcing of social services, and less extreme. As I have told you, I am not going to go in to rebut any data that you extract from a leaking of a first partial draft of an ongoing interinstitutional work. But I will point out to you two related substantive issues. Firstly, the regulatory consolidation of the services that private initiative organisations and, in particular, the private social initiative, that is, the organisations of the third social sector of Euskadi as public responsibility services, constitute a process of publication and internationalization of services. More, if any, within the framework of a law establishing a comprehensive catalogue of services and services; more, if any, within the framework of a law recognizing access to them as a subjective right, a process opposed to the privatization or outsourcing of public liability services. As I pointed out in my appearance, we defend and promote this mixed model of public responsibility and cooperation with private initiative, with the prevalence of the private social initiative for the provision of the services and services of the Basque System of Social Services. And we will do so with all the specifications laid down in the social services law itself, as it cannot be otherwise, because it is a mandate of this House itself, a mandate that is also fully consistent with the model of society and the principles and values we defend. Secondly, the economic provision linked to the service, both in our Social Services Act and in the Promotion of Personal Autonomy and Care for Persons in a Unit Situation, even if it is called a service check, is not conceived as such. The philosophy of the service check is to empower the user, so that it is the user who decides how to respond to that need. The aim is to provide financial aid to enable it to contract a service or a service on the market, the market being an alternative to the development of public liability services. And in no way do the ENPs respond to this philosophy, either in the Basque Law on Social Services or in the Law on Promotion of Personal Autonomy and Care of the Unit. The ENP is envisaged in the law as a tool to consolidate public responsibility in a scenario of growing needs and subjective law. The ENPs are subject to the impossibility of temporarily guaranteeing access to the supply or service of the catalogue to which the user is entitled. Four elements must therefore be taken into account, Mr Rodriguez. To grant an ENP implies: that a right to a service or the provision of the catalogue of the Basque System of Social Services is recognized, that the economic provision is also guaranteed, that it has a temporary scope while reaching sufficient coverage and, therefore, its use is conditional on the impossibility of temporarily guaranteeing access to the Basque service of social services. It is therefore an instrument that the legislator considered necessary to deploy the Basque System of Social Services in a subjective law scenario, in the same way that the Basque System of Social Services was defined as a mixed system. This is reflected in the Social Services Act, i.e. public liability, but consisting of services, services and equipment of public and concerted private ownership.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Rodriguez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u129	Mrs. President. First of all, I want to show my joy, my joy because you are able to feel shame. You are able to feel shame, it seems that you are ashamed of my statements or speeches in this rostrum. By the way, I invite you to look at the minutes and tell me when I have literally held you responsible for the dead in the residences. I invite you to take the minutes. The only person who spoke during the debates and in a public interview of the dead in the residence was you, to subtract relevance from half a thousand dead. It was up to April, in an interview published by the Vocento group, where they asked him about whether the model had worked. Therefore, I have never held her responsible for the dead in the homes of elderly people. We have made proposals saying: "We could have avoided the spread of the virus in these residences with certain measures." And I invite you, above all, to listen to the speech that was made about the motion for a resolution presented by Euskal Herria Bildu and defended by me in this rostrum, where it said that it was a collective, collective failure. Shame must have felt for other kinds of acts. Look, let's see, here we have to make an important reflection, that is, the X-ray of what has happened over the last seven years. By the way, we could have had the 2016 X-ray, but you didn't do the mid-term evaluation, for reasons we don't know yet... It is that a structure that had to be complementary and temporary has become a model of substitution and profit extraction. And all this is happening cannot happen without a public debate. And that's what's bothering you. And it bothers you, your department and your government that there is a public debate, that Euskal Herria Bildu says: "This is indeed the data. This is the reality. We discuss where you, among others, want to lead the Basque Social Services System." We must have a public, honest, transparent and informed debate. Why does it bother you to get the information out? Why does it bother you to get the data out? Because the X-ray is very clear. A public sector, a dwindling public responsibility network in favour of a form of cheque services that you, for two years, promoted as an outlaw in Araba, aware of its very serious consequences. And that's what I'm accusing her of. Says an Arabic proverb that "you are a slave to your words and owner of your silences." In her reply she has partly owned her silences, she has not responded to what I was saying. He hasn't answered me. You intend to legitimize by evaluating what happened against the law that you yourself have remembered. You have read what role these service-related benefits have to have. Moreover, the strategic plan he has drawn out clearly states: "In any case, it is necessary to make it clear that these are two different scenarios: that, from 25 December 2016, individual economic aid should not be granted and that the places allocated for the economic provision linked to the service in 2011 should tend to become places in integrated services in the Basque System of Social Services, ordinary places, before 25 December 2016". This was the mandate of the strategic plan, in accordance with the law that you have read to us and the assumption of the economic provision linked to the service. And what has happened is just the opposite: that when an element disappears from the Interinstitutional Body of Social Services, which was Euskal Herria Bildu, then the door is opened to use these benefits contrary to the law, based on reducing the service and reducing the coverage of the public system. Because the data, as I said, is clear. In his diagnosis, he says: "What a good instrument! We will now use it to care for people at risk of exclusion and people with disabilities." It's a bet that seems extremely serious to me. It says his diagnosis: "5,665 places have been opened". That's not true. Of the 5,665 are cheques 2,746. There aren't even those squares. Fifty per cent of these places, which state their assessment that they have been created and therefore legitimise the privatisation process over the past seven years, do not even exist. And it seems to me – I am going to say this – that, in the midst of the pandemic, the elderly, through this mechanism, are not subjects of law and turn them into consumers – speaking of qualifications – it seems to me: obscene, indecent, impudent, dishonest, immoral, profane, shameless, concupiscent, dirty... Do you want me to go on with more synonyms?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u130	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u131	Thank you, ma'am. I used to say it at first, each one portrays himself as he wants and owns his words. You can use all the epithets you want to define my work, that of this Government. And I repeat that I am not going to talk about the evaluation, because this evaluation to which you referred is a draft. And here it appears: Evaluation of the I Strategic Plan of Social Services, draft for the OISS prior to its transfer to the Basque Council of Social Services. 13 November 2020." On the day that this evaluation is approved, that it has all the contributions that are made on that social services council and that it appears and is already approved definitively in the Interinstitutional Body for Social Services, I will ask this House for my voluntary appearance to account for all those issues that you have been reporting in a biased and interested way in order to somehow discredit the Basque Social Services System. Our assessment is going to be critical, of course. And here's the data. No, I don't want to hide any data; I have no desire to hide any data. What we have always said is that we want a transparent assessment to really know what we are in and, when we do not have things well done, to carry out those initiatives to further improve. Our assessment will be constructive, but it will also be critical. But you see it only on the negative side, and with that fierce criticism that you have brought into this intervention. Because we conceived evaluation as an objective to improve our system. This House, when it defined the Basque architecture of social services, did so as an integrated system of services, services and equipment of public and private ownership, private-concerted. This Parliament once again considered that the best way to promote and provide and guarantee the right to benefits within the autonomous community was for the system to be a mixed system. And this appears in the law, whether you like it or not. And if you want to change the model, what you will have to do is change that law. But, in order to amend that law, you will have to have more than enough in this House. You participated in the development of the first plan. The plan included ENPs, individual grants, as places to define the starting situation and make projections for 2016. I'm not telling you anything you didn't know. You and I were outlaws, and we know perfectly well what the portfolio, the map, and the strategic plan are all about. In 2011 there were PEVS. And this year there is also PEVS. Its use is foreseen and assessed in the law. It is also envisaged, as I say, in the strategic plan. It is not by chance, but because this legislature considered this to be a necessary instrument to be able to respond to growing needs in a subjective law scenario. Because the needs were growing, and we didn't have all the services prepared to offer them. So what we did was use these benefits to fulfill that subjective right that people had. Yes, sir... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u132	Mr. Rodriguez, shut up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u133	Mr Rodriguez, I have the floor. I respected him. I really want to have a quiet debate with you. And I want to have agreements – if I can – with you, but it seems that it is not possible. With other members of your group I always agree, but with you I cannot, Mr Rodriguez. So, please, listen to me, if we have that common goal of improving social services in Euskadi... Yeah, just you. I don't have them; I'm the bad guy in the movie. We're always the bad guys. Well, I don't think so, Mr. Rodriguez. I think you also have to do that pre-review. Well, his model and mine isn't the same, we already know that. But we have to reach an agreement if we want to keep moving forward. You again fall into a sterile and negative dialectic, which for several reasons, moreover, I do not share. Not everything is legally private. The important thing is not to look at the public-private legal nature, but the really important thing is to look at the purpose. And this country would not be what it is today, if we had not been able to overcome that barren debate between what is public and what is private. Euskadi is today what it is because of the capital role played by the social initiative, and also because of its rich social capital. And if everything had been reduced to that pernicious public-private dialectic, there wouldn't be a lot of resources in this country, no cooperatives, no Ikastolas. We wouldn't have a third sector...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask you, Martíni together, the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU team, made of equality, justice, and the head physician of the Society, concerning the tram that is building CAF company at Jerusalem." Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u135	Yeah. Mrs Artolazabal, as head of human rights for the Basque Government, how do you appreciate the project being carried out by the CAF company in the occupied Palestinian territories?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u136	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u137	Thank you. Mr Zatón, the internationalisation of Basque companies is an indispensable element for us in the face of sustainability in a global world. Sustainability means wealth, and it also means employment. We believe that sustainability brings competitiveness to social cohesion and well-being. One of the pillars of the economic policy of the Basque administrations and of this Government has been, and is, to strongly support the policy of internationalization of the Basque business fabric. The company to which you refer in the question is one of the main companies in our country. CAF is a tractor company, whose activity has a multiplier effect in terms of wealth and employment in companies and agents in its environment. It is a company that has managed to be a reference in the world in a business area as strategic as that of sustainable transport, and the Basque Administration has agreed to participate in the company's shareholdership with the aim of ensuring its root in Euskadi. As a result of the excellence of its business activity, CAF has been awarded tenders for the construction of metro lines, trains or trams in almost 30 countries. Let me list this list of countries where CAF develops its projects: Finland, Sweden, Estonia, Norway, Germany, Netherlands, Ireland, Belgium, Portugal, Italy, Algeria, Tunisia, China, Taiwan, India, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, United States, Mexico, Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Chile, Argentina, Brazil and Australia. Israel is a country that is added to this long list, and is also a country in which CAF has been awarded this tender. I stress once again the commitment of the Government to the internationalization of our companies in general, and of the reference tractors in particular. I must remind you that the Basque Government does not have to judge the international contracts of Basque companies unless they conduct proceedings contrary to international law. And it is also clear that the Basque Government is committed to the defence of human rights and our support and solidarity with the Palestinian people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u139	Thank you. I expected some kind of answer that had not already given me Arantza Tapia or Pedro Azpiazu in the questions I asked you. The CAF project he won is a project that seems to be a simple tram, but that all he does is connect illegal colonies occupied by the Zionist entity of the State of Israel. And, in addition, CAF, not content only with doing this project, goes and starts now to sell 120 buses to another Israeli company, which is precisely dedicated to transporting settlers between its colonies, as I said, illegally occupied. I asked Tapia, I asked Mr Azpiazu to see if they were worried about what they were saying, for example, Amnesty International, the Embassy of Palestine and the United Nations. And the answer is that it had no jurisdiction whatsoever, that this project is non-discriminatory and that collaborating with the occupation – this is my conclusion – is legal and, according to what you have just said, is also legal according to the Basque Government. The problem, far from having competence, is not having an opinion, not being coherent. Not be consistent with commitment 105 of your government program. Not to speak with CAF is to be a partaker of the work, it is to be a partaker, therefore, of the occupation that it is carrying out and at the service of which this work is done. In addition, the Basque Government has 1.27% of the shares of CAF, supposedly, to maintain roots, but in all the answers of Mrs Tapia, Mr Azpiazu and in which she has just given me, those shares are absolutely useless – it is written – because they are not even useful for talking to the company. Mrs Artolazabal, what is the historical purpose of funding UNRWA to work with the displaced precisely for this type of work? Because this tram, if you don't know – I can give it to you later – is displacing thousands of Palestinians and Palestinians from their homes, in addition, to make urban speculation in a territory that is theirs. What is the point of funding UNRWA if we then collaborate with those who are occupying its territory? What is the point of financing Palestinian NGOs with EUR 16 million since 2016 if we then collaborate with those who are developing these human rights violations? By action or omission. This Government does not, of course, have the responsibility for what is happening in Israel, but it does have the responsibility not to collaborate with any action that perpetuates human rights violations. I do not say that, according to a report by the United Nations itself, it is violating article 49 of the Fourth Geneva Convention, which says that "the occupying power cannot bring or transfer people to the occupied territory", and that is what it is doing. Or United Nations Security Council resolution 23/34, which states that the present borders and the wall of that wall are not legally valid and constitute a flagrant violation of international law. Or they go against the International Court of Justice, which declares that states –Euskadi is part of a state – have an obligation not to recognize or collaborate with the resulting illegal situation and that it has an obligation not to provide assistance or assistance for the maintenance of the created situation. The European Union itself says that occupations are illegal and an obstacle to peace. In addition, the United Nations Human Rights Council met in January and there was a request. His partner company Saphir is already on that blacklist of companies of that Human Rights Council, of the list of companies that collaborate with the Israeli occupation. CAF has enough tickets bought to get into that list. We are also defending CAF and maintaining CAF's employment, and we have been telling you for more than a year and a half that you are getting into tremendous trouble. That's why, Mrs. Artola generous, let's not be accomplices to the occupation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u140	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u141	Sí, thank you. Mr. Zatón, Israel is a state recognized by the international community. Of the 193 member countries of the United Nations, 163 recognize it. So, nine out of ten. Neither the United Nations nor the European Union has imposed any sanctions on the State of Israel, and there is no impediment either in the international or European dimension to the performance of contractual activities by European companies in Israel. No convention, nor international law itself, prohibits the construction of infrastructure such as the one in question, aimed at the provision of a non-discriminatory public transport service. The president of the Basque company himself has argued that, as is the usual rule, the Jerusalem tram project was also subject to prior analysis of legality and ethics. The analysis has confirmed compliance with the necessary standards and is therefore not an illegal activity as you claim. With regard to the reference to the Palestinian people, do not doubt our commitment, and to show a button. You said it, 16 million euros; last year, 1,300,000 euros. He knows that from the Basque Government we will continue to support the Palestinian people. If you want CAF not to make the train, talk to the CAF people and their workers, and ask them to see what they think. No more. I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The twenty-first theme in the subject list: "To ask the question, by David Soso Rodrigues, which was made to the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Society of the Society of Podemos-IU, concerning the accusation of the Network at Irungo, and of certain expressions made by the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Society. " Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u143	Mrs. Artolazabal, a few weeks ago Irungo Harrera Sarea, Irun's host network reported that a variable number of people had stayed on the street, without being able to make use of the resources enabled for these people in Irun. You made public statements regarding the possibility of these people's access to these resources, basically stating that they did not meet the access requirements, and that this host network, Irungo Harrera Sarea, had incited, in text, "the use of these resources knowing that these people did not meet the necessary requirements". I would like you to make an assessment of how you have been able to put these words to the volunteers who devote their time and effort to guiding migrants in transit to the resources available in Irun. And, in turn, I would also like you to make an assessment of the resources that the Basque Government has in Irun, in relation to the dramatic situation of migrants in transit.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u144	Thank you, Mr. Soto. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u145	Thank you, ma'am. I would also like you to ask the people of the Red Cross who are in Irun's appeal what do you think when they put people there without knowing and without having the rights, well, rights I don't know, without meeting the criteria that are set when they are welcomed into those resources. You know that responsibilities over borders, aliens and immigration are the exclusive competence of the Executive to which your party is a party. Allow me to elaborate on the complementary role that Basque institutions have taken on in solidarity to help migrants in transit. In addition, he knows the will and the offer we have made to welcome those people who are also in the Canary Islands in a very complicated situation. I therefore believe that calling into question the solidarity and commitment of the Basque Government with the people who are experiencing it the worst is not the truth. We are very clear that the phenomenon of migration is a structural phenomenon and that we therefore need to provide a comprehensive solution, and we need to integrate and know how to integrate those migratory flows and that cultural diversity. Since the appeal was opened in Irun, in 2018, nearly 10,000 people have gone through that appeal. 21,271 in Euskadi. On numerous occasions, we have made exceptions in access criteria so as not to leave particularly vulnerable people on the street. When borders have been closed, when mobility has been limited, we have always been attentive to the answers that were needed at every moment. We created in the summer of 2018 a contingency plan that we have adapted to the pandemic situation. When situations have allowed it, we have made those criteria more flexible. This mechanism is not intended for asylum-seekers or persons who have initiated proceedings for an application for international protection. Nor to people who have been living in Euskadi for years. Depending on their characteristics, these migrants have other resources at their disposal. For our part, we will maintain our involvement and the actions already implemented by the hands of social entities in the comprehensive care of the different types of migrants.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u147	Yeah. Well, I take it from your words that, of course, you have no desire to acknowledge your statements in relation to the work done by the volunteers and volunteers of the host network. It speaks of incentives in relation to non-compliance with access requirements to resources that do not make their access more flexible. This means those people were sleeping on the street. Women, who were still on the streets during the same days, were arrested by the National Police and did not have the opportunity to access the resources available in Irun, because there are no ways to redirect them or derive them from existing resources in Irun, but have to do so by the members of the host network themselves. There are traces of color currently in the city enabled by the host network to guide migrants in transit to the resources enabled in the city of Irun. If these color footprints, as well as the volunteers themselves, did not exist, migrants in transit would hardly know about the existence of these transitional resources. It is worrying that, in the face of a situation of border closure in a pandemic and with the obvious problems of mobility existing, with the requests made not only by the host network, but also by the Irun City Council itself, regarding the flexibility of the requirements in access to these resources, the Basque Government does not make them more flexible, although it says that in specific cases they have done so. Because yes, in specific cases, probably, the Red Cross has done so, once these situations have been derived from it and they have been found with these at the gates of the relevant enclosures. In any case, the situation of migrants in transit in Irun is shameful, because there are even hot returns at the border, with videos and photographs by the French Police, discriminatoryly detaining migrants in transit and returning them, thus making hot returns at the border. And there have been, in this regard, no forceful statements and complaints by the Basque Government, which is why it represents a lack of humanity for these people. On the other hand, we believe that there is a need for a reception system, a reception system for people who come to Euskadi, who live in a vulnerable situation and who need to be welcomed. On the other hand, in relation to the volunteers and volunteers of the host network, they have made a request to be able to meet with you and your team, to assess the problematic situation in Irun and the role and work that they and they do. I ask you, please, to extend your hand and to meet with them and with them to assess the situation. And not only does responsibility derive from discussions with the Red Cross, but it does indeed do a great deal of work in Irun.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u148	Thank you, Mr. Soto. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u149	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Of course, my hand has always been stretched out to work with everyone who has had projects to be able to meet the needs of any group, including migrants. Red Cross is the NGO that works with the Ministry of Migration in the care of migrants in transit and, therefore, it is with them that we have the relationship. Of course we agree on a Basque reception system. That's what we're already working on. There is an inter-agency plan in which the different institutions, agencies and associations work to accommodate and provide services to those people who need it according to their situation: asylum seekers, people in transit or people who already want to integrate into our society. What is happening is that we cannot be put before Irun de Cruz Roja's appeal people who know perfectly well that this remedy is not intended for them. Indeed, we have made many derivations of groups of migrants who were in a vulnerable situation. There is already that protocol and that established circuit. And I think that little favor makes us have to attend situations that are sometimes used in an inappropriate way in the media to try to discredit the work of the institutions. I really believe that if Irun's association wants to work with me, it wants to dispose of our...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-27.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. [[Berber]] As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-eight.
