ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the whole meeting. Before we start, I want you to know that because of the COVID, that 33 congressmen have already adopted the vote. First point in theme list: "The examination of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, on the compatibility of Ana Ruiz de Alegria Maus. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to speak for the judgment? Does he want to argue? No. That's all we're going to vote for. Except the members of the legislative society which relates to the Constitution, we may vote for the rest of the legislatures. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 40; the votes given, 73; the supporters 73; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 0; 0; white; 0; 0,0,0,0; 0,0,0; 0,0,0,0; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u1	The judgment, therefore, is unanimously approved. Second point on the subject list: "The Bill of Confederation of the Confederation Committee of Inadequacy, made by Mr. Andon de la Torre to determine whether it is selectable to be the principal director of the national institution of the Basque Radio. The discussion and final decision of the Constitution, and, if so, to appoint the principal director of that institution. Do any members of the board want to vote for the judgment? Does any team want to speak for or against judgment? Just... Yeah? Then it's time, then, if you want it on team shift. That's all we're going to vote for. So we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the companies are 42; the given votes are 75; the supporters 75; the opponents 75; the opponents are 0,0,0; white; 0,0,0,0,0; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u2	So he's unanimous. Next, having approved the judgment, we proceed to the procedure of naming the principal director of the Euskal Radio as Public Council. We'll open a turn to receive parlament groups following article 234.6 of the Chamber Ruler. What team wants to talk? PP-Ciudadans, EH Collector, and Podemos together, and Martha. Except Socialists, everyone else does. Ah, well, Mian, I didn't see you. Okay. There's five minutes. So we'll start from the small to the big one: Myst, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u3	Good morning. We must justify the population, the Basques, why, with which it is falling, we have the most expensive television per inhabitant of Spain. Some will say that it looks more or less, that the hearing is larger or smaller, but given today's plenary issue, I will not go on quantitative but qualitative issues. The truth is that EITB has all the tools to be a reference in the world of the media, and yet the situation, unfortunately, is not so. The level of political control, a fierce exercise in the management of information, a circumstance that makes the founding principles of television, in which my teachers insisted so much during the career of Journalism (objectivity, truthfulness and impartiality), are an ornamental addition that nothing regulates, that nothing is worth. In Vox we believe that on a television it should be an administration that falls on independent professionals, who can take up the position in relation to their merits and their ability, in order that the programming does not adhere to the partisan interests of every moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u4	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Representative of PP-Ciudados. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Here, also from the seat. Our position on the performance of those who, so far, have been the leaders and those responsible for public television, the EITB, is a critical position. We do not hide it and, moreover, we want to manifest it because it is so. It's a very critical position, because we believe... In addition, we will also have an inquiry on this to the Councillor of Culture, as the ultimate responsible, ultimately, of the ETB, while it is attached to its department, despite the fact that the ETB enjoys sufficient autonomy, recognized by law. But we think that another ETB is possible. We believe that an ETB in which there really is a will to constitute a television of all, for all, that respects pluralism, not only plurality, but also pluralism, is possible. On this, as I say, we will expand at another time. What is now being discussed here is the appointment of the new director general of the public body, and the two groups that support the Government have already reached an agreement and have put forward a candidate that the rest of the groups, especially ours, have heard from the press. They have not consulted us; there has also not been a process of prior selection, with light and tachographs, which is what we defend for this type of institution, particularly for something as sensitive as Basque public television. On the other hand, there is a non-legislative proposal in this Parliament, which has yet to be discussed, in which, moreover, the need for these types of appointments to be made by public tender was to be discussed, which is what we are also defending and we are going to defend. We, therefore, have a critical position on form. As far as the substance is concerned, there is nothing personal about the candidate that the two groups have chosen, but we do have a very critical position. And that's why we're going to vote against it. We believe that this must be done through an open public competition, with the maximum guarantees, with light and stenographers, and that the ETB is managed not only by a professional in the field, but above all by an expert person, with the maximum guarantees of independence, the maximum guarantees of independence. I have nothing, we have nothing against Mr Aldekoa, but, man, independence from the two groups, or from the party, above all, in this dominant case in the coalition of government, man, we believe that, obviously, it is not so. That is why our vote is going to be against. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u6	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, representative of the Podemos-IU team. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u7	Bai, thank you. Well, a paper for the comprehensive reform of EITB was already in the last parliamentary term, and it is true that the opinion resulting from that paper was excessively generalistic, but in any case its conclusions have not materialised at all. We say no to this appointment, but cautioning that we have no mood to question the capabilities and merits of Mr Aldekoa, who is, in the end, being proposed. What we are questioning is the procedure that is intended to be used for such an appointment. We believe that there is nothing at present to make a decision in the Basque Parliament about the suitability of this director of EITB, because there is no proposal, no project, no memory of what he intends to do and who will accompany him in the management of this public body in the coming years. We believe that EITB suffers from an excess of politicization, but this is not something we say just ourselves and ourselves. The last sociometer, which addressed the issue of politicization of the EITB or whether or not it is a party entity, addressed it both from the perspective of the workers themselves and of the citizens themselves, who valued it in this way: an entity that leaned more towards partyism. We believe that it is necessary to establish a mechanism for the election of the director of EITB, which is by competition and is accompanied by different projects for the reform of the EITB, something that will have to be addressed in the coming years. And we also believe that the director of EITB should appear as soon as possible, as we are not going to have any options here to know the project he is proposing, before the EITB Control Commission, and to present what he intends to do in the coming years. I say, and I repeat again, we do not know the strategic project of the director of EITB, who, today, or at this time, will have to decide whether or not he is the future director. We do not know what their policy will be on transparency in the awarding of programmes by producers; we do not know whether it will renew the EITB contract-programme, with what approaches it will make this renewal; we do not know what kind of relations it will maintain with the union representation of the entity, which, to date, has, of course, been very harmful that policy of social dialogue with the workers and workers of the entity. Therefore, our position at the moment is to vote against the appointment, in accordance with the procedure that has been followed. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u8	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Galástegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u9	Thank you, President. Egun where you're going. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Me too from the seat, if I may. Well, from the Socialist Group, as it cannot be otherwise, we reaffirm our commitment to the founding principles of EITB, which are reflected, in particular, in article 3 of the Act itself, and, in particular, with objectivity, veracity and impartiality; respect for the principle of equality, political, social, cultural and linguistic pluralism; respect for the defence and promotion of the typical values of coexistence recognized in the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy; respect for all rights recognized in the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy; respect for honour, in particular the right to privacy and to self-image; we defend the protection and promotion of youth and children, and the promotion of Basque culture and language. We therefore regard our television as an essential public service and, in this regard, as also expressed in the preamble to the law, we continue to share its consideration as a key instrument for the information and political participation of Basque citizens, as well as a fundamental means of cooperation with our own educational system, and of promoting and disseminating Basque culture, always bearing in mind the impetus and development of Basque culture. In this sense, to the extent that we remain committed to all these guiding principles, we believe that today it is appropriate to give a vote of confidence to the new direction and, therefore, that is the reason for the Socialist Parliamentary Group's favourable vote. As for Mr Aldekoa – very briefly; do not be frightened, ladies and gentlemen, that I am going to finish quickly – it is appropriate to say that, in our opinion, it bears witness to a management profile with experience in public entities and, therefore, it seems that it is appropriate to address the outstanding challenges of the entity, such as progress in digitisation and, also, to move forward in its modernisation and adaptation to a changing reality in the media, fundamentally influenced by the penetration of social networks. We also understand that he is a communications professional, who has worked both on radio and on television, so that he knows the sector well. It also attests to a team management, so we understand that it takes experience to manage templates and organize work. And, along its path – this is undeniable, ladies and gentlemen – it has demonstrated an open and conciliatory, and therefore dialogueable, talent. This allows us to assume that it will facilitate the relationship with the staff and also with this Parliament and with all the parliamentary groups. Finally, in fact, it will be responsible for realising and implementing that reform in which we are working in Parliament in recent years. The reform of EITB is a wish of all, but we cannot confuse here terms and debates, if anyone can think of going that way. What we are doing now is choosing a Director-General, and this is an instrumental issue, and we are doing so in compliance with the current regulatory framework, which establishes absolute majority as necessary by this Parliament. Another thing is that in the future, and I hope it will be near, we will make the reform that we leave pending with the completion of all the work of the paper and establish a new qualified majority to choose successors of the entity or other designation mechanism. The new rule that we will be working on in this legislature can establish this. It is the new director who will take the lead of the entity and, from this moment on, will have to work among its functions in accordance with our government agreement, specifically in the agreement signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party; to advance in these outstanding challenges to consolidate an audiovisual public service, modern and adapted to the new needs. It is an important challenge that is presented to you from now on, so we wish you well in the exercise of your responsibility. I'm sure it's for the benefit of all Basque citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. EHGG rep. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u11	Thank you, Madam President. And good morning to all and everyone. In this legislature, at least until now, I think there has been sufficiently extensive agreement with the need of EIB to reform, which is why the power was created, and we have been working on it for the last few years. For the example of EITB's present day is exhausted, and it has to be adapted to new seasons in many ways, even in the direction of government. That's why we propose another standard to govern the public media. It is well known that we need a large harmony between the groups, because the law must change, and this time there was no time for it. That is why we proposed another proposal as an emergency proposal with a proposal for transition. In other words, we propose that the new director of EIB should be chosen by public competition, as in several other European public media, so that there should be more guarantees. The table, on the other hand, does not think that it is of the nature of the thing, and thus it eludes the doing of the debate. Now, we'll just have to stick to vote. But our question is, what is it afraid of choosing the EIB director in public competition? If the two parties in the government think their candidate is the best, why not make the contest victorious in a clean and transparent manner, then with other possible candidates? Why not? That's our question. And looking for answers, well, what's the problem or what's going to be, we've examined this candidate, the only candidate there is, Mr. Andoni de la Torre, who's already on the other side of the world, not Andobobureno, which will soon be the new director of EIB. We have looked at the conditions in which other public contests are considered. First, and the most fundamental, the degree of formation: it's not high-ranking at Andoni's, it's only a year's school in a Bilbo academy. Secondly, what experience does it contain in the visible and, strictly speaking, EIBn? Well, at the beginning of his career, it was the urical corsponse of the Araguaia, I believe, and Ladius for the SER network, and the head of the news in Canalca, which no longer exists. But what do radio systems have to do with or do they have to do with EIB today? Thirdly, that he has fulfilled the supreme management functions. That's right, he did it: The Basque Director of the Palace has been close to the Mayor of Bilbo for 15 years, the mayor of the Mayor of Mayor of the Mayor of Mayor. During this interval of time, however, according to a report from the Basque Agency of the competition, the mayor gave him millions and a half euro contracts, not a public contest, but a Metro Police Foundation. Fourthly, he's got a project for EIB. Well, at least we don't know him. He didn't run anywhere. We don't know what his intentions are, what he's going to do for EIB. Fifthly, language tests, whether he can keep it. That's an incognite, we don't know. Here, at least, it's not in his cell that he introduced himself to the legislature. At least he's not a Basque type. On his Twitter account, in a year, we only found a "a lot" and two "luckes." And the sixth and the last is the new director independent of the government? Klaro, how do you measure that? And the question is: Could he be independent of the person who has been in charge of political nominations? Could he be independent, the member of the EAJ who has been the president's advisor? Is the new director in the community or in the government? In the pollings made by the EIB workers, three of four said that the news was favorable to the government, and instead of finishing it, you put the fox into the henhouse. You've used most of them to choose the candidate you wanted. It's too tight, but in EIB's whole history, he'll be the director who'll have the most votes against him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Eubertarians. Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, good morning to all of you. Look, when they told me we'd have a little argument before the vote today, I thought we'd have plenty of time. I thought I'd come here, following logic, the one on the side... [[Berber]] ... On the other hand, to speak well of his master's career, to value his successful surgeon, and, above all, to explain to you why we think he's the best person to be the general director of EIB. To follow logic, at the same time, you would come here to explain your doubts, but to tell them that you must wait to see, examine, and give your critical opinion. Critical or not. That's why there's a committee that can control EIB on this staff. So I think the five minutes will be short. Look, I think you're making a mistake, let me tell you to make a mistake. Criticize...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u14	Sorry, it's not because we didn't vote, it's the teams' turn. Or didn't you hear it when I read it? It's not a vote, we haven't voted yet. And, according to the article, teams turn, five minutes' shift. So... Clear? Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u15	I think they're making a mistake. Criticizing the appointment of a person before even knowing the results of their management is a strategic mistake. And it is a strategic mistake because you are losing all credibility for future mistakes that can come. I don't know if they'll come, but they could. You, when you criticize him, you're putting it on me... [[Berber]] ... They're making it so easy for me to come here and say, "It's just, you were criticizing him before, even before he was appointed." Therefore, it is a credibility error. Mr Soto, you have spoken of an "excess of politicization". I'm surprised, I'm really surprised that you're talking about an "excess of politicization," because, look, I'm going to read the... I didn't have Podemos for a particularly scrupulous party with the management of the public media, and I'm going to read you a few statements from a person, see if you know her: "What I can't understand is that there's no difference in the South Channel between when I was ruling only the PSOE and when I was ruling the PSOE with the United Left. If the government depends on you, you have to demand a minimum of hours. That's worth more, with all due respect, than the Tourism Council. For you, the Tourism Council. Give me the news; at least one of the two." Indeed, these statements are made by Mr.Paul Iglesias. And they show that the principles that Podemos respects when it comes to managing public television are not precisely based on objectivity, truthfulness, transparency, independence. On the other hand, Mrs. Aguirre, no surprise with you. You [are] angry from the first day; From the first [day] you will be angry; From the day of the day of jealousy you will be angry. The problem used to be Iturbe. Now, if Irturbe is not in love, the problem is no longer him; now the problem is an example, it's an example. Look, you've come to discuss the pattern today. We'll have a chance later to discuss this for a long time, but I have to tell you something. For four years you have had the opportunity to bring this change of pattern into the legislature; you have not brought it. Why was that? Was it cowardice, perhaps? Was that mean? Or is it just a strategy now? Porque, mientras ese procedidimento sigado el que es este Parlamento tendá que acogerse a él. "Si believers in the camp of quie, rariganlo, se debatá, los grupos tendremos numeras opiniones, y se testa à no no. And you noticed that? What you put in doubt was not his career in communication, nor his ability to manage a public society of high budgets. What you doubted was his independence. You see, in this town there were elections in the month of July. EAJ had more than 38% of the votes, the Basque Country more than 27%. So, what is this? It's a matter of statistics. The people who vote EAJ don't have the chance to run public society, do they? Is that your model? Is that your dream? Is that your dream? Only rights for some and only for others? Bukatzeko, azaldu nahiko nuke guk Aldekoa jaunaren izendapena babesten dugula tuste dugulako berak erakutsi duel komunikazioaren arloan lan-bilbide arrakastatsua. He is a dialogue person, able to speak with the rest of the groups and, in addition, has an accredited experience as a manager of public societies. And we think he's gonna do it right. That is why we are voting in favour of his appointment today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u16	Thank you, Mr. Díez. In accordance with the article 5/1982 Law, found by the Euscal Radio Department of the Country Organization, the US General Director of that organization will be elected in full majority. According to the medical reports received by the table, this vote will be made e-mail instead of cards. So we can vote. One moment, now, we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 40; the opponents 34; the abstations, 0; white, 0;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u17	So it's been accepted that Lord Andon de la Torre should be appointed the Grand Director of the Basque Radio. Third point in theme list: "The bill of law to discuss a single lecture with the law, which changes the law which the General Preservation of the 20th year of the Basque Autonomy Esproduces accepts. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." "Mingor, Mr. Subaz, has the word to introduce the bill."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u18	The President of the legislature, Mr. President, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, all good days. As in the legislation we've finished, I've come here to introduce you to the first impression of the legislation that you've just created, and to vote for you with a nod. In fact, as in four years ago, I have come here to seek permission to add the possibility of our humiliation, as at this time. To be clear, we're looking for a small but important change from the 2020 Basque budget. Having anticipated the purpose of the rule to be adopted, in the presentation of this initiative I would like to refer primarily to three aspects related to its content, function and meaning – none of which will be alien to them, since the project itself has been officially announced by myself at this headquarters last week–. First, the reasons for the Government's elaboration and approval of such a provision. Secondly, the specific content of the bill before this House. And finally, thirdly, the procedure followed for approval, that is, for its single reading directly before the plenary. As you are all well aware, the current Article 10 of Law 13/2019 of 27 December, approving the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi for the financial year 2020, sets the ceiling for the long-term indebtedness of the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. This limitation of the borrowing resource during the financial year 20 was established in accordance with the tax collection forecasts agreed for 2020 approved by the Basque Council for Public Finance at its meeting of 11 October 19 and with the agreements reached on budgetary stability between the State Administration and the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi under the terms set out in the Law on Economic Concertation, which set as the deficit target for the financial year 20 0 % of the GDP of the Autonomous Community. However, I find nothing to say that the health and economic crisis caused by the international pandemic caused by the coronavirus has resulted in increased spending on services particularly affected by the pandemic, as well as lower collection of agreed taxes. Indeed, the planned closure of tax collection agreed for 2020 approved at the Basque Public Finance Council held on 15 October results in a reduction of EUR 2,356 million compared to the original estimate. As a result, the pre-liquidation of the contributions of the outlaws has estimated a figure lower – in EUR 1,543 million – than those considered in the revenue of the budget for the financial year 20. On the other hand, under the terms of the Law on Economic Concert, the Joint Committee on Economic Concert, at its meeting on 30 September 2020, agreed to revise the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt by establishing, respectively, a percentage of 2,6 % and 16,3 % of the GDP of the Autonomous Community. In this regard, it is important to take into account that these percentages have been understood as reference rates for this financial year 2020, having suspended the tax rules for the period 20-21. The Euskadi General Budgets for the financial year 2020 should therefore be consistent with the new scenario described, so as to contribute to alleviating higher and lower expenditure and to boosting the recovery and dynamism of the Basque economy, without prejudice to maintaining the budgetary balance between approved revenue and expenditure. Therefore, considering the revision of the deficit and public debt targets agreed as reference rates for the Autonomous Community of Euskadi for the financial year 2020, the balance of the national accounts of the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community and the outstanding surplus effect to be offset at the close of 2019, which amounts to EUR 361 million and which is in fact already applied to finance the deficit for the year 20, it is possible to extend the ceiling on long-term indebtedness provided for in Article 10 of Law 13/2019 of 27 December, by which the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community for the year 2020, which currently amounts to EUR 171,640,354, and raise it to the reference amount of EUR 1,546,237,355. The application of this ceiling will also help to compensate for the foreseeable difference between the budgeted revenue – in particular non-financial revenue from the contributions of the outside bodies – and the actual evolution of the implementation of the latter. As regards the specific and detailed content of the rule, this is limited to the amendment of Article 10.1 of Law 13/2019 of 27 December, approving the Budgets for the financial year 2020, extending by EUR 1,374,597,001 the balance of the debt at the end of the financial year, in order to provide the highest possible financing capacity to the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Basquedi, in order to meet the expenditure commitments provided for in the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community of Basquedi for this financial year 2020. In short, it is ultimately a matter of trying to achieve the necessary budgetary balance for the implementation of the expenditure statements approved for the financial year 2020, so that the necessary funding for such implementation will be made from the borrowing operations, for which it is envisaged to extend the limit of the outstanding debt at the end of the financial year. This increased financing from borrowing operations, with the consequent increase in long-term debt, can be reasonably assumed given the financial and solvency situation of the Basque Autonomous Community, with a level of public debt, relative to GDP, among the lowest in the Spanish State. Similarly, this debt expansion will enable us to comply with all the spending commitments made in the budgets approved by this House on 27 December, which have been increased in many public policies due to the exceptional and unpredictable situation since last March and the even more unpredictable economic consequences. To conclude this presentation, I would like to refer to the procedure chosen by the Government for the parliamentary processing of this bill, that is, its submission to the plenary of this House through the single reading procedure. As provided for in Rule 163.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament, the Government may make use of this procedure, "without requiring the prior authorization of the House", "when circumstances of an extraordinary nature and reasons of urgent necessity" so require. Circumstances and reasons on this occasion which justify the adoption of this bill through the single reading procedure. In fact, both the object and the content of this bill justify its adoption through this parliamentary procedure, since it is given in extraordinary circumstances, it is confined to the material limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the House and, moreover, it is advised by the urgent need for their approval and entry into force before the end of the current financial year, since the formalization and disposition of the borrowing operations must be carried out before 31 December this year. In this regard, the present draft law, of a budgetary nature, is limited to amending the ceiling on indebtedness provided for in the Euskadi Autonomous Community Budgets Act for the financial year 2020. In addition, simplicity should be highlighted in its enunciation and content: it is a unique article. In addition to the nature and simplicity of the bill, there are other reasons for its single reading, such as the extraordinary circumstances which have motivated its preparation following the pre-liquidation of the contributions of the outside parliaments and the revision of the budgetary stability objectives agreed as reference rates for the Basque Autonomous Community in the final part of the budget year, as well as the urgent need to implement, as soon as possible, the borrowing operations that the rule allows. On the other hand, the bill does not affect the system of the institutions of the Autonomous Community, the legal regime of the outside institutions, the electoral regime or the rights, duties or freedoms of citizens. All these circumstances, in short, advise their handling in accordance with the rules of the full debate, subjecting the whole of the draft to a vote. I'd like to add, finally, that accepting this initiative is not looking for a piece of crude check to relieve the fact that you're going to do it. It is not a question of increasing expense without necessary and necessary control in the legislature; but it is to give the Euscal economic administration the greatest possible fund of financing power in the budget to prevent the engagements planned in the budget, in order that the main public policies may remain unimpaired. I am sure you will consider the existence and content of this law-government as intelligible and convenient. For this reason I dare ask your approbation, to oppose the duties and cares of the whole world, and the public Eucharist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u19	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Now that it has side shifts and reverse shifts, we'll start the side shift. So you'll all be on the side shift, except the Mists. The representative of the PP-Ciudados... [[Pause]] Oh, the vote. Oh, yeah. And you too, don't you? You too, it's true. Okay. Orduan, PP-Citizens, Aldeko Txandan? For explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u20	We are going to abstain, but we would like to intervene. Whatever the president thinks.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u21	But, explanation of vote in favour of the vote... Where? Because there are groups that are going to participate in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u22	In the explanation of vote, I imagine it's worth it. Don't you?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u23	Yeah, better. Okay. So together Podemos? You guys on the side shift?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u24	We will also speak in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u25	Oh, so is it. Alderdi Sozialista, Corcuera... Explanation of vote? [[Pause]] Well, yes. Then we'll have to get in the opposite shift, but we'll wait a while for Misto to come, because I told him he had time. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u26	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to move to this point a reflection that we think is important from Vox. We are at a time of real uncertainty; the second wave of the pandemic is bringing more questions to our society than certainty, more doubts than evidence. The situation is as follows: the generalised environment among Basque citizens is pessimism, fear, not knowing what they can do the day after tomorrow. Uncertainty about collective health has jumped to social concern and, now, pessimism about the economic situation is remarkable. The governments – and ours among them – have managed this pandemic in a disastrous way. Experts do not exist; they are politicians called to manage what they do not know. Scientific evidence fades: the virus was expected to come with the cold and moved forward. The masks were the solution, and now that everyone's wearing them, the bug's out. When we needed trackers, we looked the other way. When a strong central government is needed, all responsibility is removed and transferred to the autonomous communities. Today our country looks like an operetta, each Taifa sets its particular recipes, more related to the occurrence of the moment than to scientific evidence. Political incapacity is extraordinary. The number of citizens in ERTE is overwhelming. And the only occurrence on the table is the danger of the night, as if we were reading a black novel and the killer would have been reported in the first chapter. With the new alarm scenario we are going to boost a key economic sector for our country. Hotels and tourism will not survive, but we don't care, we have to change the model. And today we find ourselves in this plenary with the government's request that the indebtedness of this government be increased "with the limitation that the balance at the end of the year does not exceed the corresponding balance at the beginning of the year by more than 1,546,237,355 euros". The first consideration is that they bring this figure, but it could be any other. Come on, it's this one because it's the one they've authorized. We have read that it will be destined to Health, R+D+i, Education... A priori it does not sound bad, but it is necessary to stick to the facts. The only truth for the moment is that there are more public offices; the only thing announced by the different advisors are more OPE, more ideological spending, and no structural stakes in the different areas. Let's move everything so nothing changes. And the generalist headlines have picked it up: "Azpiazu burys austerity"; "Vasco Government announces Budgets 'without cuts and away from austerity'"; Azpiazu, too, has assured "that the accounts of 2021 will be 'valid', without cuts and away from 'austerity'". And despite all the announcements, who will pay for the crisis? The usual: the popular classes, those who get early to go to work. Their central government partners don't tell the truth or the doctor. But, centering on the subject, what's wrong with the word "austerity"? "Austereness" means nothing other than giving up certain things that can be dispensed with. It is frankly frightening that citizens have no choice but to be dramatically austere, while it gives the impression that the government is partying. They see unemployment very close when they are at ERTE; they take time in unemployment; they are young people who do not find how to access their first job; retirees with very low pensions... And here the water keeps running. You renounce that austerity when you spend the money of your taxes, of the taxes of citizens who do not arrive at the end of the month, of self-reliant burnouts, of entrepreneurs with water around their necks... and when it does not reach them, you are indebted for it by future generations. It gives the feeling that the inability to cope with the crisis of the COVID-19 with a minimum of common sense has led them to a flight forward, whose only proclamation is "we will spend more public money", as if Mr Azpiazu had a machine to make tickets next to his office. It is inconceivable for common sense: as long as the citizens do not arrive at the end of the month and fear for their future, you make grandiose announcements about the goodness of debt, as if we did not have to return the amounts received, as if we did not mortgage future public services. In the face of the unprecedented decline of the collection, in the face of unabated numbers of citizens in ERTE, in the face of a desolating panorama of a key sector for our economy, such as hospitality and tourism, it gives the feeling that they are the bad ones in this black novel, above all! Neither a structural measure, nor a bet that does not mortgage our future, nor a courageous decision. I will point out to you some measures to be taken before resorting to indebtedness, before mortgageing the future of our children and grandchildren: closing down chiringuitos, which only satisfy political parties and are ineffective and efficient as a public service; encouraging municipal mergers – many more rich countries than we have been doing for years –; reorganizing EITB, a reorganization that leads to a drastic reduction in its budget; rejecting the number and privileges of politicians in the Basque Country; betting on a sustainable and non-elephantial institutional architecture for nationalistic dreams; eliminating duplicities, simplifying, reducing, making a modern administration and not an agenda for placement. In short, reform. It's very easy to shoot with someone else's gunpowder, gunpowder they'll have to pay for the usual. It is not necessary to say this, but in case there is any doubt: we are going to vote against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u27	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The discussion is over and we'll vote for the bill. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 1. Abstations, 32; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u28	So it's been accepted to change the law that the General Prejugation of the 20th year of the Basque Autonomy Esproduces accepts of the law. We'll go next to the vote. PP-Ciudadnos is the representative of the group. Mr. Gordillo, from where you please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, very briefly, that this is the explanation of vote. It is a pity that Mr Azpiazu has left the Chamber; he does not only not feel like talking to us, but he does not seem to want to listen to us either, but well... We have already transmitted in the investiture session our hand to the Government, above all to deal with two issues that we believe to be fundamental: the economy, the recovery of employment, within the economy, also the fight against COVID, and the financing of the measures that are necessary, in a context, obviously, of a certain consensus and, above all, of a certain communication, which has not occurred. They've brought us a proposal, a bill to change the debt limit. Basically, what is at stake is to extend the maximum debt ceiling from one hundred and seventy-six million to 1,546 million. In other words, there was a gap of some EUR 1,374 million. We understand that it is to pay bills that have already been committed, that have already been spent, and that is why we, out of responsibility, have not prevented either – nor would we have managed, while the majority, therefore, have the sufficient votes – but we, in this sense, have presented abstention above all as a gesture of maintenance... "Mr. Azpiazu, I was speaking before you," he said, especially as a gesture of goodwill. That is why we abstained. The budgets for which an increase in the debt ceiling was claimed are budgets which you, at the time, agreed with Podemos, which is why, by the way, I was surprised that you abstained, because, moreover, when it comes to increasing the debt, because you have never put many problems either. But we would have liked to talk to you. Since you have presented it by the procedure – which I understand, uh – the urgency procedure, in these cases I think it is desirable that the groups can first meet with the Government to explain to us, to give us certain data that only you have. For example, we could have been made clear why, as of September, only twenty-three percent have been executed in the investment chapter. These are data we've had to look for a little bit in Irekia. I mean, I just think that this would have been pretty good, because, besides, I would have sent I think that a sensible message to all operators, not only economic, but also citizens. We could even have considered voting in favour. The issue of debt is always a delicate one. We, I believe here, do share a point in common with you and your Government and your department, Mr Azpiazu: the debt is not to go and fatten it up, but rather debt is as a tool for at a certain time being able to take a step back, but to gain momentum. Not to step back to stay behind, but to get momentum. This is why we continue, I insist, with the help of the Government in economic matters and in the recovery of employment in particular. But really, if you want us to continue with the hand stretched out and if you really want us to find common ground and, above all... You said the other day that you wanted a budget unanimously. Man, there's gonna be a lot of trouble coming up with us, specifically, with other groups... But if you really want to fatten up or, above all, forgive me, increase the points in common, because you must contact us in order to discuss these issues, especially when in the parliamentary debate this is not possible because the urgent procedure requires basically or everything or nothing. This is the meaning of our vote, and that is why I wanted to give you, Mr Azpiazu, and ladies and gentlemen, the explanation of our group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u30	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, representative of the Podemos-IU team, Soto. Yes, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u31	Well, Mr Gordillo wondered why we abstained. Well, now, if you want, I'll explain. I'll be clear. The reality, and to begin with somewhere, is that we have gone from a speech and public argumentaries, in relation to practically all those who administered the haciendas, of neoliberal cut, in addition to a firm way over the last few years, almost as if it were a dogma of faith the budgetary balance and the application of austerity, at a time when it seems that Keynesianism also takes strength, at least as far as speeches are concerned. Because, of course, right now, with the change that is coming to full in a single reading today, we doubt the real will for this speech to be translated into a reality. It is true that we are going to draw in debt, but basically to hold exclusively the down payment. The counselor has explained it very well. But the moment we are living in is not the same as when the 2020 budgets were adopted. At the moment, the result of the drop in collection, basically with the economic amount that has been encrypted for the indebtedness and to sustain that drop in collection, what we are going to see, basically, is to maintain, in terms of expenditure, the same figures as for the 2020 budget. Bearing in mind that we are currently in the second wave of the COVID crisis, with the uncertainty that exists in many families, in many SMEs, with regard to the future and with regard to what may happen, and with the need to encourage productive investment from the public. It is true that it has been said that in view of 2021 there will be an increase. We are going to put out of debt everything that is needed, without addressing, by the way – we have already mentioned this on more than one occasion, both in committee and in some full of control – without any structural reform of fiscal policy that would be needed in order to be able to meet the possible limits on the deficit in the coming years, but in any case, and now, in view of the 2020 budget, we believe that it could have been somewhat more courageous with regard to public spending capacity and to increase it beyond the fall of revenue collection. But it is true that, also because of the sense of responsibility, we abstained, because it is okay, it is right to maintain the level of spending in the 2020 budget, but, of course, that means that what we are going to do is a reallocation of items, which is what the Councilman also mentioned in one of his appearances at the time. We are going to take sides that at the time were allocated to certain issues and now we are going to use them for the time of crisis that we are experiencing. Well, I say, that's fine, but that means that in some aspects of the 2020 budget approved at the time, cuts are going to be made, cuts are going to be made, because certain investments foreseen in the 2020 budget are not going to be implemented, in order to be able to implement the economic aid that they intend to implement for 2020 and also the necessary contracts in relation to Health – massive screenings, staffing reinforcements...–. In order for this to be put in place, bearing in mind that the only thing we are going to face with the debt that has been put on the table here is the drop in collection, we are going to have to get out of other items of the approved budget in 2020. But we do believe that, regardless of that, the alternative option would be worse and would be to assume the reduction in debt-free collection towards 2020 as a reality, which would mean, in that case, that we would have even less economic resources to deal with this situation. And that has basically been the reason for the abstention. In other words, and by summarising it, from our political group, with regard to this last quarter of 2020, we would have been somewhat more ambitious with regard to indebtedness and would not have been limited to dealing only with the drop in collection, but we believe that from now on we have to be in a policy of public impulse of economic activity, and we cannot expect to address it in the 2021 budget. It should already have been done in the light of the extraordinary and urgent procedure that has been carried out in full. In other words, let us go beyond sustaining the level of spending. Let's raise it. That is basically the reason – with this I would say to Mr Gordillo – that we have not supported this proposal, because from our political group, from our coalition, we believe that we should have gone further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u32	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u33	Yes, with permission from the presidency, from the seat. The Basque Socialists have supported this draft law amending the Budgets for 2020 because it is a political initiative and legally appropriate to the economic developments of recent weeks. In the current budgets being implemented, the recourse to borrowing was legally established in accordance with the agreed tax collection forecasts established by the Basque Public Finance Council in October last year. In addition, account was also taken of the agreements reached between the State Administration and the Autonomous Administration under the provisions of the legislation on budgetary stability and the Law on Economic Concert in the establishment of indebtedness. As explained in the motivation of the bill, and as explained by the Economic and Financial Adviser, the health and economic crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic has resulted in increased spending on services particularly affected by the pandemic and, at the same time and simultaneously, there has been a lower collection of agreed taxes. According to the Basque Finance Council's forecasts, which took place on 15 October, the closure of the collection for agreed taxes means a reduction from the initially estimated amount of more than EUR 2.3 billion. The Basque Socialists consider it consistent that budgets should be adapted to the scenario of higher expenditure and lower collection as a result of this pandemic that we are suffering. We must also take into account what happened to the Joint Committee on Economic Concerts, at whose meeting on 30 September the revision of the budgetary stability and public debt objectives of Euskadi was agreed and the deficit and debt objectives were agreed, since the fiscal rules for the period 2020-2021 had also been suspended, and both percentages have been regarded as reference rates for the current financial year. These public objective events must also be taken into account that budgets must contribute to the recovery and dynamism of the Basque economy from budgetary balance. The Basque Socialists share with the Government that both the forecasting of lower income from contributions and the widening of the agreed deficit margin between the State Administration and the Basque administration suggest increasing the use of long-term debt, in addition to a reasonable amount, in order to help alleviate those higher and lower revenues and, in addition, to boost economic recovery and the dynamism of the Basque economy, without prejudice to maintaining that initially approved budgetary balance between revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2020. The Basque Socialists have supported this amendment of the draft Budgets Act 2020, in line with our commitment of government to the rigorous use of public resources and debt in a responsible way to encourage the response to the economic and employment crisis that is causing the COVID-19 pandemic. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Rodriguez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u35	Chief of Parliament, Mr. Chief, members of the legislature. I will give five arguments, contrary to this proposition of law, which has been introduced to us, and one of which, in some measure, appears or explains our abscesssion. The first argument. We understand that this legal proposition is, after all, a continuation of the policy of competition. For why have we confined ourselves to this 2,6 deficiency, in case the serious and complicated social and economic situation that we live in this year has been suspended? Why? I'll say more: why should we self-destroyer our finances, if our financial faculties give them more than that? I'll say more: Why do we mostly drive ourselves, especially if these serious social and economic needs I've just mentioned demand much more? He said that he himself, a short time ago, should recommend that defenceal line to be 3,9. So we don't understand. We don't understand. I repeat: Because we're self-destructive, or we're self-resisting, unless we prefer the neoliberal doctrine application, if it has been before the serious social and economic needs. The second argument is that this proposal, to some extent, does not cease to reflect the lack of sovereignty, the lack of real self-government in this country. And I'll explain myself. We have heard that the agreement reached in the Joint Committee on Economic Concert and setting this deficit at 2.6 is an example of bilaterality and self-government. And we say that it is an example, yes, but that it is an example precisely of the situation of subordination and subsidiarity of our people towards Madrid. Because look: it was Madrid in all this negotiation that decided the rhythms, the moments, the contents and that final figure of 2.6. So, we think, as I say, that this actually gives the measure of the real level of self-government and sovereignty that this country has: it is Madrid that decides. And if that were not enough, we have concluded an agreement, which in our opinion is still a birria in relation to and in comparison to the agreement reached by Euskal Herria Bildu with the two parties that support the Government of Spain and which gave the possibility that we would be in debt alone and exclusively – as I said before – according to our financial situation, which is – what is doubtless – much more solvent than that of the Ebro down. And this brings me to the third argument, and it is that this proposal does not stop being reflected also in a way of doing things, in a model of vertical and unilateral governance. Because, who has decided that that figure has to be 2.6? Or who decided before it could be or should be 3.9? Who did you talk to? With no one but yourself. So, we don't understand... I will tell you more: if it becomes the PNV who reaches that agreement to which I have referred before, and not Euskal Herria Bildu, yes, what would have been the attitude of this government? Yeah. What would have been the attitude of this Government in this Joint Committee on Economic Concert? Why did this government not defend that agreement of Euskal Herria Bildu which, what doubt is there, was far more beneficial than this one which you have agreed to? Why? We think – and we say this seriously, and we are concerned – that this government still does not understand that, if it is no longer advisable to act and govern in this way in a situation of stability and normality, we sincerely believe that they should reflect on the fact that a model of collaborative governance is essential in a situation of genuine exceptionality and in the face of the challenges facing us in the next decade. The fourth argument. It is said that this new degree of humiliation will correct the concentration of money, as has been said, to rethink the downfall that has been in the sources of money, and to refresh economic activity in some way. And we say that they agree with this, but that, or rather, they ought to correct him here or in particular, and that if he had now to answer these serious economics and social needs, they would have to increase, increase, increase, in education, in health, in Rastas, families, autonomies, and the support of pymae... And he's not doing it, he's not doing it, because we're seeing him every Thursday and every afternoon, and he's answered all the proposals he's brought with him in that sense with a negative. And the last argument I'm dbing is what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u36	Yes, I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u37	We have said, however, that it is dangerous for us to play a single card in this situation, and only, in a manner, to do it, and that it is indispensable for a deep-rate reform attorney. But, in any case, we are in no way opposed to the possibility of increasing this degree of madness, and therefore we are better off than the former. So, that's why we're abscessium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u38	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. Our parliamentary group has voted in favour of this bill, as it is a very specific and timely project, which is the extension of the ceiling on indebtedness, up to EUR 1,546 million, provided for in the Euskadi General Budgets for the financial year 2020. As Sailburu has explained, it is not a debt with a permanence vocation, but it is the indebtedness necessary to implement planned projects, to respond to the additional expenses arising as a result of this economic, health and social crisis resulting from the COVID-19 and to face the least expected collection for agreed taxes. The number is the result of the predictions given by the Basque Council of the United States, and the predictions, as far as they are expected, are variable. But in the results given in that 15th council of October, 2020, the predictions of the collection showed the reduction of 13,3%, and, in absolute terms, less than that which was collected in 2019. Considering these results, the contributions of the forums will be less than 1,543 million in the accounts of the previous 2020. So this project of the purpose is to confer as much funding as possible on the Esinomic Escany Administration, in order that the budgets of 2020 should unite with this new situation, to prevent the preventions of the budget, in order to prevent the major public policies from being damaged by the budget. What is clear to us is that it is not a patch, as some have indicated. It is debt for a policy of expansion, not contraction. Activating demand, reactivating the economy. By empowering – even more – social protection, health and education; by encouraging employment and the economy to rebuild Euskadi. A country project, which needs it now. And, hence, this bill and its handling along this path. Traditionally, it is noteworthy that this increased financing from borrowing operations can be assumed given the financial and solvency situation of Euskadi, with a level of public debt relative to the gross domestic product among the lowest of all the autonomous communities of the state. With the latest figures published by the Banco de España for the second quarter of 2020, Euskadi is the second lowest-percentaged community, at only 0.3% compared to the lowest-percentaged community. Therefore, if this measure is taken it is because it can be done; the system has capacity thanks to the good management of the past and to the fate given to the surplus, in this case the amortization of the debt. Let us remember that it is a destiny conditioned by the law of stability, which all – we like more or less – we have had to comply. Because, as much as there is criticism of the "austerous" management of the Basque Government, we can observe that in those local or outlying governments in which other political parties are or have been in this House, everyone has complied with this law, and I do not think that they have been tainted with an austere budget. What an obsession with austerity! They call us "austers" and, in turn, "drinkers" – I'm already lost–; they speak of "neoliberals", of "Keynes"... Really, we went from being "virologist experts" to being "economist experts". Please, let's make good management. Beraz, zorroztasuna age serious unbai, esz austerity. Mesedez, ez nahastu kontzeptuak. Turning to the reference to the above-mentioned stability law and its deficit limitations, let us not forget that the department led by Mr Azpiazu has reached an agreement that today allows this bill to be brought to the Basque Parliament. A historic agreement, reached at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Economic Concert on 30 September, on deficit figures and public debt targets. It is an important milestone that recognizes that outlaws have tax power in historical territories. The Economic Concert represents a level of self-government in economic matters that requires responses adapted to the Basque reality. And so it has been on this occasion too. By the way, they are reference rates, they are not self-imposed limits. Reference rates. It is a bilateral agreement, negotiated ad hoc for Euskadi, which implies that we do not have "coffee for all"; it is an agreement that lays the foundations for the future; it is a step forward, that puts us in a situation of preference. Let's see if we can figure it out. So, as I said, in front of this project that the government has, where we see the necessary obligation to advance, you have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, find Casanova Alonso EH Collectors, about the planning of the serious situation in front of which the trade, the tourism, and the hosts are suffering. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Casanova, your word is to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u41	Good morning, everyone. In the first place, I would like to welcome the representatives of several departments and commerce which are with us today. We know that there were many others who would be with us to-day, but they could not by reason of the situation produced by the pandemies, and by the restrictions they gave them. We also know that others are following this plenon through the stream, and a warm farewell to them all, and a hug, as we often say, to continue our engagement to defend their own interests. We've all been part of some sort of exercise in strengthening the dynamic of groups, and in this there is a simple exercise of increasing confidence in one another; a man turns his back to the group, closes his eyes, and lets himself fall back. At that moment, what the person expects is that the other members of the community should stretch out their hands or arms and not let them fall or stop falling. So that their trust is strengthened by their bonds. We make a plan like this in the eyes of society. Our society must also be a kind of confidence, a common support system. We believe that in an advanced society, we are not living together, we live together. And that gives life another dimension. In the modern state, this concept of form and state has more and more guarantees its members, more and more support, more and more space for the interaction of each other. The wants of people, time, and advanced societies, are becoming right. Today we think that health, education, and care are rights, and that the state must be secured. Even in the Basque society, we've been reflecting on the income for several years, and we think that when people need minimal incomes to live, to live, to survive, even when they need the minimum rate of money, society must be able to guarantee it too. Therefore the system of securing our incomes does not proceed from the concept of help, but from the concept of right. The revenues are not distributed on the system, but the preparations, which are answered by a right. And we think this ought to spread to all the members of society, even under any condition, not only to those who are within that system of preparation, but to those who have serious problems about money. Pandemics, pandemics, has placed us in a very complicated position, and has specially located certain specific economic sectors. We'll talk about it today. We'll talk about autonomists today, the merchants, the hosts. It wasn't the only sectors that suffered the effects of the pandemia. Here, in other cases, we have discussed the state of other factories, other sectors, but we will speak of them more particularly to-day. Because these Sectors have fallen back, or rather, because their ranges have been pushed back, and unfortunately there hasn't been a government, there hasn't been a state to stop that fall. Independently of those who have suffered pandemia in the health world, the most injured have been in the socienomical scale. There had been, as in the social sector, the former suffer from the influence of the panic, and cannot yet be said to have been overcome by these effects. Moreover, we may safely say that this impact has increased during the past few weeks. The situation is critical, and as time passes, it gets harder, not only because new restrictions have been established, but because the weight of these months becomes heavier. It is not only that these persons have seen the revenues very narrow, but that, independently of this restriction, the cost and expenses which they were obliged to take were mainly kept there. For these people, we will focus on the hosts of the autonomists, but we believe that this can be more general for autonomous, although the hosts are the most injured, François, when these people fail in their social condition, when their business fails, they do not only go to unemployment, like any other employee, and we will not say that it's a delicate situation to go to unemployment for other workers. These people go to unemployment with a heavy bag full of debts because they usually have a hard time working on their business. They are then left in unemployment, and are moreover burdened with it. And we think it's time to give a strong answer. Months have been lost in hosting; they've been closed to the host for several months, and the conditions have been non-normal after opening. They have lost, for instance, the special incomes of the popular holidays; in some cases, the elevation of the Holy Week; they are about to lose, that certain dates that are important are della Rebbia San Thomas, or that they are Christmas or corporation dinners, which are made at Christmas. It's a critical situation, and if we don't do something, the effect will be to increase the pressure of the closed and the increase of human and economic dramas. Statuek, that's genuine lehen, hauek direnean errors, ez dietela weretzun, eta tute dugu datuak hor daudela. People who have been affected by a cessation of activity, during the initial moments of the pandemic – of the autonomous world – received around 600 euros of State aid as compensation for that cessation of activity. Some other advantages in the sense of, well, moratoriums, credits – you have to remember that the moratoriums are paid when the moratorium is over; the credits also have to be paid – some postponement and so on, but in any case, very insufficient amounts to even compensate for the expenses. It must be borne in mind that an autonomous person, in particular a hotelier who operates a business, who has a series of very large fixed expenses, does not suffer a loss of his real income in the same proportion as his gross income; that is, if he earns half or enters half, that does not mean that the salary he takes home is half, because of that half which the great majority earns he will cover the fixed expenses and, therefore, by winning half he can be given the situation that his salary is not half, but that it is directly zero. Those realities are happening. People who work in the hospitality world are giving themselves the reality that having the self-employed who run the business a stoppage, and having one or two workers at ERTE, the people who were at ERTE were charging more than the boss, in quotes, and we do not underestimate in any way the importance of the people who have ERTE also having good financial coverage, but it must be understood that that person, that head – in quotes –, that self-employed, apart from the personal subsistence needs of him and his family, or of her and his family, also has the need to meet the expenses of his business. We said that the State had provided a stoppage of EUR 600, and here we have had the aid in two stages, the famous Lanbide aid, on which I am not going to stop in the formal aspect because I believe that it has already been sufficiently criticized, even acknowledged some errors by the persons responsible – those aid that were granted by order of request, with a computer system that collapsed and so on – but I am going to focus on the inadequacy of the amounts, which has been demonstrated by the fact that 60% of the people who applied for the aid, having the same right as those who received it, have not been able to access them, simply because there was not enough money. It is therefore necessary to raise the problem in all its crudeness and also to respond in all the dimensions of this problem. And therefore we may call the motion we bring here to-day, "Observation in the Integral plan," because we think that the means are to resolve the state of these persons, or at least to assist them, because they will not be at all in the state they were in, as long as pandemy lasts, but at least we must offer, with dignity, the means and means of exile as business. We are proposing, and I am going to summarise in five, the fundamental measures that we consider essential today, or these similar measures or measures that attack these areas and these problems, so that the hospitality sector can survive, because the situation gets worse for days, gets worse for hours, the situation gets worse for moments. Firstly, we propose that this aid which was given in April and which was objectively insufficient because it left out 60% of the applicants to recover and that with the same dossiers already submitted a new heading is created or the existing one is extended in order to reach those 9,000 excluded people, to that 60% of excluded people, because the problem that had to be faced in April is still there for those people. They are problems of accumulated debts, they are problems of which the lack of income has resulted in arrears of payments, in which, colloquially speaking, a hole has been created that these aids could help to alleviate or cover. We also propose new lines of support for self-employed persons who see themselves or are engaged in a cessation of activity or who maintain activity subject to current or future restrictions, which obviously severely restrict income entry. For those who can benefit from the two forms of cessation that the State offers today, both the cessation in administrative order and the cessation by revenue decrease of 50% or higher, we propose an aid own from the Basque Government between 600 and 1,200 euros, scheming, depending on the income that the family core may have and the expenses that may exist, that band of 600 and 1,200 euros, which would be compatible with the aid of the State between 400 and 550. Therefore, we are talking about guaranteeing a horizon of at least EUR 1,200 for people working in the hospitality sector who have to close their businesses, we repeat, bearing in mind that many of the expenses, although some of us also contribute to alleviating for another of the measures we propose, but many of the expenses will remain there, and of course, of the debts contracted previously. For those people, those businesses or self-employed who see their income reduced by more than 25%, but do not reach 50% of the stoppage, we propose an accompaniment of between 400 and 800 euros, because not all self-employed, bars, hospitality businesses have terrace, because new restrictions are being applied, because you can no longer consume on the bar, you can no longer consume on your feet – before you could not, now you could not sit on the bar either – because the seats have been brutally limited. And we understand that even being able to open, with these limitations, they need help for an assisted opening. In the same way that we must accompany the closures, we must accompany the people who remain open, because they have clearly insufficient income for subsistence. We propose to tackle the issue of rents. Yesterday, with the Councillor, we were talking about the measures taken in Catalonia; he questioned their suitability, but in any case they are measures in force, which are already on the table and are measures which are, well, translated into positive law; they are neither dreams nor abstractions. We also have – and it was also mentioned in yesterday's debate – the judgment of the Court of First Instance number 81 in Madrid, which accepts the rebus sic stantibus clause – rebus for friends, the rebus clause – which allows, given the substantial variation in the nature of the contractual relationship, allows, in the case of this judgment, a reduction in rent of up to 50%. But, in any case, we in the Basque Government in this motion ask you to draw up a legal study so that, in fact, knowing that it is a sensitive issue and that it can deal with possible resources in the future, so that it shields the formula of accessing or facilitating people a reduction in the payment of rents. We also propose postponements, debt deferrals and tax deferrals, because in many of the postponements that reached the beginning of the pandemic now is falling or falling the need to deal with them, at this moment, at these worst times. We therefore propose that they be postponed again. We propose that aid should be universal. Please let the aid go away, let it go away from running for aid, that when people meet the requirements there is a sufficient budget allocation to reach the whole world without the means of allocation which, when they do not come in full, humiliate it. We ask that the bureaucracy be speeded up. And it can be speeded up. There are administrative procedures that, through a responsible declaration, take place and, therefore, for these people who are drowned, drowned to such an extent that – one of the people who has worked in counseling to the self-employed during the times of the pandemic, of an association of traders – they called them professionals of legal advice to ask them what they had to suggest to their clients because indeed even the specialists were lost in the matter. Simplicity, lack of bureaucracy. We want you to cease the stigmatization of certain groups that may have their... –I am not going to say "their responsibility" – that they may have to assume the need for restrictions, but that in any case they cannot be blamed one day yes and another also as if the pandemic alone and exclusively spread in their establishments. We ask the agents of authority, when they have to comply with the regulations, to be respectful and empathetic with the dramatic situation these people are experiencing. We do not say that we should have a big look, but even when it comes to applying the rules, we understand that we must have enough touch. We believe that establishments cannot be sealed in a way that stigmatizes those establishments and leaves them, in some way, marked. Finally, we call for support for the sector, for associationism, with the necessary budget and so that it can continue to deal with the extra advisory tasks that they are doing at this time of pandemic, and for the respective sectoral tables in the autonomous sector, tourism and trade to be convened to draw up plans jointly with those responsible for these areas. I believe that if all of us in this Parliament were to be deprived of our source of income, if we were to be taken away from our salary or if we were to be reduced to such an extent that we could not survive, we would have taken action for a long time and, on some other occasion, I have repeated this argument. I don't like to give way to some demagogy and some widespread anti-politics, which I find irresponsible, but...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u42	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u43	... I am absolutely sure that if the salary and living conditions that self-employed workers and hotel workers have...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u44	Thank you, Mr. Casanova...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u45	... We'd have them here, the measures would have arrived by now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u46	Thank you. Passing over the teams that were running the corrections, Euscala Populara-Ciudados. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u47	Thank you, President. Good morning. Today we talk about commerce, hospitality, actually autonomous. It is a sector seriously affected by the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. Since March, we have been dragging half-way solutions to one of the sectors most affected by the economic crisis resulting from the health measures so necessary that they have had to be taken to try to double the COVID virus. A sector dominated by self-employed people – I said earlier – who have invested their assets on many occasions or who have loans to carry out on a monthly basis – whether there is a pandemic or not, whether they enter money or not – when the moratoriums are over, which have a small number of workers and of which most of the families in Euskadi live. We cannot look elsewhere, we have to put all our effort and work in order not to leave all those families dependent on such a diverse and enriching sector, which characterizes this community of Spain so much. Because thanks to the efforts, the know-how, the know-how or whatever they want to call it, and to the dedication that entire generations have lent to these businesses, Euskadi, today, is a global reference in terms of tourism, gastronomy and leisure. We all know that here you eat well, we know that here we have the best and most wonderful places in the world, but what is going to be of the quality of care given by those workers who, thanks to their efforts, have managed to bear the name of the Basque Country throughout the world? Thank you to all those brave ones who for years have raised the blind of their businesses, on many occasions with the wind against, but who have not stopped worrying about their neighbors, let us not forget that our cities without close shops are soulless cities, and we have discovered it during the first confinement of this pandemic. We are under an obligation to give financial support to those who for years have been concerned with supplying and serving our citizens. I will set an example for you to understand to what extent a local trade, small trade, is important in our communities, in our neighborhoods. I, for example, can think of the baker, who is the only person who visits the lady, the grandmother of the next block, who is a widow and has no children. If you spend a few days without me going down your bread bar, you're the only one who's gonna blow the alarms or ask the neighbors if they know anything about her. For this type of thing is why we have to continue to maintain and give soul to our cities, helping our nearby economy, our nearby businesses. How many times has your dedication to the client saved the lives of those people who are at a different stage of life when loneliness prevails? And I am not going to stop in more detail to argue that we need to coordinate the aid necessary for the self-employed to once again access and improve the aid granted last April; that a new subsidy line be opened with which all those who meet the requirements can be met and not with a budget that leaves out of the call thousands and thousands of self-employed people, who are also having a bad time; that these aid be not exclusive, such as those offered by the Government of Spain, as well as those which could implement other local administrations, such as municipalities. Let us not leave out these calls for help to anyone who, with our measures to protect the health of Euskadi, is ruining. Yesterday Mr Hurtado said in the committee that "without health there is no economy". I agree, but let us not let the self-employed and the SMEs in Euskadi stop opening their blinds or, at least, help them keep the type so that when the health situation improves, or has improved, they can open their blinds. Political decisions, even if backed up by the health crisis that we face, cannot lead to the closure of business, cannot lead to the loss of the economic lung of the Basque Country, such as the autonomous ones. In this case we are talking about a very specific sector, such as hospitality and commerce. And, of course, it's important for consumers to do so in the neighborhood shops that pay their taxes here, but we can't throw balloons out and think that this is only solved by buying them all in the neighborhood store. Let us launch, as soon as possible, the digital platforms that we have been talking about for a long time, and let us make it easier for the business sector to digitise, and for consumers, who can't change municipalities now, to buy where they like best, to do so by means of platforms that tax here, as Mr Hurtado said yesterday. We have tabled an amendment in its entirety because we do not agree with several points in Mr Casanova's proposal from Bildu, which are fundamental to us. We support the merchant associations, which have devoted all their efforts to advising the shops and the hospitality during the first confinement, but let us not forget that the important thing now is to help the merchants and the hoteliers. We dedicate all our possible resources to them. Now the urgency; later the associations of merchants, who do not cease to be associate merchants, who advise among themselves and that their main source of income must be the partner's share. Secondly, one of the problems we face, we last faced, is that Lanbide's aid was incompatible with that of other administrations. It is normal for us to coordinate with the other administrations so as not to generate incompatible but complementary aid between them. And the third point is that we do not understand why those who have paid the property tax should be punished. What about those merchants and hoteliers if they have to close their businesses, their employees don't deserve a chance like the rest? The estate tax... Also at the point where you talk about the property tax, you talk about last year's tax, and why not the previous four. It may be that property excludes even the main dwelling where it resides. That may be a cassock like Galapagar's and yet he has no savings and no taxes, he does not pay the property tax, but there may be people who have a normal home, who have inherited it at a certain time and who have had to declare in the previous year as shares, bonds, which he cannot dispose of or does not dispose of, because they are closed, that is, will he face the crisis with that? The situation is special, so let us not stop at political ideas to try to penalise those who do not want to help or think they are different. Are we going to ask you again to put your assets on the line to stand in the face of the crisis that we are causing you to succumb to the decisions that have been seen in the obligation to make? We will therefore support our amendment, in which we have deleted these points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u49	Thank you, President. I would also like to greet, on behalf of the Basque Socialists, the representatives of hospitality and trade who are accompanying us in this debate today. The question raised by Euskal Herria Bildu about this motion raised what the Government is going to do in the face of the deepest crisis in the history of the commercial, tourist and hospitality sector, and the motion we are debating today contains 12 points, of which only three are devoted exclusively to the management of the competition of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs. The Basque Socialists, together with the Basque nationalists, have tabled an alternative amendment calling on the Basque Government to maintain, adapt and increase economically, to the extent possible, in Budgets 2021, the lines of aid launched in the initial phase and in the phase of resistance to the economic impact of COVID in the tourism, hospitality and trade sectors, such as the programmes to support the modernisation of establishments, the programme of aid to encourage regional strategies for cooperation, dynamism and urban commercial competitiveness (Hirigune), the programme of aid for technical offices of commerce and the programmes for the marketing and promotion of tourist products in support of territorial tourist projects or the entrepreneurship and improvement of the competitiveness of tourist companies. In addition to this aid line currently in force, we urge the Basque Government to implement as many programmes as possible to minimize the impact of the pandemic on these sectors. Also, and as expressed by the adviser, the Government's commitment is expressed to analyse and evaluate the results of consumer promotion programmes in order to study their continuity and incorporate the precise modifications. The Government is urged to maintain coordination and joint evaluation with the other institutions of the programmes launched to assist the sustainability and recovery of the tourism, hospitality and trade sector. The inter-institutional study of the implementation of other aid measures deriving from known good practices is also committed. In addition, we urge the Government to continue to work with representatives of professional associations in the hospitality, tourism and trade sectors to maintain and increase the lines of collaboration. Finally, we take advantage of the initiative of this institution, which is the Basque Parliament, to recognise and value positively, very positively, the work and effort made by the tourism, trade and hospitality sectors in order not only to maintain their professional activity, but also the jobs of workers and workers, and we therefore urge the Basque Government to promote campaigns to recognize the commitment of the tourism, hospitality and trade sectors to cope with the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as to promote local consumption. The proposals put forward by Euskal Herria Bildu for the self-employed, in addition to being a generic competence of the Government, and not of the Department of Commerce and Consumption Tourism, wanted to say that there have already been pronouncements on this matter and have been the subject of discussion both in the Permanent Council of the last parliamentary term and in this new parliamentary term when, for example, on 22 October, we discussed the urgent measures to be taken in the extraordinary aid for workers affected by ERTE and we approved to urge the Government to continue to strengthen the Social Dialogue Bureau in order to be able to agree on the socio-laboral policy to deal with the economic and social crisis resulting from the health crisis by improving the established benefits. We urge the Government to maintain supplementary aid to temporary employment regulation cases under the conditions agreed at the Social Dialogue Bureau, believing that both figures are fundamental in defending employment during the crisis, allowing companies, unlike the previous crisis, to resort to flexibility mechanisms, not dismissal. All the activities of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs in the areas of their responsibility are aimed, first, at prioritizing people's health, but also at prioritizing jobs and their economic situation. We know, we know the reality, we know the situation is very difficult, and the government and the parties that we support the government are fully aware of that reality, and because we know it – the advisor also said it in yesterday's appearance – 44.7 % of the people affected by an ERTE were related to the tourism, trade and hospitality sector; 21.9 % of the social security affiliates in the trade sector have been in ERTE; in the tourism sector, 41.8 % of the staff have gone through an ERTE situation, and in the hospitality sector, 65 % of the staff have been in ERTE. This data provided by the Tourism, Trade and Consumption Adviser yesterday really puts us in a very serious situation which affects employment and the economy in a large number of people and, consequently, the general Basque economy. The fall in sales in the Basque trade was 22% in the second quarter of this year; tourist arrivals fell by 47% between the summer, July, August and September, and the drop in hospitality stood at 64.3% in the second quarter of this year. Of the diagnosis made yesterday by the adviser and of the analysis of the Orkestra report, it should be noted that neither has the behaviour been uniform within the sector itself and there have been very different situations between those who have been forced to close and have not been able to bill, as in some cases it has been that of night leisure, and among those who are able to work have seen their income, such as MICE tourism, and among those who have endured a little better the drop in sales or entry of tourists, such as agrotourisms or the food trade. That is why the measures, which is why the aid to be implemented must be different, must be adapted to the circumstances and adapt to the situation of the sectors. And, unfortunately, we can summarise a diagnosis that we are experiencing as that of a very harsh, very harsh situation, no doubt, for the tourism, trade, hospitality sector, and it will continue to be difficult, so the measures that have been put in place, the measures that will be implemented and that will adapt to the circumstances that are taking place, must be coordinated measures, must be rigorous measures, not the right pen, because we are all very sensitive. No, they have to be rigorous measures, blocked from the diagnosis, from the analysis of the situation that is being lived; then, implant them. But, from inter-institutional coordination, we must take advantage of all the efforts being made by the various institutional levels in the Basque Country. From the diversity of institutional architecture, we must put all the tools, all the budgets and all the measures in coordination and in conjunction so that we can truly increase our efforts exponentially among all if we really do that coordinated work. The situation on 29 October, today, is different from that we had at the time of the inquiry and at the time of the motion's registration. Today we have a state of alarm statement, with a Decree 36/2020 of 26 October of the lehendakari, approving certain measures, imposing specific preventive measures as a result of the evolution of the epidemiological situation. Mr. Casanova said, "Nothing is being done." If things are being done, if things have been done by the State: measures have been put in place, through a social dialogue, of the ERTE; ERTE has been extended; ERTE has been supplemented by the Basque Government; measures have been introduced such as extraordinary aid amounting to EUR 15 million; ordinary aid amounting to EUR 8 million; consumer bonds, which came out of the sector itself, consumer bonds amounting to EUR 5.7 million provided by the Basque Government, but as a whole institutionally, in a pioneering agreement, they assumed and amount to EUR 9 million for an impact of EUR 26 million; ordinary aid to the sector continues to be maintained; moreover, various items have been reorganized so that these aid can be increased by 265 % to the hospitality sector, for the hospitality associations. I mean, things are being done. It cannot be said that neither the State nor the Basque Government have done anything. And yesterday the adviser announced the creation of the inter-agency table at which the Basque Government will have three departments: the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, the Department of Economy and Finance, the Department of Governance and the Department of Labour and Employment. At that inter-institutional table there will also be out-of-court deputies. At that inter-institutional table will be the municipalities of the three Basque capitals. And that is where, with the creation of five technical working tables, where we will be able to talk about aid, about the mediation of rents – which was a proposal that the advisor also made yesterday – address the issues that really matter to the sector. There are a number of issues that really matter to the sector: aid matters, subsidy lines, the status of commercial rentals, the evaluation of Elkargi's funds in these sectors and the speeding up of administrative procedures in all administrations. The Basque Government has proposals, goes hand in hand with the sector, knows the problems, is involved. And there will be an assessment of public policies in case they need to be changed and modified. We are not prepared to maintain them because of the pruritus that has been raised by the Government itself. They shall be evaluated and therefore maintained or amended. But I believe that the serious path is that of the inter-institutional table at the hands of the sectors most affected by this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief of Investigation, Congressmen, good morning to all of you. A special welcome to those who have come for service and trade, and to those who, as I have said, are following the contests of their establishments or of their homes. First of all, I, Mr. Casanova, must thank you for bringing this debate here today. I am sure that the department itself, the chief physician, will take all the points you have proposed, and those which are within its function, in order to see whether they can be put into action or not. You have been long and broad in the motion you have brought with you, and I believe that several points on it do not accord particularly with this or that department, but with others, and in many cases with many other institutions. I think you pretended, somehow... I honestly, uh, appreciate what you're bringing. I am not as pleased as you have done; I think you have made regulations to try to get there as soon as possible by saying that "the situation is urgent", "the measures must be taken now", "this Government has done nothing"..., and you have not even had the detail of waiting – to present this motion or the previous motion – for the councillor to come to present the master lines of his department, in which, probably, with other exits to the problem, the diagnosis can be shared and then, when one is already aware of these situations, it is much easier to reach agreements than when it is done beforehand. In any case, I too am convinced that the situation is urgent. We were talking about it yesterday at the counselor's appearance, weren't we? We live at a time when we have to discern very well what is urgent, what is important. And at this moment we must swell our teeth without delay to what is urgent, but without losing sight of what is important in any case, because it is not only about saving the present from our trade and our hospitality, which is basically what your motion was about today, but also preparing it for situations that may come in the future, right? I don't think I'm going to explain it to you again; the spokesmen who have been before me have explained themselves very well, it's clear that the virus has left our financial tissue in a grave situation, and that the host, where we're socialized, has upset the host. And I think yesterday it was quite clear that in this Chamber, at least, we all or almost all, and in a great measure agree. The problem is, when they propose solutions to get out of it, and especially when they propose solutions to the water without first hearing it or saying what it has to say? Zuk, Casanova jauna, behintzat, gaur ére diskurtsoa pixka bat suabeagotu duzu, baina presa faltsu bategatik hasten zinen, ezta?: "No, it is that this government, in this government, has done nothing in recent months". You're a filmmaker and you usually remind us of movie scenes many times in this House, I used to remind myself a little bit of that scene of..., I remembered this week of the Loretta of the last legislature. And I was saying, why do I have Loretta in my head, why do I have Loretta? Until I saw Loretta with John Cleese next door, in a dark room, saying, "What have the Romans done for us? Nothing, nothing, the Romans have done nothing; well, the aqueduct. Well, apart from the aqueduct, what have the Romans done? Nothing, nothing; well, the sewers." And that's how a long, long, long list starts to come out, isn't it? This is a little bit the same. Mr. Casanova says: "What has the government done these months? Nothing"; he says: "Well, apart from what was already there, the Basque Government has raised EUR 15 million through Lanbide, 60% of which has been directed at the people in the sectors that we are dealing with today, right?" Well, apart from Lanbide's help, what has the Basque government done? The Basque Government has done nothing"; it says: "Well, apart from that, 8 million in ordinary aid adapted to the new circumstances"; "Well, apart from Lanbide and 8 million in ordinary aid, the Basque Government has done nothing"; "Well, also in coordination with other institutions, it has put 5.7 million euros – I think they were – out of a total of 9, of which it is expected to generate an impact of 26, right? In addition to an increase in subsidies, associations, federations, platforms, etc., etc., but, of course, "the Romans", "the Romans" for us have never done anything. They say we're late. Of course, less bad. We'd be much better off if we had made the election when we were told by their head pandemiologists, right? That they would have been, I don't know, last week, the past... We would be much better and much more willing to face the pandemic. In any case, this is the time to resist, to push, to help ensure that the serious consequences of the pandemic can be limited to the maximum, but it is also the time to have a long look, as I said, to face the future. It is time to take decisions in coordination, in cooperation, in continuous dialogue, with all the institutions to avoid duplication and to fine-tune the shared goal of saving the sector. It is time for structural measures, to support the competitiveness of businesses and to support the maintenance of business structures. Steps must be taken to promote the liquidity of businesses and, above all, to avoid the destruction of employment. We must build consumer confidence and activate local consumption. The commitment must start with oneself, with one; it must be individual and then social. And from an institutional point of view, decisions must be taken on taxation, on taxes, on lost in-depth aid, on approved credits that will enable the sector to survive, on rents, on leases, on administrative procedures, etc., etc., etc., but from the realism, the capacity of each administration and with the sole objective of trying to accompany the sector in a loyal way. Because you know, Mr Casanova, that these measures, including all those that you have brought here today, are not only dependent on the Department of Consumer Affairs, Tourism and Commerce, but not even on the Basque Government. That is why, in the opinion of our group, the meeting of the inter-institutional bureau that has convened the Sailburu for next week is a good thing. You have brought us measures with an unlimited budget, aimed not only at the sectors we are dealing with today, but at all the self-employed, which makes me think that you know that what you propose, in the strict terms in which you put it in your motion, is impossible to comply with. You have not come today to seek an agreement, but to ask for an impossible so that you can shield yourself before third parties in our "no". And to me – you know – I don't care if he comes and makes the trap of making the motion for, the interpellation, forgiveness, and then making the motion to come running here to get ahead of the counselor... I don't care. I do not even care that you bring us proposals today that exceed not only the capacity of this government, but that of any other – I am afraid –. I don't care if he cheats on us. I don't care if he cheats on them and cheats on them, on these gentlemen who are up here. Those, I'm worried that I'm cheating on them, that I'm trying to make them believe that this thing that you bring us here is feasible, that it creates a feeling of false hope that only leads to frustration, that's all we need in the fight against the pandemic. Because, moreover, they do not need false paternalisms; these people are hard, these people spend the night without sleeping thinking about the future of their business and of their people and, yet, they get up every morning, as they said yesterday, to take more hours than Captain Thunder to face their future and maintain the employment of their workers. They do not need warm cloths or false expectations; they need the truth, to face reality, to have spaces in which they can bring their solutions and their point of view, and to work with certainties, if any certainty can be had in these times. And because it is our people, it is our family, it is our friends and friends, it is our people, we will continue to work for and with them, for Igor, for Joseba, for Arkaitz, for the Piru, for Aran, for Ane, for Aitor, for Rodriguez, for Telle, for all of them and they, we will continue to work to help them from our individual, collective and political commitment, with the truth ahead. And, indeed, though we are in a great strait, yet we shall advance and make ready decisions in so many states: In the state of the county, in tribute, in taxes, in service, to support the loans, rents, transfers...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u52	Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u53	...and a long one to save the host. And we'll do it. And, really, Mr. Casanova, we would expect you to travel that way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u54	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Passing over to the band that hasn't run any corrections, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u55	Good morning, everyone. The hospitality does not live in uncertainty, but in the certainty of bankruptcy. It was time for this subject to be discussed here; it was time to account for the condemnation of the ruin which, without eating it or drinking it, forced the sectors of commerce and tourism to accept it. But even worse are the attacks on hospitality, which have become a scapegoat. They don't understand, and we don't understand many. We welcome many of the measures put forward here by all the parliamentary groups in the opposition, but, given the new reality of Basque politics, it seems that Parliament is simply ornamental: the measures are taken by some and the remains are respected. If it were the political class that was seen in this extreme situation, it would not have taken more than half a year to gather here to try to resolve the situation. Politics has a slow pace. Citizenship, in general, understands this, but, in this case, it is unacceptable. Yesterday, the Hurtado advisor remembered his plans and programs to get out of the situation, and what was everyone's surprise when we discovered that things are still going to take longer. They reminded us of the measures already taken and invited us to wait for the creation of an interdepartmental table to give new aid, which will meet... Next week! We can't understand, listen. I run a business and I can tell you, in the first person, what is the situation of absolute uncertainty in which we all find ourselves. The case of hoteliers is even worse, and it is because there is no information, there is no dialogue; what there is is one-way decision-making and slow, very slow. Gentlemen of the Government, they speak of two times: resistance and impulse. Okay. But we have the patient in the ICU, he needs the medication now. In the crisis it is as important how as when. It's not a whim of opposition, it really isn't. The panorama is desolating, there will be no impulse to give if the patient does not arrive alive in February. However, don't miss the pin of the 2030 Agenda. Don't you realize this whole thing has been flying through the air? Our measures are based on a basic principle of resistance, but we are very honest: either you make it clear where we are going or it all goes the same. Neither the opposition can take proper action, nor can employers predict what will happen from now on. Returning to what the counselor said yesterday – he said, "We'll see how to deal with the issue of rents" – the question, gentlemen of the government, is simple: do you put the money on the table or not? It turns out that there is money for pharaonic works – for the greater glory of the PNV – such as the TAV. 30 million euros as a containment dam for the crisis, 30 million euros that this Parliament, let us be serious, spends on a daily basis. Either we take the bull by the horns and try to really resist, or we engage in institutional advertising by saying that we are going to save their lives, knowing that it is not. Put the resources on top of the table, or the rest, as I said, is propaganda. Finally, I cannot do anything other than regret that appeal that we saw yesterday to individual responsibility to get citizens to buy in small trade in front of large platforms, such as Amazon, because they don't pay taxes. I will be clear: either the conditions are equal to us, or there is nothing to do. With voluntarism we do nothing, absolutely nothing. Haven't you learned anything from the COVID-19 crisis? A trader needs at least 30 % of the profit margin of its products to survive. You can do absolutely nothing against the 12 that Amazon plays with. What is the proposal, do you look at consumers so that they do not see that small trade is not competitive? Calling for individual responsibility? Propaganda again. In Vox we want to play with the same laws, play with the same possibilities; we do not ask for crumbs, we ask for equal opportunities, not by whim, but by conviction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u56	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Hernandez... From here?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u57	Thank you, Mrs. President. Well, different spokesmen have already made a diagnosis or a small diagnosis about the impact of the health crisis on the trade, tourism and hospitality sectors, businesses of all kinds that are suffering from severe hardship these months because of the crisis caused by the pandemic, and sectors in which we also know that they are suffering from the crisis in a special way and in a way, we say, "specific", also because of the particular condition that they have the necessary measures to reduce social contact and also mobility, which, as we know, have had to harden this week – although the feeling that some people were transmitting to us, not so many days ago, was that in Basque things were not so bad – and this is going to be a new blow also in these economic sectors, a "specific" blow. We can share – and we do share – that the defence of public health and life should not be opposed to the defence of economic activity generating wealth, always on the basis that health and life are the fundamental thing, in a debate that has also been there these months, in society, but this is valid regardless of the economic sector we are talking about. If it is important to cut off the transmission of the virus in bars, restaurants or other leisure-related establishments – which is, it is also important to do so in other places, such as public transport, where we think it is not being done in the same way and where we think that, perhaps, these sectors see a comparative aggravation. On the bus, to put an example, in which we can come from Donostia to Gasteiz on Thursday full day, we usually come, let me the expression, like canned sardines – mask yes, but not safe distance. Of course, no hydrogels and, of course, no reduced weights. We say this because we believe that the feeling that those who live in commerce and hospitality sometimes convey to us that the measures taken to cut off the transmission of the virus are very focused or directly related to leisure, assuming for these sectors a greater harm than for others, should be addressed, in our opinion, not only through our declaratory support for those sectors, as reflected in the last point of the amendment by the groups that support the Government – go ahead and we share that statement – but must be supplemented, first, by measures that avoid this feeling of possible discrimination – for example, having the same level of demand in public transport security measures – and, second, and it is the debate that we have today on this point, with concrete and powerful measures of support to ensure that, even in this complicated situation, they will not be dropped, measures that are undoubtedly passed on by direct aid, but also by actions aimed at maintaining a certain capacity of consumption directed, in particular, to local trade and hospitality, for which we will not be left behind by other sectors of wages and sectors that are left behind. We believe that this is the best recipe for those who live in commerce, hospitality or tourism to feel some relief and for measures to cut off the transmission of the virus, which so directly affect them, to be better understood by society and by those who live directly in these sectors. The measures necessary to ensure public health affect all sectors, but we know that those designed to reduce mobility and social contact are having a direct and specific impact on trade, tourism and hospitality, and that action must be taken. If health claims lead us to a necessary scenario that has a very specific impact on trade, tourism and hospitality, it is logical to enable concrete measures that prevent those impacts that lead us to a scenario where someone can interpret that the defense of public health and the defense of the economy in these sectors are in conflict. This means not dropping jobs, not dropping self-employed people and businesses who face difficulties of real continuity. The important measures put in place by the Spanish Government in this regard have, in our view, prevented a total disaster during the first wave of the pandemic; yet there are not a few small, medium-sized and self-employed enterprises that have been forced to close down definitively. And in the face of this second wave, all the measures that have been taken to date must at least be strengthened. From my parliamentary group, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, we have been very critical – you know – in relation to the aid to the self-employed set up by Lanbide, because things did not go well and had to be corrected some rather sluggish issues. We have already said it in its day, but we do not want to go back on this to turn it into a political weapon in the middle of this second wave. My group may be more or less critical, I also explained it yesterday at the Councillor's appearance, more or less critical with the measures taken by the Basque Government in recent months in relation to this issue, and it is also about the amounts earmarked for aid, but, beyond the debate on whether the amount of money devoted by the department to supporting these sectors in this situation has been much or little, beyond the debate on whether the Basque Government has done it right, wrong or regular, what should be at least a common denominator between the Government and the opposition groups is that it is necessary to redouble efforts to save the largest number of jobs in these sectors. And when I talk about jobs, on this occasion, I am not referring exclusively to wage earners. The short-term forecasts – as has already been said – are not flattering for the sectors of commerce, tourism and hospitality, so it is vital for their subsistence to scale up the measures that are aimed at alleviating the difficulties they are enduring, because this second wave, which is already here, can be the definitive blow for many. The initiative before us, which brings Euskal Herria Bildu to the debate, certainly proposes, in our view, to redouble efforts in this direction and, moreover, to give concrete concrete form to how to do so. That is why our group has not made any amendments and is going to vote in the affirmative. We understand as positive the measures proposed, beyond the fact that some seem more necessary to us than others or that we can talk about the different amounts that could be allocated to each other. I am not going to hide that in this matter we would have liked an agreement between those who bring the initiative and the groups that support the Government: I would have wanted to say, we understand, that an initiative should be agreed to improve the support that these sectors need in the face of the impact of the crisis, although it would not have been in the terms, quantities, etc. proposed by Mr Casanova. It is true that the PNV and the Socialist Party are presenting an amendment that talks about increasing aid economically through the various existing programmes; we welcome this. They are also talking about launching new programmes in this regard and studying with other institutions, other measures, forgiveness, support for the sectors we are talking about; we also welcome this from our group. But it is no less true that they do not specify what this increase should be like and do not set the direction of the new aid. That is why we believe that the difference between the two options, that of the proposing group and that of the groups supporting the Government, lies in the realization of the aid. Our group, too, knows that it has always been in favour of giving concrete expression to the messages sent by Parliament to the Basque Government in the form of non-legislative proposals or, in this case, motions. It is true that the amendment by the groups supporting the Government does not include matters which seem particularly critical to us and which also points in a direction which does not seem to us to be contradictory to what Mr Casanova has brought us today. But, of course, and once we have not tabled our own amendment from our group, we will of course be left with an initiative that concretely sets out the measures. I do not know whether Mr Casanova's initiative has been carried out "by flying feathers", as Mrs Corcuera has said, or from a somewhat naive or naive voluntarism; I do not think so, because I know Mr Casanova and his concerns and his previous work in this Parliament. But, in any case, I have had Mr Grajales' speech more on "fly feathers" because of some of the issues he has mentioned, but I am not going to go into it because, as I say, his amendment does not seem to us to have anything particularly critical, but does not make the measures concrete. So we are going to take advantage of it today too, although I said it in some way yesterday also to the councillor – I am sure I will not be upset because I refer to it even if it is a debate between groups –: one of the main arguments they raise, especially what Mrs Corcuera has put forward, is that we have to do things in a coordinated way, that we have to wait, that we have to evaluate. We heard it yesterday from the counselor, "we have to assess what has been done so far." All right, we certainly do not oppose that, but we did want to send you this message: the measures taken for the first wave, both those of the Government of Spain and those of the Basque Government, have been able to have their impact and will have to be valued, but that impact of the first wave in these sectors is still acting hard on them and we have the second wave here. Therefore, even if it is not generally good advice to hurry, we believe that there is urgency in this matter, and we ask you for urgency in this matter. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u58	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u59	Good morning again. Firstly, and in relation to the representative of the People's Party, I would like to say that, despite the fact that you have stated that you are going to abstain in the vote on our motion, we, ourselves, are going to vote in favour of your motion. In fact, when I read your amendment, I thought that "I wouldn't have done it better." In fact, it gives the impression that I have made 95% of your amendment. In any case, even if something is missing, I believe that the corpus that remains is sufficiently representative of the idea we put forward to vote in favour. And on the property tax. Man, that's 700,000 euros, excluding the usual housing. I believe that those people who have more than €700,000 in wealth, in addition to housing, do not need help; they need to be congratulated because they have done well in life in economic terms, but they do not need help. It is neither animate nor anything like it, simply the need for aid, support, benefits to be concentrated on the people in need. And Galapagar's house, which he mentioned, does not pay any property tax or anything because you take it away in Madrid, that is, there is no discussion there. Mr. Grajales, let's see. The French say that cheese is a complement to a good meal and the supplement to a bad one, but you can't say the same about Brian's life. Don't take Brian's life appointments in vain. If you have a good argument and want to end it with Brian's life, do it, but don't try to hide your argumental deficiency with those quotes, because it doesn't look good, it doesn't look good. You know why? Because you're not just debating with me today and you're not debating here with people who may not know what the subject is about in detail. You are also debating, because you are listening here and out of here, with people directly affected. And yes, I'm going to give you another movie date, by Groucho Marx: Who are the self-employed and the hoteliers going to believe, to you or to your own eyes? To you or to your current accounts? What it says, "the Romans, if they've given us millions..." That rain of millions, do you think it's serious to come this far to talk about that? If you believe that it has not been possible to contribute more, say it; if you believe that there is no budgetary margin, say it; if you believe that priorities are others, say it. But don't say they've contributed enough to meet the needs of the self-employed and the hospitality industry, because they're listening to the people who are dying in economic terms. What will they think of you? You're going to think, then, that all the rest of you who have said that I propose things that are not competition, that I cheat, that I deceive people... Well, they're gonna think it's a lie, just like the rest of your argument. It is a common place to say that, of course, all that EH Bildu proposes are birds and flowers, that serious are you, only you know how to rule, that the rest are dreams, that we try to deceive people, to create false expectations... Nafarroa, 2,200 euros per self-employed person. Unlimited, unlimited. With the Socialist Party ruling. Do you know what your party did when we presented this proposal to the Standing Committee? To say that it was repetitive, because we had already talked about the issue of self-government, and to prevent it from being debated. 2,200 euros for everyone, unlimited. Are they dreams, too? It is in force and has been paid, not like you who decided to apply a limited item. Of the proposal, I suppose they will vote in favour... – I do not think I have convinced you, although I have tried to do so – you will vote in favour of your amendment and therefore that amendment will be adopted. An amendment that talks about the programmes, to increase as much as possible... – "as far as possible" can be a euro, can be 100 million euros –, analyze and evaluate, coordinate, evaluate, study, continue to collaborate... Of this amendment and of yesterday's appearance of the Councillor, the concrete and material proposals to increase support for hospitality are summarized in this: zero euros today. We do not know what the Interinstitutional Commission will do next week, in which, by the way, they have invented a new body, which are the three municipalities of the capitals, to exclude EUDEL, will not be that something of a plurality is snuffed out in these kinds of commissions that you like so much. You are doing this to yourself, obviating not only EUDEL, but also Parliament and industry representatives, who seem to have neither a voice nor a vote on these issues. You have decided today to increase the amount of aid for self-employment by EUR zero. And no traps, no shortcuts... Do you think the sector cares when the counselor came or stopped coming here? What matters to the sector, which was slowly dying three weeks ago, and is beginning to quickly agonise now, is the materialisation of concrete aid. I don't know what's going to be decided next week. Maybe the plan's going to work out a lot, and I'd love to, but I don't know anything. And I think these people need security, they need guarantees, because their life is in danger. He's in a very serious situation. And you can't answer them with parliamentary tricks, or with the flow of words, or with abstract things, or clapping your hands on your back. These need help, and they come out without help from the disputes which have been in this day and week.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u60	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Popular-Citizens Tale. The andrea andrea, the vulture gives hitza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u61	Thank you. I will start by talking about the amendment of the PNV and the PSE. You want to keep it created so far. Haven't you noticed it hasn't worked? Have you not noticed that there are already many hotels and shops that have closed down? And, without resounding words, and I will be very clear: we are talking about the dish of beans that have to be brought to the mouth by thousands of families. That studies and reports are not going to pay for their food or housing, and less for the salaries of the workers who may be in charge of them. Of course these people are hard, of course it's hard, but, actually, the truth is, if they want, they can be helped to keep their business. What happens is there's no real will. We don't lose so many millions in reports, in studies, in thinking... Now the urgent thing is that these people don't have to close the blind forever. "When you see your neighbor's beards cut, put your beards to soak," and yesterday we listened to French President Macron, confining the population again, with more severe measures, because the curfew didn't work. Well, fear makes me stop being predictors for what I can get here. I hope we don't have another confinement like there was in March! But what are the forecasts we have to maintain our trade, our hospitality and our self-employed? Because, of course, it looks like we're talking "to past bull." By now we should be predicting, we should be receiving applications for help for the self-employed, and it turns out that we are talking about "let's see what we do next week and what we say next week..." And these people have to eat every day, and these people have to open their business every day, because, if they want to continue with the business, if they want to stay, they have to do it. But where are you? Let's be foresight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u63	Yes, thank you, President. Look, Mr Casanova, the Socialists fully share the reflection that yesterday was given to us by the Councillor for Tourism, Commerce and Consumption – in a session in which Vox was not present, and we regret not being able to listen to him, because yesterday he did not take the floor when he was not present – but I wanted to tell him that the Government is working from the reality, and in contact and, moreover, in alliance with the hospitality sector, the tourism sector and the trade sector. And that's undeniable, and from day one. Since the first day, work has been done – since the first day of the pandemic, I mean, and since the state of alarm – work has been done with the most affected sectors as soon as it was declared. We have been in the Permanent Chamber, dealing with support measures for the most affected sectors, including: hospitality, tourism and trade. Therefore, nothing that has been said here is alien to us. How not to share a diagnosis of the gravity of the situation! But you can't say there's been "zero euros," because that's lying. That's lying. And from the very beginning, when the Spanish Government adopts, through the Social Dialogue Bureau, the issue of the ERTEs, the extension of the ERTEs is adopted with the social partners, and the Basque Government adopts the complement of the ERTEs and the extension of this complement of ERTE, it cannot be said that a euro has not been put in. It cannot be said that a euro has not been set since that, from yesterday to today, when it comes to 30 million euros: 15 in extraordinary aid, 60% of which goes to the tourism sectors... No, no, that's not yesterday. That's not yesterday. Aid isn't consumed in a single day, is it? The 15 million (60%) targeted – that 15 million extra aid – to the hospitality sector and the trade sector is for 5,400 businesses in the trade and hospitality sector. And don't cheat on me. You bring here a proposal that could have had 15 more points, 15 more points. What I'm surprised is that he stayed at 12. And you know that when you want to agree, you come to agreements with the Socialist Group. Yes, Mr. Casanova. You know that you bring a proposal to look good, to say that you are an alternative to not knowing very well what, but that is not the truth of what is happening. And the frankness and truth of what is happening is that the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs is putting more than 30 million on the table to try to alleviate, as far as possible, these very bad circumstances for the tourism, trade and hospitality sectors. And they may not be enough – the counselor himself said yesterday –; surely they are not enough. The situation since Monday is not the same as last Thursday. It's not the same, it's other circumstances. Further measures will therefore have to be put in place. And for that, the Interinstitutional Bureau is essential. And don't be mistaken, Mrs. Larrea, we're not moving the matter over time... I think it was you – if not, I'm sorry – who said that action is moving over time. This is because next week that table meets, five technical tables are created for matters that really matter and matter to those people who are in the business, hospitality sector. Because we're in the resistance phase. Because we are convinced that business must be maintained. Because we are convinced that jobs must be maintained. Because if we don't do it, if we don't get this phase of resistance right, there won't be any chance of doing the phase of reactivation, impulse and dynamism. It'll be impossible. And no one more interested in these sectors recovering, in a certain way, a certain status of their activity, than the Tourism, Commerce and Consumers Councilor, who attends the meetings of the Labi, to find out and to give an understanding of the concerns, the needs that these sectors have, which are of the most affected. He is the interlocutor between the sector or sectors and those who attend to restrictive measures to deal with the health crisis. Therefore, no one here is crossed by arms. Here's putting everyone's meat in the roaster. We are ready to amend proposals, we are ready to hear ideas and, therefore, we are ready to come out among all, among all and from the hands of the sectors concerned, to get ahead of this one which is falling and which we do not know how it will end. But, of course, let no one be deceived; here we are working on concrete proposals on the table. Nothing we're inventing, nothing we're leaving at the dawn of "we'll see what happens." No, no, no. Here we are working, within what is possible, with certain certainties and with many guarantees. Because that's what the Basque Government is for, and that's what the public policies with which the advisor and the group that supports it – and I also believe that Basque Nationalists – are for, to make those policies of progress and of maintaining the activity of very affected sectors. Our solidarity. They count on us; if there is any question that they think they need to talk about, we are at their full disposal – they know it in advance, but I say it from this rostrum. We know that the Councillor is usually meeting with you, but to the extent that you need the Socialist Party and the Socialist Group, you can count on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u65	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. "Sorry if I call you gentlemen, but I don't know you too well," that's Groucho's too. Or the one that said, "Cite me saying that I have been misquoted", which is what Mr Casanova has just done, to turn back to what I have said, perhaps precisely because he lacks arguments to defend the seriousness of his proposal. I don't know if it was Groucho's also one that says, "If you're able to keep talking continuously, you'll end up with something nice, something fun, and people will end up laughing." Well, it's not the case, it's not the case, Mr. Casanova. Look, I have not said at any time, I have not said at any time that with the money that this government has been able to make, with the help of Lanbide, with the extra aid, we have come to everything and that the situation is wonderful, no. I said we were on a premise that you weren't telling the truth, and it was that this government had done nothing. No, this government has been doing all this time. Another thing is that you don't like it. And I believe that the amendment that we made to you is sufficiently clear when it says in its first point that by 2021, one, two, three, four, five plans that are already under way are going to – let's say – see their budget increased, when we are asking the government to increase, to pull out new lines of help, to look for any kind of collaboration with other institutions in order to improve the situation. Because the measures that you brought here today – and to that you have not answered me either – do they have to do with this department? No, no, Only three out of twelve. Some have to do with others; others have to do with other institutions. What? What? What do you ask me? For action is being taken; that next week the institutions concerned will be brought together; that here we do not toast to the sun, that here we work. Mr Hernández said: "The proposal is not concrete". I promise you that our proposal will be implemented in the activities of the Government and in the budgets of 2021. And he says, "I'm going to vote for Mr. Casanova today because Mr. Casanova is known in this House for how seriously he takes things and how he works them." The other day, Mr Casanova explained his initiative at a press conference. The journalist's first question was: "Have you valued how much these concrete measures involve, how much they represent, and where is that money going to be drawn from?" Because you already know that budgets are not – this is what I add –...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u66	Mr. Grakiles, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u67	... budgets are not expansive, budgets are what they are. This whole making up pranks, as you're saying right now, from the seat, and so on, it's pretty complicated. Do you know what Mr. Casanova's answer was? He says, "No, we haven't done that calculation, but we assume that with two or three kilometers of TAV would be enough." Exactly as Mrs de Vox has just put it. I mean, is this serious, saying "let's take..."? And if we take out 50, then look; and if we take out... and if we don't... Well, we tie the country up and we have it perfect, don't we? But even having high-speed trains could also help trade, tourism, as have other infrastructures to which these ladies and gentlemen have historically opposed. In any case, it's okay, Mr. Casanova, I don't take Brian's life in vain. In fact, I am convinced that you are the "messiah," and I understand that very much because I have followed several. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u68	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Myst. Mrs Martínnez. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u69	I'm doing it from the seat. Gentlemen of the Government, Mr Hurtado, after listening to the PNV in your presentation, it seems that they have been sharing happiness with the sector. A lot of help is going to be distributed. I tell you one thing: go to the street and ask a store, a hosteller, whether the help you promise and have promised has arrived to you. I assure you, you'll have some sad news. Moreover, counselor, I lend myself to go with you and see the result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u70	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. We represent the Podemos-IU team together. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u71	I simply speak a little out of courtesy – although some may find it curious – with the People's Party, because I have not explained in my previous speech what we think of its amendment, to which we have been doubting whether we are going to vote in favour or abstain, because it is true, as has already been said, that it is an amendment almost identical to the one tabled by the proposing group, but one of the differences that Mrs Larrea has raised is precisely with the issue of excluding from those aid those who have had to pay the property tax, an issue with which we were in agreement, but which, moreover, in her explanation, Mrs Larrea, seemed to me to understand that, rather than being against including this issue, she proposed another way of doing so, including several tax periods. And I want to say this because, well, we are finally going to vote in favour of your amendment as well. In fact, we agree with that, but in this it draws attention to the fact that, with so little difference, you have not also been able to agree between two opposition groups. It is true that we did not make an amendment, but it seems to us that, as we sometimes feel too much ideology in our positions, in our speeches, we feel that there is something worse here, that there are still vetoes between political groups not to present a compromise amendment where they practically agree. We shall, however, vote in favour of your amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u72	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. After the discussion, we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Casanova Alonso's motion. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary is 41; the abscesssion, 7; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u73	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the full-line correction of the Basque Groups of Populars. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters 34; the opponents 41; the contrary, the abstainations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u74	Integer correction not allowed. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the assembly, 42; 75; 41; the contrary, 28; the Absences; 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u75	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. I'm going to give you a five-minute break right now to let the new air get in. The meeting was interrupted at twelve o'clock in the afternoon. At twelve o'clock in the morning, and twenty-two o'clock again began the meeting.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u76	Well, I'm out of my mind. Five point in theme list: "In the same manner as the Parliamentary Podemos-IU, with regard to the measures of association in the area of the apartment. To discuss and to decide once and for all." It's the caller's turn. Together, Monsieur Martínion, representing the Podemos-IU team, has the word to present and defend itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u77	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President, Congressman. When I got up today and breakfasted, I opened Facebook in my cell, and I got a video of my own, but about three years ago, a video of the same day as October 2017, and we discussed just that day the former member of the Maider Odager Othar. I think, as today, that it was a constructive proposition, in this case, about the development of the law, and in this case, whether it be necessary, or at least convenient, to create a new service, and to create a new co-ordination. We are discussing these two propositions, curious, on the same day, but on the same side of three years, and, well, some of the speakers also repeat them on this point. Bi ekimen horiek Gobernua sustangatzen duten bi alderdien ezezkoa izango dute, bathe, well, gure partitik – this beast such as batzuen partitik sureu aski ere bai–, jarraituko dugu proposed wasikitzaileak Egyptian. I am also saying this by distinguishing the proposals they are building from those they are trying to destroy. We believe that, although we have not reached an agreement, this is a construction proposal. The problem of housing, evictions and rental launches has worsened in recent years. In Euskadi there are 3,430 families who have been evicted in the last three years. 1,043 in 2019: 806 of them were derived from the Urban Leases Act, i.e. from rents, compared to 165 that resulted from the execution of a mortgage. That is the great drama of housing right now: the price and speculation in the rental sector. Moreover, we are now facing an economic crisis as a result of a health crisis. And, despite this suspension of evictions during the first state of alarm and during the first confinement, many households are now suffering significant income losses, have lost their jobs and are, in many cases, at risk of losing their homes. According to the General Council of Judicial Power, 233 evictions were carried out in Euskadi during the first three months of 2020. This crisis is going to fall back on the backs of the most vulnerable families, who have also suffered more rigorously from the pandemic and the measures of confinement, because, we say again, it is not the same as the confinement in a large house than in a more humble house, and this only makes it clear that we need to help and, above all, to protect the thousands of families who have been affected by this crisis, by the increasingly large rents, which involve an ever greater effort and which they often have to decide between paying rent or paying basic services and food. According to the report of the housing market in Spain between the year 14 and 19, the Banco de España, Bilbao and Donostia were among the four cities in the state that exceeded the ratio between the average rent price and the annual household income in more than 1.5 times the median of all provincial capitals. Gasteiz was also above average. If we go to prices, in Biscay we have a price of 1,11 euros; in Gipuz, 1100, and araban, 860. I should say, that the development of the housing market, and especially in this problem of speculative activity produced by the commercial rate of rentage for the last few years, the euscal administration has spread some of the devices and policies which depend on certain organisms, as we acknowledged in Exodus 2017, and which we now confess to, though at the same time, as we believe many of our users are scattered, families are hard to exercise on these devices and politics in many cases: There are cases where there are difficulties in finding the right speaker in public administrations. On the one hand, there is a system of general and intermediary information of the rent and the community of the owners, which is placed in the representatives of the United States, and is in the housing department; then within the Department of Justice, we have a service for the maintenance of mortgages and families, and on the other hand there is some general information about the mortgages and leases on the continent, and also for the service of the intermediary and arbitration. We think that makes it very difficult to give effective attention to those who require immediate response in a very difficult moment of their lives. We believe that an administration that seeks to guarantee the right to housing has – and we have a powerful housing law to do so – we believe that we need to make the services that are being provided as much as possible. That's why, at this point, it's also up to us, well, to regret that... We believe that we have made an effort to get closer from our initial proposal – we were directly proposing, as in 2017, the creation of an office or a unified service, a single window service, we can look for the name we want; we have lowered that claim; we have made a proposal to get closer to the government, in that proposal, to carry out an assessment of the different policies that I have described – surely some of the people who are going to happen to me in the word will also talk about them – to make an assessment of how these services are working – we said a month, but also, of course, we were open, if it is to negotiate the deadline, to reach an agreement – and that this assessment, in addition – and so that they are not words of Elkarrekin Podemos-IU – would include proposals for improvement by the Housing Department itself, by Kontsumbide, by the Department of Justice, ultimately by the Basque Government. In addition, in order to have the same, perhaps, or more or less empirical, economic, legal, legislative reasons, we told the Government to study, to make a study to study the feasibility of the single window within the housing sector, to include, in addition, within that study, a memory of services, economic and personnel. And that is, well, that I introduced it to this Basque Parliament and that we discussed among all groups whether or not to create this service. It wasn't possible. It's another lost choice, I think, when we're working together, in this Chamber, between the Basque and the opposition teams, but, well, we'll continue to make sure the right of the housing is made, and then we're on the subject, like that big deal we've made, I think we've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u78	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u79	Hello, good morning, everyone. We've seen it well together in order to form a joint service for the housing alarm by the Podemos-Itareuda Unideda. As you were saying just now, there are several services, especially those which are divided into three departments (the home life in the Department of Justice and the Consuls), and it seems to us that it is quite natural to unite these separate services. For in the HUDal Department the HUDIBRA offers the intermediary work, especially in the department of rent, DIVERSAL between owners and tenants; in the Department of Justice, there is a service offered in the administration of Hippoctects, in the housing where there is trouble between the owners and financial entities, and lastly in the Consulum Department, the intermediary is offered in the contract and in the contracts of property, especially when there is trouble in the contractes of the contract, I don't know how to offer clausiblesbours and aids in such matters. And it seems to us, people, when families are in danger of going out, when they are in danger of losing the house, they can't be going through several windows. And we think it's quite reasonable to pay attention to people in such a vulnerable situation in a single window, don't we? I believe that it must be one of the objects of the administration in all the circumstances in which they are placed, but especially in these cases, to facilitate things, and to apply them to the principle of a single viewport. This is why we have not introduced a full correction to the proposition, and we have added a few shades to it. For instance, we thought it important to clear up that service is free and custom. We thought it was important to notice that it should be used for both rent and property housing cases. We have added that, as to the tasks of this new service, it may also serve, after having lost the house, if the families exist in vulnerable circumstances and close to social exclusion, and also to help us to make us understand how social preparations are required to assist us. And finally, some other shade, for example, the reminder service would require a proper and suitable plantilage, as well as a quantity of quality. And lastly, that in the townships, as well as in the aldunities, there may be some such kind of counselal service at any moment, that this new service should be placed, should be connected with the like services as may be in local administrations. And that was our contribution. Of the reasons we have seen, the Prena has not been very well understood. We think he's answered something else. And the correction which has been shown or expressed from the government, we believe that they have been answered in general. And I think, as has been said, that the proposition is a builder, and that an attempt has been made to reach a medium, well, inspirations descending, and yet it has not been possible. We hope from now on that such a projecting proposal will be agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u80	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Companals Popular Group-Ciudadnos's representative. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u81	That I'll be around you, brunette, because... Do you know why? For because in Euskadi it is not resolved because – I said it a couple of weeks ago here – resources have been dedicated to VPO homes on sale and that has been a huge failure, because differences have been generated between those who touched the lottery of the VPO draw and those who did not. But I'm not gonna repeat myself in this. For us it is important to allocate resources to direct content, i.e. forgiveness, to the direct task, i.e. to the citizens. By inflating the administration more with chiringuitos..., that yes, which you are going to tell me, you will tell me that it is to advise and accompany families who are in serious situation and at risk of losing their home, but won't it be better to allocate every penny and build rental homes or mobilize private homes to rent them to those who have difficulty paying for their home or simply to access a home? We have heard a number of occasions the councillor breastfeed with rent subsidies for those who do not access public rental housing and have needs for the payment of their housing. Well, gentlemen, what I propose is that, instead of letting families lose their homes, we act urgently so that, as soon as we detect that someone is having a problem with paying rent for their home, we have to intervene, intervene before they take it away. Let us not allow the eviction to take place out of default. Let us help him pay what is a subjective right, housing, until they do their homework well and we have a public housing park that supports and shelters all those people who have difficulty accessing market rentals. Moreover, I want to talk about something that our group is concerned about and I think that some here too: how are we going to turn around the population pyramid if we have a basic problem like that of housing? On this subject, I will speak on another occasion, which we will have safe time. Why have I seen myself in the need to create another unified housing entity? Because most citizens go to basic social services. And I want to thank all the workers of basic social services, who have been squeezing and breaking their heads for a few years, working to convey the needs of citizens who are losing their homes or who are in danger of losing their homes. And about the GNP that you bring here today, you will not count on our support because we cannot inflate the administrations with structures that supplant the work of the private ones, such as the real estate agencies, the justice services, that for those who do not have resources are the lawyers ex officio, even the social workers and the social workers of the basic services already have a lot of career in this, and they support them, and they help them, and I even take into account that there are public administrations, such as the municipalities, that use their legal services to help those who are in these difficulties, and I am talking about the city of Irun. We already have a Basque entity to arbitrate with the conflicts between tenants and owners (Bizilagun) – the representative of Bildu has appointed him. That's where the alarm pops: "a tenant can't cope with the rent." Let's not let it get to the courts. We have sufficient mechanisms to deal with our citizens in trouble. Let us inform those who have difficulties. Many people do not know that they can go to basic social services to explain their situation; let's speed up the procedures. If we have to reinforce something, it is these basic social services so that, foreseeing the situation that is coming through the economic crisis, we are prepared, because you know, and will not catch us new, that many ERTE will become ERE and many people who are already in difficulty to pay their rent will not be able to pay it. Let us therefore strengthen these basic social services so that they can cater for the avalanche of people who may find themselves in need of support. The most important and necessary thing right now, the urgent thing, is to help those who have difficulty paying for their homes, and the next thing is to start building public rental homes. This is our amendment, which is what we will vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u83	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Chief of Investigation, Congressmen, good morning to all of you. To tell you the truth, I was surprised when I saw in the census that this proposition was made by the Podemos, especially because it was the same as they had been introduced in the law of the past. In proposition, yes, some things have been changed in exposure, but afterwards the same is expressed in acquittal. And at that time, three years ago, we put our arguments on the table, but I'd say even more, things have changed a lot since that time because they were working on things from the government too. I could have brought the same arguments, and I'll bring them, but I'll put other arguments on the table to vote against this initiative. A little to refresh your memory, and to see that the will of the socialists is not of the present moment, we have, moreover, examined a great deal when you send a proposal to a transaction or a middle course, but in the end it is not possible to reach an agreement. And as I said during the Law passed, in 2012, at that time the Mountain, the chief physician, had already set up a mortgage service for the Department of Justice. Secondly, with the mutual co-worker of Economists and Cinators, a compact still established, was signed. In 2012, it was agreed, on the 15th of October, that at that time, that Mr. Arriola, the head of the City of the People, and of Transport, was signed by Mr. Arriola, where the registers of the Houses of the Houses, and the rooms of the Official Protection, and the processions of the Common-wealths, were introduced into the Proclamations of the General Causes. And fourthly, on the 18th of June 2013, a compact was agreed with the Supreme Council of Judicial Powers, and with the Society of the EUDEL Basque Towns, which is now a new one. There is a need to create "a unified service of orientation and comprehensive care in housing emergencies, preventive information and advice in cases of mortgage over-indebtedness, prevention of abuse in the housing market and assistance to persons in situations of dispossession of their habitual housing". On this issue, we must point out that the above-mentioned functions are actually carried out by different departments of the General Administration of our Autonomous Community of Euskadi. First, the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy offers the Mortgage Mediation Service, which, as I mentioned earlier, was launched as today's Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia Justice Advisor. On the other hand, the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption, through Kontsumobide-Instituto Vasco de Consumo, informs and guides consumers on issues of consumption, such as housing, also in relation to their rights and obligations, reinforced in the past legislature by which he was then advisor in this matter, Alfredo Retortillo. The Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transportation offers the Bizilagun service, which is a public service, universal, free of charge, which aims, among other things, to offer useful tools to resolve disagreements and disagreements in neighbouring communities or in the relations between tenants and tenants. On the other hand, from the same department, priority is given to access to public protective or similar housing for persons affected by eviction and, in certain cases, direct access, even to housing. The proposal they have brought to this plenary today – in addition to being repeated – calls for the creation of a unified service of orientation and comprehensive care in the field of housing, following the principle of a single window. In view of the fact that these functions are already being carried out in the various departments mentioned above, there is no doubt that a new service is no longer a priority at this time, because of the burden in times, efforts, economic and personal resources that this entails when, as I said, it is already being provided through the joint work of the various departments of the Basque Government concerned and which I have just mentioned. The social and economic cost-benefit analysis would not pass the test at the present time or, probably, in the future. We must remember that since the Housing Department, which is headed by Mr Arriola here today, work has already been done since the previous legislature to strengthen these resources and thus strengthen the management of public or similar housing under lease, the Gaztelagun programme and the management of supplementary housing provision, which Lanbide currently manages. At present, it is also the partnership agreement that I mentioned before, between the General Council of the Judiciary, the General Administration of the Autonomous Community and EUDEL, the instrument that allows for collaboration between the administrations involved in the procedures that may involve a judicial launch of housing for persons of special vulnerability, as requested in this House in the debate of this same initiative in the last legislature. This agreement offers a protocol of action which develops the form through which, in the event of an eviction arising from a mortgage execution procedure or due to non-payment of the corresponding income, a situation of special vulnerability is observed. In addition, the social services are transferred from the relevant municipality, always with respect to the rules of procedure and all matters relating to the protection of personal data, in order to examine the situation and, in common agreement between the three institutions that signed the convention, proceed to act according to the specific situation generated, either by formulating a proposal for intervention by the municipal social services, either through the processing of some assistance or social provision, or by referral to other social services or by declining the same because the circumstances do not permit the conclusion that this situation falls within the scope of their activities or has been answered by the means at their disposal. Finally, I believe that the Convention contributes to improving public management by facilitating the joint use of public resources and services and the implementation of public utility activities. With regard to the third and fourth points of its proposal, I believe that various departments of the Basque Government are already working on this issue and there is also a very advanced proposal for cooperation on civil mediation as an alternative resolution system. I therefore consider, in the light of the data at our disposal, that this situation does not give rise, in this case, to a unified service, as you are proposing, with the objectives and needs you are aiming for. In some ways, I would like to recommend that you ask for data on recent launches so that you realize that, precisely through the work that has been done from the Housing Department, from other departments of the same Government, and also thanks to the collaboration agreement signed between the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, EUDEL and the Basque Government itself, the instruments have been improved, they act much more effectively and that, of course, is demonstrated in the results. As I say, I would recommend that you ask them, because that would prove that what was requested in the last legislature is not only in progress, but is done efficiently, as I have pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u84	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u85	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Good noon, everyone. Podemos, as he has well said, has brought us a similar proposition, not to say the same, because you have made some alterations with him, especially because he proposes: and this time, at least, you have settled our position here. And since we're on the Basque Act, at least I like that one, don't I? It may be interesting to deny the proposal you make, but today we won't support it for two reasons. On the one hand, as has been well said, that the services you propose are offered, and, in our opinion, in a proper manner; and besides, it is not at the present moment a service which you are benefiting from, and in the present state, I don't think it is one of the a priori, is it not? Eucharin's development of homes has obviously gone down, but we won't deny that it's not really serious, because it's serious, and he's gone to rent now, we'd say. And I agree with him when Mr. Fernandez de Betño said they're also demanding a rental in their corrections, right? Perhaps it has been answered in the question of domestication from institutions, when there have been mortgaged problems, but now it is true that even the rent has been carried on a great deal, and perhaps we ought to give it a more suitable or more extensive answer? It's been a long time since you've been helping people with a housing problem, and, as has been said, these services are from different departments. I won't mention them again because they've been well listed, but, for instance, it hasn't been said that the additional preparation of the apartment, which is associated with rentals, has been paid for many years, and has helped many people to pay their own apartment. Now that he runs out of the profession, and then, well, that step we have to take when it's already done on that housing station that housing station, which the Housing Department itself will handle. Besides, I think this single-window proposition may have its good side, but it doesn't mean because it doesn't exist now, because, as they say, people don't arrive at services, it doesn't come safe. I think, and in that case, the representative of the Populacy has also said that those who are to be reinforced are social services, hasn't he? In the end, many of the citizens who have a housing problem have other problems, and, I think, a single window... I don't know, but the first entrance is made by council to these social services. And there are times when it's also an integral service, not just to solve the housing problem, but to solve many other problems that these families, unfortunately, have. Therefore, we do not deny that this service would really be good, but we believe you have no other services to propose, and these are offered. That's why what we're asking for in our corrections is that they'll continue to improve that coordination between the different organizations and the various departments they serve up to now. After that, we put on our lease, which was mentioned a few years ago between EUDEL and Judicial Power. And, indeed, it was signed to be an early introduction to those families who might have been in danger of losing the apartment, and perhaps had mortgage problems, paying attention to those who might be in danger of losing the apartment, and I see that it is necessary to consider also those who could not pay the rent. So, in the housing issues, maybe this is one of the few things we haven't come to an agreement. Fortunately, I believe that in this matter of housing, which is so important in the legislature, we have obtained extensive agreements, and the next point hup will also be a witness to this. It's true that you made a proposal yesterday, and I don't deny it, I think it was a pretty acceptable suggestion, but, as you've explained, it's probably not suitable for the government. That's why today's deal wasn't possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Passing responses round. Mr Martínez, representative of the Podemos-IU team together, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u87	Yes, thank you. First of all, I'd like to thank Unai Fernandez de Betoño and EH Collector for their corrections. And, well, the agreement has been very simple, well, hues, but rather potent, as he has described it, and I think they fed the original initiative. Muriel andreari Bakarrik elongated god Gauzatxo bat. Bakarrik behin esan duzu, eta horretan pixka bat aurrera egin duzue, Llanos andreak passes of a legegintzaldian egin zuen hitzartzean, well, hitzartzearen herdia ia-ia egon zen criticizing this was a "new chiringuito". You mentioned it only once. I make it clear – just as I did in the past legislature – that the proposal is a proposal within the Basque Government, with regulations, rules, staff of civil servants, an allocated budget... Therefore, you may or may not agree, but do not marry the definition of "chiringuito". And then a few little things to the members of the Congress of Bersacez and Berasi. I think the proposal last night was pretty easy, I think, to settle it, and I think the problem hasn't been in time. I'd put them up for the start... Well, this is a negotiation, and I'm not going to say from the beginning that I want the investigation "the next year," and I said, "A month." But we haven't received an alternative proposition or proposition. And, as I said before, we were ready and ready at the present moment, even in the west, the ruler guarantees that. If it's a problem with the deadlines, our position can be much more flexible. Then I said when I first spoke, and now I'll say again: We don't say it, she doesn't talk to us now, and then she's not doing anything on this Euskeleon theme. And not even this was born, but all these things were not born in a government of the Socialist Party, which has been historically advanced in different governments, I believe, by a great deal progress has been made, happily, with the digestion of all parties. We're still far from our ideal policy, but there's been a lot of progress in this country, in this matter, among all of us. And Including the Social Party, but not alone. And again shall I say: We do not say that nothing is done. These things are done, and our subjective opinion is that the service which we propose would be useful. At this moment, the Social Party's opinion and the subjective opinion of the National Party are not opposed... Yes, you've given some facts, but what they don't have to do with service or not need, but your subjective opinion does not agree with this proposal. Okay, we agree. That's why we offered the government in our middle-way proposal because the idea of the Community-Subject has a great subjective point of subjectiveity, we gave it to Acha to make his own report, to investigate his strength and weakness, to introduce suggestions for improvement, and to discuss matters in this parliament. Then my subjective opinion is equal to your subjective opinion. We didn't make a deal. On another day, probably, we shall still present such or similar undertakings in this legislation, as we did in the law which has passed; and we thought that the commencement of the law would have its value and importance in adapting the Government to its internal use in order to have time. Without further ado, he said that, obviously, as Mr Pastor is not, he knows that I am in a hurry, we will continue to present initiatives, if not equal, similar or similar, to advance housing policy in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u88	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Fernandez de Betoño mustn't speak. Euscal Group Popula representative. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u89	Thank you. Look, it turns out that from the experience of a waitress, bringing people closer to basic social services, people who were struggling to pay for their home, the experience has made me realize that the problem was not that the service was not running, but that... People who have so far had a clear relationship with basic social services who knew that they could be helped by female social workers and female social workers, I repeat. The problem is that in extreme economic circumstances many people are busy not being able to cope with the payment of their housing and what happens is that they are completely unaware of what the use of basic social services is like. Therefore, I do not think that the need is so much to generate an entity that will manage or help them, but rather to make people, citizens, aware that they can have a solution and that they can be helped. I am not opposed to conglomerate all that, but it is already conglomerate in basic social services. Therefore, what needs to be done is to implement with more help, so that these people are helped at a vital time in their lives in which they are having problems due to an economic crisis created by a pandemic, or previously an economic crisis created by the real estate boom. What needs to be done is to allocate resources to people to get them directly into them. And the truth: I often get excited about this topic because it gives me the feeling that we generate more spending without it directly affecting people. And what citizens need is that we help them pay those rents and help them get out... those rents or mortgages that they cannot face at a specific time in their lives. So, if you've felt offended when I called "chiringuito," it's because you believed that what money really has to be spent on is at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists. Don't talk, don't you?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u91	Thank you, ma'am. I'll make it short. Exceptional measures must be put in place in the face of exceptional situations. I think it was working really well. Obviously, the health crisis we are experiencing has made some situations, of course, worse. But look, it's curious, because if you look at, for example, the last available report on the second quarter of 2020 of the General Council of the Judiciary on the effects of the economic crisis on judicial bodies, you will notice that the number of total launches carried out in Spain in the second quarter of 2020 had fallen dramatically. Well, we are talking about the first two quarters, which was precisely where exceptional measures were applied, the social shield that the Spanish Government applied so that the weakest did not suffer the health crisis in a more severe way. Within that social shield, of course, there were other kinds of tools, such as asking for the extraordinary suspension of a launch act in a period of up to 31 January 2021. But, for example, if you look at other data, for example, those provided by the Judicial Statistics Section of the General Council of the Judiciary, you make a continuous reference to the evolution of the launches, and when you talk about Euskadi you say that it is spectacularly decreasing and accounts for 1.7% of the total launches made in Spain from 2013 to 2020. Given our population weight, if you make the comparison, I think it is a very important fact to take into account, which also makes it very clear that the instruments we have in our autonomous community are effective. And I'm not going to deny that your proposal is not studentable – it seems even interesting to me, already advancing it, it seems even interesting to me – but I think that, today, the tools that we already have on the table are working well. I do not tell you that in the future, if the situation worsens, another series of instruments can be established, even your proposal can be studied, but I think that at the moment, and it is no longer just a matter of deadlines, I think it is a matter of efficiency, it was not possible to put in place the service that you proposed. Anyway, of course, obviously, you don't say it's not being done. It is indisputable that it is being done and that it is also being done well. And that other parties have also contributed to making housing policies in this country the same as they are. And, of course, we can also say that there have been parties, such as the Socialist Party, which has contributed particularly to strengthening housing rental policies in Euskadi. And it's undeniable. And in this very House we approved in the last legislature an initiative – I believe it was by practice unanimous – through which the government was urged to have all the public housing that was developed from the year on..., I don't know if it was 2020 or 2021, I'm talking about memory, all being rented. In any event, all the proposals, of course, that come from your hand on this issue will not only be welcome, but will be carefully studied, as has been done with this initiative. I can assure you that both the Government and our parliamentary group have studied your proposal very seriously. In any case, I hope and hope that in the future, in this legislature, we will be able to have initiatives that even bring more freshness to them and are novel, so that we can study them and not be turning around initiatives that we have already discussed in the last legislature. To conclude, to the lady of the People's Party, simply a point: you have spoken about empty rented houses, and you have drawn much attention to me because it was precisely the People's Party in the Government of Spain that brought an appeal before the Constitutional Court to the Housing Act adopted in this Parliament by EH Bildu, Socialist Party and, then, UPyD, in all matters relating to the articulated reference to empty housing. Therefore, look, I would invite you to speak with your colleagues so that, in the future, they will indeed support this Government in all matters relating to rental policies and, in particular, in those which target those social sectors which are most vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u92	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Irun shouldn't speak a word. We're done arguing and we're going to vote together with the middle-direction that Podemos-IUs and EH Collect has signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary is 48; the abstentions are 0; white, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u93	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudads. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the parties are 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters 6; the opponents 68; the abscessions 1, the white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u94	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And in the end, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists and the Euccanists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the assembly, 42; 75; 41; the contrary, the contrary 27; the Absence, 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u95	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposition of the Parliamentary organization of the Popula-Ciudadans, concerning the securing of the right of private property received in the Constitution, and taking advantage of a law which will act efficiently against the unlawful decision of the housing. To discuss and to decide once and for all." Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Gordillo, representing Ciudadnos, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u96	Well, thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. The non-legislative proposal before this Parliament has to do with an issue that is of great concern to the whole of society – to Basque society, to Spanish society – and that concerns us, especially. It has to do with the phenomenon of illegal occupation, illegal occupation, illegitimate housing. The purpose of the proposal was to – I say it was meant for what I will say next – but it is intended to urge the Government of the nation, to urge the central legislative bodies, to amend national legislation to actually give effect to the right to property, in this case the right to housing – rights are nothing without guarantees, this has been said many times in this House, paraphrasing the Constitutional Court – and in this way to make it effective. We understand that there is a need to clarify certain aspects – above all of a procedural nature – and that is why we thought it was important to focus, the issue on this. I would also like to have a sensible, serene, informed debate with all the other parliamentary groups on this matter, and perhaps one day we can have it, but today, in the end, the compromise amendment that has been signed by almost all the groups in this House – those of the government, EH Bildu and, also, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita – at the end of the day emphasizes another element that has something to do with, or may have a certain connection with, the phenomenon of occupation, but that in the end what it does is simply to base the phenomenon of occupation on guilt or it is the consequence that there is no access to universal housing, and hence, already, the debate becomes the issue of the right to housing, which, on the other hand, as I will say in the second round, we would have no problem in voting for a text of the characteristics that the groups have presented, but in another debate, in a debate on access to housing and the development of the housing law that was also adopted in this Basque Parliament. But, well, the Bureau has accepted, in use of its powers – very generously interpreted always by the Constitutional Court – it has assumed – we understand that well-advised, moreover – that it has assumed, however, that it is worth accepting an amendment that, in fact, does what it does is to talk about another issue that I understand is going away and that there is no identity of reason, that there is no connection, but, finally, it does not belong to me. However, we will defend our proposal and, in turn, we will emphasize some of the elements and proposals that also affect the proposal of the other groups. Look, the right to property is essential in any modern society. The State itself – and I know that here there are jurist members mainly interested in the theory of the State that values this type sometimes of excuse – the State actually emerges to protect freedom and security. And the right to property, although there are certain political groups that always question it, but the right to property is a manifestation of freedom. It is a manifestation of people's freedom and security. And it is a manifestation, precisely, of that freedom that does, or that which made necessary, that in the state – here we could talk about Hobbes' theories, etc. – guarantee precisely this right. It is simply a guarantee of the exercise of a fundamental right. It is true that the Spanish Constitution does not include it in the list, for example, of rights that are subject, among other things, to development through organic law and remedy of amparo, but it is true that, by virtue of Spain's membership of the European Convention on Human Rights, that article one, the additional protocol first, you know that you recognize as a fundamental right in the Convention, in Strasbourg, the right to property – and some mention I will also make to the European Court of Human Rights. In recent times, however, the truth is that Spanish society has experienced a situation in which the right to own property, specifically housing, has been violated, has been affected, has been trampled on, on too many occasions. The illegal occupation of housing has increased, according to data from the Ministry of the Interior itself, by 58% in recent years. We have passed up to 12,000 reported cases in 2018. Only in what we have been doing this year are there up to 8,000 cases of new complaints. It is true that the situation with the pandemic and with the COVID has been able to lessen it, but this is a short-term situation: as soon as we regain normalcy – hopefully soon and, by the way, with all the constitutional guarantees – we will relive this situation. It is estimated that in Spain there are about 87,000 illegally occupied dwellings, I insist – although the calculation, or number, could be kept short, precisely because there are cases that are not reported. There are cases that are not reported and cases that, sadly, as we will see, do not pass through the judicial bodies because in the end they are resolved by other means that we believe are not appropriate. In order to tackle the problem of occupation correctly, and I like to have a debate, certainly sensible, informed and, above all, in this, correct, three issues must be distinguished. Firstly, one of a legal nature, which has to do with the guarantees of property law and the legal response to be given by the law. Perhaps not everything should have a criminal answer, of course. There is a crime, the crime of usurpation, there may be a situation of trespassing. Not everything has to be or not everything has to be given an answer, it has to be given as a response of criminal law, any solution or any reaction of the legal system. This is true of the principle of minimum intervention of criminal law that every constitution recognizes. The second distinction I would like to make, and draw your attention to it, is one that has, if you want, a social or political nature. Because there are cases in which there is a situation of eviction and, therefore, there is a situation of vulnerability, of necessity, and of people affected by eviction who have to be attended to by the public authorities. And in this we agree. But, apart from the situations of evictions, we also have situations of illegal occupation. There are illegal occupations, which deserve all our reproach and which must deserve all reproach on the part of the public authorities. Thirdly, it is necessary, within the illegal occupations, to distinguish two issues: there are illegal occupations that are carried out through organized groups, through organized criminal groups to extract an economic revenue, and there are illegal occupations that are carried out by what is usually called "anti-system groups" – perhaps less and less anti-system, because they are within the system, perhaps also for the purpose of destroying it from within. That's the historical division. Against these two types of manifestations, these two types of groups, we must act in defense of the law of private property. The occupation must be criticized by the law and by the public authorities. If we do not tackle this problem in a correct, balanced way, from the norm, from the law, in the end we will come to situations in which individuals will end up taking justice by their hand. And that's the situation we don't want to get to. I recall the classics again: the State begins as an answer to put order to this situation of absolute disorder in which everyone takes justice by his hand. It is therefore necessary for that State to put order. If the state is unable to put order, if it is unable to guarantee property and security, we will return to the so-called "state of nature", which in the case of Hobbes and Locke, by the way, are states in which it is not pleasant to live. We have cases in Bilbao. We have had cases of an elderly woman who is absent from her home, then comes back and finds that she has the occupied house and, in the end, it has had to be the neighbors who have intervened. They'll tell me, "Hey, it's just that you too... This is an exceptional case, and so on." Well, it's a case, and there's been a lot more cases. But this simply highlights a situation that needs to be tackled and that we must not allow this to be resolved in the end by the way of fact, that is, that it must be resolved by the individual themselves or that it must be resolved, in this case, by the neighbourly solidarity itself, because this ends up affecting coexistence, ends up affecting coexistence. There are cases, too, where real estate occupations occur, which end up degenerating into narcopies or in places where they end up selling or trafficking, too, with other types of substances. And that affects neighborly coexistence. That's a reality, we can call it what we want, we can put on the patches we want, but that's a reality that happens in certain circumstances, and that's what we want to avoid. There is therefore a need to amend the legal system. Recently, after a report by the Ombudsman, both the Office of the Prosecutor and the Ministry of the Interior issued instructions. One of them, to see the role of the Prosecutor's Office and the way in which it had to act in situations, I insist, complex, because they are varied, moreover: there are situations of evictions; there are situations of illegal occupations; within the illegal occupations there is a whole typology. And also an instruction from the Secretariat of Security, the Secretariat of the Interior, concerning the protocols to be followed by the police in these situations. But in any case, in any case, this is seen as insufficient. It is seen as insufficient, above all, because the legal system is incapable – with the system, with the mechanisms it currently has – and it is totally incapable of proceeding to a relatively rapid resolution of the problem. It should be noted that, in the comparative field, neighbouring states, which are often cited here, moreover, in this House as examples to follow in some matters, for, look, in certain neighbouring states in which we always want to reflect, for, these kinds of procedures are given relatively fast, not without guarantees, but simply fast in order to recover a good as housing can be. We are talking, I insist, about a lot of typology: it is that there are people who at best live from the rental of the houses they have; they have their home, but it is that, moreover, they can live from houses they own. We have the case of the Netherlands, France, the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy and Denmark, which guarantee citizens the legitimate recovery of their property within a very short period of time. Some progress has been made, as I said before, but these have been insufficient. These have been insufficient. The proposal that we were making – I mean it and I repeat it again, with total honesty, and I also wrote it, I tried to draft it, in terms that could lead to the accession, perhaps, of other groups after a transaction; I believe that we have shown that we are a group with the right hand and that we can reach agreements when it seems reasonable to us – I simply raised one thing, which is nothing more than the application of the legal order, but it is a political declaration that consists in manifesting the commitment to private property rights and the fight against illegal occupation. Secondly, to urge both the Government of Spain and the parliamentary groups representing, in this case, the General Courts to carry out a law or to adopt, in particular, in this case, an amendment to the legislation, particularly the procedural aspects, in order to deal with this problem. This applies to the right, in this case, to maintenance, to the enjoyment of a person's property, to private property. In this House, the truth is that there are certain contents, certain words, that give me the feeling that every time they pronounce, a bench – the north bench, the south bench, the west bench... – rises, doesn't it? As we say the word "business", there is a bench that suddenly wakes up from parliamentary sleep; if we talk about Basque issues, there is another bench that suddenly wakes up; if we talk about the issue of occupation, it seems that there is also another bench that quickly wakes up... I repeat: we had no inconvenience in having adopted a resolution very similar to that which you have raised in the transaction, very similar, what happens is that what we could not accept is that "the phenomenon of occupation simply stems from the fact that there is no access for all to a home". No, man, no! It's a more complex phenomenon. We agreed to discuss that. But, well, they have decided to carry out this transaction which, basically, is in itself a fraud to the debate itself, because we divert the issue of attention from what is occupation with what is the issue of social housing. Of course, social housing must be developed; of course, housing must also be developed on a rental basis; of course, it must also be done taking into account the income and often destitute situation in which many people find themselves. But it is a typical trend that exists – not only on the part of these groups, in this case – it is a typical trend that exists, apparently, in the already parliamentary sphere, from day to day, which consists, hear, in not discussing the issue and presenting an amendment on an issue that may have a certain relationship, but which I believe distorts the debate. However, I believe that the amendment that we have tabled is sufficiently reasonable and, moreover, as I will insist on the second round, the spokesmen of the Basque Nationalist Party have already pointed out that the proposal for a law that we have put forward in the Lower House, in the Congress of Deputies, counts, in principle, with a very favourable opinion on the part of the Basque Nationalist Party, which, however, here, prefers, in this case, because I understand that it also supports its partner, in this case its minor partner, and takes forward this initiative, which, I insist, may seem good in another context, and I have no problem with discussing it in another context, but I believe that it distorts the proposal not initially presented. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u97	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u98	Good morning again. Well, PP-Ciudados comes to us with another obsession. They came to us last week with RGI, and this time, the occupation. As a matter of fact, since we sent him to Maroto Sotosalbos, he's finished his speech. It's more humid, it's more suave. But the week before, close enough to the throphobic, and this time more than EARRAB, in the collection of signatures that are being made on the street, and in the campaign, we are listening to several words, close enough to the aporophobia. Aporophobic or poverty, dislike of the poor, and sometimes hatred. We believe this to be the case behind most cases of occupation: poverty. And with poverty, two immobilaries of phenomena: The lack of social housing and the excess of vacant housing. We don't just say that, the Cerdà Institute said in 2017 that there are three factors behind the occupation: poverty, want of social housing, and excess of empty housing. P.P. in his proposition, though indirectly at the first point, connects the phenomenon of the occupation with the housing, but in a rather curious way, we believe. He says that people who are in a state of retirement must be protected, but they don't say in what direction they're going, they don't even give a measure in that direction. And we really believe that if there is the excess of poverty, of social houses, and of empty homes, it is the most effective way to destroy the occupation of these three factors, the measures to diminish poverty and social retirement must be strengthened, the offer of social houses must be increased, and the excess of empty houses must be fought. If you've got a clear goal: that there should be no one without a house, and no house without any one. But PP comes with the usual interested read of the article in the Constitution. They seem not to be able to read the whole article, because in article 33, private property exists, yes, but that has a clear limit: social and general interest, that is to say, private property exists as long as the social function of anything is not shaken. And many times behind the occupational phenomenon, the immobilary speculation that is in most of the ioniasis, which is in use, compromises the social function of the housing. The right-wing and neoligarian PP maintains that the house has a value of exchange, like any other merchandise; and the left-wingers defend that the house has a value of use, especially as it is a subjective right. This idea also arises in the 47th article of the Constitution which PP forgot to mention in his proposal: to enjoy a decent house is a right, and to regulate the soil to prevent speculation. because PP prefers to confound everything, to punish poverty once more; he prefers to emphasise and exaggerate the most obscure part of the occupation, to inspire fear, to make something that is not often an occupational occupation, to force himself into the houses or the houses, for instance, by mixing with it by accident. And although the problem is artificially exaggerated, it's true that in the Euscal Autonomy Er member, 2019, there were only 200 occupations of the iotype which have just been given in Congress by the July. Besides, the amount has been lowered on 5% since this media is nothing to do with pandemy, which was ahead of us. So quaantitatively, it's nothing. That doesn't make it a security pill. What PPk and Ciudadans really want is to spell the immobilial speculation against what is said in the 47th article of the Constitution. That's the opposite of the Constitution they love so much. And it's people's safety that we want to make sure we have a decent house, and not the banks are 70% of occupied houses to continue experimenting with the apartment. We mean that we don't need to be simplified with this problem. At the first point of our correction, we say that there are different realities which must be distinctly distinguished behind the appearance of the occupation, and that, though behind the mafia in some few recent cases, there is a problem of getting home at most. But let our position not be misinterpreted: the occupation must not be the solution to a permanent housing. Hence, we say, at the second point of our correction, that occupation is the principal way to diminish public housing policies by increasing, especially a rental offer. In that sense, at the third point of our amendment, we ask you to go to the firm to 100% of all the paid budget, or to the reforms, or rent, as we requested articles of the 74th of the 2015 HUD, and as promised by the government program of the funhouse, by an introduction, a sort of initiative like EH Collector's was approved on the other day at the Gasitian Council, because by chance, with P'P's Abs Abstation. And at the same time, we think it would be necessary to remind the EAE councils that this obligation should be directed to a rental, that duty is also theirs. We know he's not filling up in some councils. We understand for PP, Ciudadans, that it is a trifle, but we must remind him that even though he voted against the Housing Act, he is strong. Finally, and also connected with the Housing Law, we believe that the three periods of development which are about to be tried in the course of the last few months must at last be approved: the subjective right to the house, the most vital, and especially the most empty house. This last decree, which is the most empty, because it is of immense importance in the context of this affair, is the object of securing the social function of all the housing, and also of selling empty houses. So, while PP tries to drop the IBI streams on the empty houses, we think it's very important to declare the empty houses for once, and if the time comes, to apply the rents. As I said before: no one without houses, no home, no one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u99	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team is Martínie, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u100	Good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am. Mr Gordillo, I think you have done an exercise in, well, I don't know whether it is good or nice words, but it is that your initiative is not presented in an isolated way in the Basque Parliament: PP, Citizens and Vox have presented this initiative – or similar – in different autonomous parliaments, in the Congress of Deputies and surely that..., well, yes, also in municipalities, like Bilbao. And they were initiatives that were born rascias, but they got too old. But, well, you have won in this particular fight you have with Vox, the fight today you have won it: you have presented the initiative before. But that's where he's gonna stay. It is another chapter, said Mr Fernandez de Betoño, of the criminalization of poverty, which, by the way, generates its policies, and of agitating non-existent ghosts to cover the shames of a system that still does not guarantee, neither here in Euskadi, although we are better than elsewhere, nor in the whole of the Spanish State, a right as fundamental as the right to housing. We therefore deeply reject both her initiative and her spirit. The victims of the real estate boom crisis that resulted in the deregulation of the rental market that the People's Party government pushed in 2008 are still fresh in memory. And right now, as I said in the previous initiative, we are facing a new economic crisis, the result of a health crisis, which people have to face. A triple confrontation: the virus, the crisis, possible unemployment and staying on the street. And that's what we have to stop. 600,000 evictions since 2008: that is the real shame of Spain. His party had not presented a single initiative on that subject. The situation in Spain, without a housing law and with a ridiculous social housing park: that is a scandal. And it has also earned the condemnation of the United Nations Economic and Social Committee. And besides, I will say this here, we welcome with hope – thanks to the struggle of the PAH, the tenant unions and many parties and other organizations – the announcement by the government of a coalition of a new housing law in the Spanish state, in which rents are to be regulated, which are right now taking people to the streets. And let us hope that progress will also be made in the protection of vulnerable tenants at risk of being evicted. I look forward to your amendments to that law. Besides, you didn't make any effort to bring this initiative to the Basque context. Eukadin is a progressive domestic policy, but at the same time, as we said before, he has a lot of problems, lots of limitations, and a policy that must take more steps. More than 60,000 housing applicants – 20,000 of those without income –; 15,000 manageable housing in a relatively fast way – beyond the figures, the empty housing data, which have been given, which are higher –; rental prices of more than 1,000 euros on average; 1,043 families released in Euskadi in 2019. And you have said absolutely nothing or presented any initiative, and the first thing you bring here is a false debate about another false name, which is that of "occupation". Do you know that the complaints of occupation in Euskadi – in Bizkaia, Araba and Gipuzkoa – have been reduced in what goes on in the year as compared to 2019, according to the Ministry of the Interior? I feel that reality also spoils his initiative. Because in this debate of the occupation, and it has already been said, in an interesting and manipulative way from the right, or the right, many terms are often mixed, and has one purpose: to entangle, innoculate fear of the population and to walk towards its only objective, which is more punitive legislation, harder against the poor. In short, as has been said, as with income security income. You deliberately confuse the person who occupies an unused property, i.e. the person who commits a crime of usurpation, with the person who enters a inhabited house – either first, second or third – and therefore commits a break-in of residence (article 202.1 of the Criminal Code). The law already guarantees the express eviction of the raids of the habitual residence, the second and the third residence, already does, and knows it perfectly. No one is going to get the bread – neither in Bilbao –, returns home, finds it busy, and the police and justice do not act. It's a lie; it's a lie! Stop lying and manipulating. That's absolutely a lie. No one! Police and justice act if someone comes into your house. On the other hand, if we are faced with an unusual property, it is a crime of usurpation or occupation (article 245.2 of the Criminal Code), and here, you know perfectly well, and certainly better than me, that there are two ways: the penal way, which is somewhat longer, but which ends in 99% of cases in eviction, and the civil way. I think it will sound like Law 5/2018, which allows the occupant to be evicted in just five days without the title of a dwelling as long as the owner is a private individual. And here's the second part of your campaign, of lies and fear. Individuals are protected by Law 5/2018 and by more laws and by the Penal Code itself and by the Spanish Constitution itself, where it says that the domicile is inviolable. You'll know better than I will, surely. But, of course, you try to confuse the population by saying that you can enter a house and stay there. And no, by either of the two ways, nor by the house break-in, of course, nor by that of usurpation or occupation either. But you are afraid of small owners who may have one, two or three homes, which are protected by law. Those who are not protected – and that's what you want to change, but they don't say it – are the big forks: banks and investment funds, but they forget that. And you, well, subscribe to Securitas Direct campaigns and try to scare people. Judge Natalia Velilla said that the theme of "Okupation is an example of artificially created social alarm (very slow by some press)". And he says, "I'd like to know for who and why. Reminds me of the time when everything was dog bites to children" in the parks. Or Judge Joaquim Bosch said: "There is no problem in Spain with first or second dwellings occupied. In such cases, we are faced with crimes of home invasion and eviction can occur within hours, following the detention of the occupants. There are very few cases in this country." So, again, what are you gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens playing at? I will repeat to you, and Mr Fernandez de Betoño has said, it is a clear sign of aporophobia, of criminalising the poverty of those who cannot access housing at the prices of a bubble also made politically and economically, among other things, by the policies of their coalition. For example, the relaxation of the Urban Leases Act, the reduction to the socimis, which have a lot to do with the vulture funds that have bought thousands of houses in the Spanish state, which, by the way, good news, is going to raise taxation to these socimis. They also do so because they know that a huge crisis is coming and that, no matter how much social shield governments – Basque and Spanish – can put in place, it will always take more and more because the economic crisis is going to be huge. But big owners don't have that problem. Therefore, you are defending, in this case, in this initiative, not the small owners, but the large forks, and you are also doing so in a context in which you want to curb the progress in housing, the progress here in Euskadi, and the progress in the whole of the Spanish state. You often boast of being very Spanish and very Spanish, or that was said by a leader of your party. Here's the Spanish Constitution, and I think you know it well. Article 33.1, "The right to private property is recognized". Article 33.2, "The social function of these rights shall delimit its content, in accordance with the laws." I hope that this article will also apply, i.e. the social role of the right to private property delimits its content. And article 47 – I also recommend its reading and, where it governs, its application – "...the Spaniards have the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing". Are you less Spanish than those who are forced to enter a home owned by a bank or investment fund because they have no income, because they have discharged them or because they have lost their jobs and cannot pay the mortgage and have been forced to occupy a home owned by a vulture fund or a bank? Are they less Spanish? Therefore, less criminalization of poverty and more decent housing for all and for all. As some of my friends say, "Less Susanna Griso and more Belén Gopegui." Our alternative proposal, with all the law of the world, came to develop the housing policy in Euskadi, which we have in this country in major areas. We urge the Basque Government to develop the Housing Act on the mobilization of empty housing, the canon of public housing construction, to allocate the entire budget, except for rehabilitation, to rental housing. And that's what we're going to focus on. While, moreover, I think we have to work, and I think it would be a good agreement, and I propose, if you like, that we urge the Government of Spain, the Congress of Deputies, to approve the ban on the evictions of "debtors of good faith". In short, we will not rest until we make possible the maximum of "neither house without people, nor people without house". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u101	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Misto's representative. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u102	Good morning. Legal security, property and freedom are assets that must be protected. It makes no sense for political forces to defend those who steal the property of others. Fighting crime is not a matter of parties, but of common sense. We followed Hobbes in his assertion that everyone prefers peace to anarchy, to war. In that regard, we agree that laws must ensure a state of affairs that makes freedom, peace and harmony possible with deep respect for private property. And it is the State that must guarantee this situation, punishing anyone who seeks disorder, who seeks to trample on the rights of others. In Vox we look with terror at those leftist political forces that encourage the occupation at the expense of a working class, i.e., a worker, who religiously pays rent or mortgage. The right to private property is a fundamental right within democracy; without that right there is neither social order nor economic stability. Article 33.1 of the Constitution provides for the right to private property. The illegal occupation of housing has grown by 50% over the last four years. In Vitoria we have a clear example, which is Olarizu's. The police have performed more than 411 times in the course of the year. Good-law neighbors have given up reporting. A neighbor recently said: "When something fat happens, this will end; until then no one listens to us. We're tired." No one wants to live there, it has become a place of drugs, thefts and problems, a ghetto without cover for legal owners, but for the occupied. For the sake of inri, we know that they are now going to throw away these occupations. They should approach the neighborhood to see the terror faces of the neighbors, who fear that they will occupy their home knowing that the law will not protect them. It is intolerable that a person enters another person's home, destroys it and the rightful owner has to wait years to recover his property, in addition to continuing to pay the IBI, the garbage and, in many cases, the mortgage. The occupants must be removed from their homes on the same day that they have committed the crime, and if they commit damage to the house that they cannot repair afterwards, it must be the Government that must take letters in the matter. It is also surprising to see that the occupations are so well-advised in legal terms. We are faced with an institutionalized mafia, which is covered at all levels. The police only act if notice of the occupation is given in the first 72 hours. Something that you know very well takes care of. How do we tell the people who comply with the rules to live honestly if the criminals do not face any penalty? Can't you see we're launching a message that leads us to ruin? We are pleased to see that the PP has finally decided to take the initiative it does not do when it governs. I could have applied it from 2015 to 2018, they've had time, but it hasn't worried them. Mr. Zaton, go get the bread, no, but go to town for a week and get you into the house? What does the law say about that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u103	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists. The word is yours, Mr. Donalza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u104	Thank you, ma'am. In recent months we have seen how some right-wing parties and certain media like them have chosen to place, within their strategy of harassment and overthrowing the Government of the State, the illegal occupation of housing, giving it a category of social alarm, of social problem, and contributing to creating a climate of fear and insecurity that does not correlate at all with the data available or with the global reality that is currently being lived. The proposal that the People's-Citizens Group has brought today is clearly a quest to turn this Parliament into a chamber of resonance of the Congress of Deputies. Look, ladies and gentlemen, in order to put the problem we must first explain, and even if it seems to be a lie, what crimes are behind the concept of illegal occupation of housing and what reliable and current data there is on this matter. To do so, we must differentiate between two legal concepts that correspond to the occupation. On the one hand, we have the offence of trespassing on dwellings, habitual dwellings or second residences, referred to in article 202 et seq. of the Criminal Code: entering the home against the will of the owner – in which the second residences are also included. In these cases, the eviction is almost immediate. On the other hand, there is the offence of usurpation of empty dwellings, referred to in article 245 of the Criminal Code: occupying a building with violence or intimidation, but which does not constitute the domicile or residence of the owner. Therefore, these are empty properties in which no one lives. In recent times the usurpations are occurring mainly in properties that are owned by banks and investment funds, and that keep them empty over time, in most cases with a speculative spirit. How often do these kinds of crimes occur in Spain and in the Basque Country? Well, look, I'll tell you, Mr. Gordillo. The number of convictions for trespassing in 2019 was 238, the lowest in the last six years. That is the true reality, the objective reality that the data cast, and not the reality that you faithfully, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, want to make see through your imagination. With regard to the crime of usurpation, the incidence of this crime was approximately 0.0013 per cent. In 2019, the number of convictions for this crime has dropped to 4,687 cases. On the other hand, it must be said that the incidence of this crime is very uneven throughout the Spanish territory, being the communities most affected, in the last period especially, Andalusia and Madrid, both of which are randomly governed by the People's Party and Citizens. In Euskadi, in 2019, there were 54 usurpations; 310 throughout the period between 2013 and 2019. This is 1% of the total number of usurpations in Spain. Therefore, from the analysis of reality we can conclude, on the basis that there is no significant social problem with the occupation of the housing that constitutes the habitual domicile and second residences, neither in Euskadi nor in Spain. Therefore, in the face of the misleading message that laws are not sufficiently protecting private property, the strong message that private property is also protected by powerful legal means must be launched. The problem lies in judicial deadlines. There is no need for further legislation, which requires greater enforceability in the courts that apply it. It is precisely in order to strengthen the performance of the first moments of the occupation and thus to avoid reaching the judicial process that two important actions have been carried out. The first, the Attorney-General's Office has recently issued an instruction to unify criteria and act as a matter of urgency in the case of the occupation of real estate. The second, the Secretariat of State for Security, belonging to the Ministry of the Interior, has also prepared an instruction containing a protocol for the action of the State security forces and bodies in the face of the illegal occupation of property. The various initiatives being presented by the People's Party, Vox and Citizens focus their attention on the occupation by organized movements of a mostly mafia nature and set aside the other dimension, that of the occupation that occurs precisely because of the situation of greater vulnerability, that of necessity. Here, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to not stigmatizing certain groups, it is also important to address the situation of unprotectiveness and vulnerability in which many people who have seen no other response to their situation than to occupy an empty home to have a roof to live in. The shocking crisis generated by the pandemic we are going through is going to exacerbate this situation again, unfortunately – and it has already been serious enough so far. In the period from 2013 to the second quarter of 2020 in Spain – years in which most, by the way, ruled the People's Party – a total of 429,846 launches have been carried out for mortgage execution and derivatives of the LAU. Rent derivatives have now become two out of three cases. In other words, 2.3% of Spanish households have been thrown out of their homes. In Euskadi this phenomenon has fortunately been much more limited, with 1.7% of all launches in Spain and 0.7% of all Basque households. It is no coincidence – I repeat, it is no coincidence – that, again, the same communities that concentrate usurpations also concentrate judicial launches. Surely there is a socially clear cause-effect relationship. In the face of what has come to us and, above all, in the face of what can come to us, with unfortunate certainty, the best is to make better social and housing policies that allow us to face the vulnerability of people and their homes by arbitrating alternatives, and not the stigmatization of those groups that are most vulnerable – which, by the way, you are very accustomed, unfortunately, to do. The shock measures taken by the institutions have made it possible to respond to the immediate danger by deploying all our resources to address the health and social crisis, and to try to mitigate in some way the most pressing impacts on individuals and households. And, surely, the central Government has adopted a number of measures that seek to protect the most vulnerable tenants and owners. I understand that you, Mr. Gordillo, should know. In case of chance, I make a very superficial review of it: extraordinary extension of the contracts of lease of habitual housing; moratoriums for the payment of rent; temporary and extraordinary postponements; aids to the payment of rent, such as the loans that are financing from the State Housing Plan 2018-2021; bank guarantees of the State, 1.2 billion euros for people in economic vulnerability who need financing for the payment of rent; moratorium of the mortgage debt for those people who have difficulty to pay the mortgage as a result of the crisis arising from the COVID-19... Finally, in addition to these urgent measures of a state nature, the Basque Government has social policies and an agreement which I have previously commented on and which, of course, I will not repeat. Look, Mr. Gordillo, you've given me the feeling that you've come here and just come out to the rostrum the first thing you've done has been to justify yourself. Justify yourself. The bandage has been put on before the wound. You have come to say: "No, it is that my will was to reach an agreement", "I have brought an initiative and you have brought an amendment that has nothing to do with it, but that the Bureau has let it pass." No, no, Look, Mr Gordillo, you have come to talk about occupation, you have come to talk about occupation, and you have also come to talk about occupation in the same terms as you do in other chambers, and especially in the Congress of Deputies. And it has been found that, in his speech, we have made a social amendment. Faced with its stigmatization, the groups that have signed this transactional we have put on the table solutions so that those who are at risk of vulnerability or are already, unfortunately, vulnerable have a housing alternative so that they can live under a roof. It gives me the feeling that you have brought..., with a specific case that you have also mentioned, you have clinged to that burning nail to justify that you have brought here an initiative that, as I have said, the only thing you intend to do is for this House to become a chamber of resonance of your speeches in the Congress of Deputies. And it seems to me, in addition to being wrong, to be a good way for you to have put the question to us here in luck so that, after that, nothing more to begin your intervention, we have gone to the table, justifying what, of course, certainly is a real mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u105	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u106	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ... about the occupation, he's brought us another proposal like today. Here is another proposition of the Law; another by the hand of Ciudadanos, which was divided into the Congress of Madrid, with Vox, and Poptular Party; by PP, a bill of law in Madrid, and, as I have already mentioned, so many of the Spanish townships, and so many of the legislatures in autonomical autonomies. And it seems that you want to take the flag against the defence of property rights and the appropriation flag. In 2019, we had here, even by the hand of the Polula Party, a sort of discussion about this subject, which ended with the same result as today. A non-legislative proposal requesting that we urgently urge the Government of Spain to adopt a law guaranteeing the right to property and combating occupation. Well, this, Mr Gordillo, should be raised at the Congress of Deputies in Madrid and not here. And we do not say that the right to property should not be guaranteed, but we believe, and we have made it clear in the agreement reached by the rest of the groups in the House, except the Mixed, that what we also have to do is to guarantee the right to housing for all citizens and to combat the lack of housing, not just occupation. "Unapolicion no de ley en la que que que que que sueto no me un solo dato refere an el pueda ad proposericamentan la propositionion de ley que nos trae." And I think, and I've mentioned it before, and today, Mr. Martín, we've brought back another one of the same laws as once again repeated, which had also been introduced in the previous law, but it's true that this time, she said, they talked about the situation of Euskade. And if you present yourself next time to the same subject another bill of law, then let us make that effort, and let us place it here also, and not here? And illegal occupations came down Euskadin during the first six months of this year, if we compare them with 2019, at 2:7%. And in the Spanish State, on the other hand, they grew up at 5%. But it is not a general phenomenon, and this growth has occurred in certain concrete communities; In Canaries, Catalonia, Valencia, Gaul and Murcia. And I didn't make this up. It's in response to a question some members of your group asked in Madrid. And in the same answer, the data in 2018 and 2019 is also given. And this year, from one to the other, if there's an increase in state 19,7%, it's only 4,4. And the occupation in 2020 has increased in some communities, but in others they have been lowered. And this is Basque. So let's place the subject here, too, because it's the Basque Act. And it has been mentioned: He's talking a lot about illegal housing occupation lately, and, it seems, the only purpose of creating an alarm in society isn't it? But there are many who say so many experts, many jurists say, and those who know the subject are not justified in the present. And the facts we're giving, too, make that clear. It is true that the phenomenon of the occupation is present, and it is plain that it is also a phenomenon produced by the absence of the housing in the greatest part. We won't deny that there are some mafias who do occupation, but the main problem is that there is a lot of housing and more than here in Spain. We think that two things need an answer. It is true, illegal situations require the answer, but even the house dinner requires an answer. And I think we should give this a proper answer from public institutions. It said earlier that it was necessary to contextualize the numbers referring to the illegal occupation of housing and not to generate unfounded alarm situations. According to the General Council of the Judiciary, in 2019 there were more than 54,000 mortgage evictions in Spain, and according to the National Institute of Statistics, in Spain there are 3.4 million empty dwellings, 13.7% of the total. These are the ones that are likely to be occupied. And this is where public housing policies should also be developed in order to make these homes actually fulfil their role, which is that they are legally occupied by people who need housing. According to data from the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, in Spain there are about 25.8 million residential properties. And if it is taken into account that last year 14,621 complaints were filed by occupation, it would have affected only 0.056% of these dwellings. And if we used the number of proceedings initiated, the General Council of the Judiciary says that it would have affected only 0.016% of the houses. So, if we compare the eviction data and the occupation data, I understand that it is clear where we should put the emphasis and where we should act from the institutions. I think it's a serious problem with all these numbers. And that's why today we've got to make an agreement in front of your initiative, except Vox, because we think it's because we're supposed to be able to get to the occupation because it doesn't have a place, so we have to give it a proper answer. It is clear, therefore, that there are, in our medium, these different realities about the occupation? And for financial reasons, we have to give an answer to those citizens who may be on their way to occupation. Hence we receive that public housing policies are to be strengthened in our middle-way by the development of the law of Housing, which we have several times asked for, and also for the present legislation, the President of the Arriolas was engaged in the opening of his legislation. We believe that by paying a reasonable price, we should all be a decent apartment to carry our life worthy, and that these housing, instead of being empty, should have to fulfill their social function. It is, no doubt, necessary to promote rental policies and to increase the parks of the public dwellings. And, as we said before, 100 percent of the budget left out to re-gain, that's the way it's met. So I think we should place the phenomenon of occupation in the proper place. Let's not come here, trying to create an alarm, give us a lot of data. I think there's another way the alarms are already on. And, as we said before, the deal, I think, is good. I want to thank all the spokesman here because it was possible. And, well, I agree with Fernandez de Betoño, right? : No one, homeless, homeless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Passing the answer turn, representative of Basque Populara-Ciudadans. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u108	Good. Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, the debate has gone a little bit from what we talked about at first. Nothing new under the ground as far as positions are concerned. That's why I used to say it a little earlier: there are words here and certain issues on which groups often react, each within their sphere, with unusual dialectic virulence. What happens is that, man, the arguments you make don't convince us either. There are subjects: the subject of Basque, the bench such; the subject of occupation, the other benches. What has missed me in this case is that you have been able..., and in that I recognize your ability, and I recognize your ability, Mr. Andueza, which, by the way, I do not get rid of your advice either, and I will try to follow you. Forgive me, I'm that, since I'm not a professional politician, I'm still learning, but I try. You have had a lot of skill because you have managed to attract the Basque Nationalist Party to the amendment that you have put forward, which not only turns the one we were proposing, but, well, if we put together the speeches because they seem to have convinced them. In Congress, as far as I know, they usually hold something else. We have tabled this amendment because we really understand that many Basques are concerned about it. This is a matter of real concern. And we believe... As you well said, Mr Andueza – I am right – I do not want to pass many laws and fatten the legal system because yes, as, by the way, it is usually done elsewhere, but it would just have to change some procedural elements, right? Maybe I haven't been heard before. I'm sorry, but quite a few of the things you've commented on I'd said before too, we'd commented on them, I'd established them a little in defense of the proposal I had put before you. But, well, maybe we each come here to read our speech and at the end the part of the parliamentary debate is forgotten. But, anyway, it's a matter of concern, and I think it's really a matter of concern. And we can look the other way, but the reality in this sense is clumsy. Then he was talking to me, "No, it's that in Euskadi...", "You have to talk to us here only...", "It's that in Euskadi the...", "You come to generate social alarm, because the cases are minimal". Look, there are many cases; it's that one would already be too much. He says, "No, they just made it up." Here you are taken away from the house for going to buy the bread – to be told to the lady of Portugalete, to be told to Bitori. I mean, sure, yeah, man, it's like that, it's like that. Of course, as long as it is not your home, because there is no problem, but of course, when it is the home of others, because then the problems arise. And I also miss that – come on, I don't miss coming from the benches...– the..., because the typical, what usually happens, mix it up a little bit: "No, it's that article 47, such"... Man, yeah. By the way, the Constitution that has taught us, I think it is outdated, it lacks reform 135. I imagine that's why you keep it, because it has the previous wording. Perhaps that's why they also withdrew their proposal the other day – a pity, because I had prepared it enough. But, in any case, article 47, as you well know, must be interpreted in accordance with article 53 of the Constitution, which states that these rights – we call them guiding principles of social and economic policy – must be interpreted in accordance with the laws that develop them: article 53 in fine, which is usually said. But, well, listen, then, you can come and soften the Constitution, and I encourage you to continue doing so because I think it is the one that has given us a great deal of peace. Peace, however, is sometimes disturbed by such issues. I repeat: we can agree on much of the things that have been said about access to housing, we can agree. I believe that it is necessary to guarantee from the public authorities, indeed, access to decent housing, in addition to rent. By the way, without controlling prices, it has only served to destroy the rental market. That, by the way, of controlling prices, Franco already did, and look how bad it has come out: until recently we have not been able to recover a little normality. And that's why I've missed it so much – I was hoping for this kind of reaction from the other groups, this kind of reaction that basically doesn't seem to want to get into the bottom of the matter – I've been very surprised by the Basque Nationalist Party. But it's a problem that really worries all Basques a lot. It's a problem that, well, I guess, if you agree with this of the "kick on the door" because it's floors or real estate belonging to the banks, well, I don't know, maybe Kutxabank, where you have some control, or even other Basque banking entities, so I don't know what they think about this aspect. But, finally, it was a bit of a debate, which was not a debate, which I expected. However, we will continue to work from other institutions, also from Congress, to ensure that freedom is effectively protected or the right to property is protected. And also, of course, that the right to decent housing is protected through the action that public authorities have to do in this regard. But this, gentlemen, was another debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u109	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u110	Yes, hello again. You'll excuse me, but on the second round I wanted to keep my speech to Gaste, because the Gaste name is making this P.P.C. campaign especially, since they've long since lost mayorship. It's true that the accounts of signature last period are not only called Gaste, they're making fun of Donoston, Portugal, or Irune, but they've been beating the ghost of the occupation for a long time, perhaps because they feel the nostalgia of Alexander and Marotus. By the way, they're in that campaign demanding three-year prison convictions for the ochres. And this is certainly a folly, when the Almanimians are not to be confounded with usurpation, when, as I have said before, they have two years of punishment. But, well, they will know; they seek to create an alarm, and to do so. But the occupation of the Gastians is very few, and in those few there are a fairly correct PP. Few are there: In 1919 only 20 houses occupied during the whole month of the month of the month, and even in the year of January, about the recent developments of Congress, which are the most insignificant of all. And the occupations which occur have, moreover, a clear origin in the Gasteia: In PPk years, and especially in the time of Alfonso Alonsuso, the water-successistic speccular policy. The occupation of the Recleors, and the neighbouring Olathe, which they so often mention, has not arisen from nothing. In the original, there are new cities, which I think were not badly stated, but it is certain that they have been mistaken or have joined with a demagogue of the housing. For the general unarrillistic plan of Gastae 2000, which made the birth of Tortillao Alonsos, was planned in the event of a new 150,000 new apartment, still less than 300,000. The things I'm talking about are gastrics, but in many ways I think they can be moved to many other places in the Basque Country. And it must be said that the occupation of Rekaleo was made in the days of Marotus. It is not, therefore, understood now that they are in opposition, to exaggerate and shake this subject so much. It would be better if the empty houses were mobilized and introduced by politics to market. We're trying to do that from EH Collect. We believe that not only the Gastename, the Euscal Autonomy, in the whole community, the question of occupation is not to be simplified, and that it is necessary to assume strong policies to respond to the state of social retirement, to increase the number of social housing offers, to increase the number of social housing, and to fight against empty homes. And of course the price of the apartment must be limited in some way, and therefore we have laid down a law-proposing to limit the rental prices on the table, which we believe would be of great use to this subject. In conclusion, I would like to thank my dear Adezez, for his approach to this middle course. And I'm trying to tell him that we're hoping to limit the rents that have so much connection with this subject to the discussion of that law that we're close to that constructive attitude. And I'm trying to tell Mrs. Zaleski that I'm glad to find him in this EAJ center, and that we haven't found the Gastine mayor for a few days. I mean, on the threshold of winter, a few busy houses swept over the neighbourhood of Olathe without any trial of city planning, and without explaining what will happen with the people who live there. We hope, therefore, from now on, that the example is not that of Olathe, but that of the constructive measures which we have acquired in this medium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u111	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. We represent the Podemos-IU team together. Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u112	Thank you. Well, I was telling you in the first intervention, it's that you by the very good tone you use... I have a maxim that I learned many years ago: "The courteous does not take away the brave." The brave thing, surely, we have a different perspective than it supposes. But, of course, it cannot be isolated from the campaign that your party, together with the People's Party, Vox and certain media, is making of the criminalization of poverty and of the simplification of a phenomenon that, of course, is complex. But it also gives me some laugh that we can say in this Parliament that the right to property in the Spanish state, in the Basque country or in the European Union is not protected. If there's anything protected by law, I think it's the right to property. We have already mentioned this, the Spanish Constitution itself, the articles we have cited from the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act, Law 5/2018, which, if I am not mistaken, you also supported together with the People's Party and the PDECAT. So, of course, if you say that sort of thing, because the answer I think the rest of the groups also have to go along. And I believe that we have also responded to him with the development of public policies, with all the differences that we have between the four parliamentary groups that have signed that compromise. And I will say it again: the rights of the legitimate and the legitimate owners of a home are protected. I think Mr Andueza has made a reference to the judicial issue. It is true that the part of the media must be improved – I think you are also working on that issue of the judicial system – so that where these bottlenecks occur correct them. But I believe that the response to the phenomenon of occupation, which you in such a twisting way manipulate and oversize, must go, in part, so that we have agreed the four groups – I take it to thank us for having reached that agreement – for the development of public policies, of the Euskadi Housing Act, of the new state housing law. And speaking of legislation, the party with which you form a coalition was the one that lowered the criminal type of the crime of usurpation. I mean, I'm saying you want to change a law that too, even if it was by mistake, but they did. And speaking of occupations, to me, it is true and I try to do so many times, Mrs Berasaluze, I do not always like to talk about any of the examples of the Spanish state, but I think that there is one issue that you – the People's Party-Citizens – are directly responsible for, and also Vox, who supports you in the Community of Madrid. You know that they sold 3,000 social housing units to an investment fund and that there is a sentence that obliges the use and its social function. But there are 3,000 dwellings, there are 3,000 dwellings – compare them with the data that different spokespersons have given about the crimes of housing usurpation – and 3,000 dwellings of vulnerable families in the Community of Madrid to which, right now, you, surely with one signature – I do not know if your vice president Aguado or President Ayuso can restore their social function. I am saying this so that you can reflect on this subject. And then, I also encourage you in Euskadi... When we talked about very advanced housing policies, well, during that development of housing policies, mistakes were also made. And until 2003 there was one, for example. So, I, for example, think there is another problem – tomorrow let's talk about it –: there are families, for example in Bentaberri, in Donosti, 550, who are in charge of changing their contract modalities from a fund-buitre. I have seen no initiative by your party to defend these families from the change of contract terms of that vulture fund. Y, por tant, además de todo eso, y de todo lo que hemos dicho en la transacción... We will also do what we shall do here and in the state, solicitation of rents, and the ardent defence of that policy which is working well, both in the Basque and in the Spanish State. For instance, in other countries of Europe, where parties of our opposite parts govern them, they set up such measures in motion, and are extremely effective. And, of course, we're going to set up those restrictions of property and rent, or we're going to try to set them up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u113	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u114	Just to say that, of course, of course there are housing problems. But, gentlemen of the left, the occupation which you support only exacerbates the problem; it does not solve it. Let us work for a solution that guarantees the right to housing and also guarantees private property. Let's get out of cheap shortcuts and get to work. They say the occupation has dropped this year. Yes, that's true, but maybe it's because we've been confined? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u115	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u116	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Martínez said in her first speech that the Okupas must be thrown out at the very moment when the crime takes place; I can assure you that the government has acted, a little late, but as far as you are concerned, you can remain calm because the Francos are no longer in the peace of Meirás. EH Collector: I hope you have your protection in the law of the Spanish courts and of the Spanish Government, which is around the rents. And when he comes here logically, we'll probably have a chance to discuss and make an agreement. And to Mr. Gordillo: look, here you don't come to learn; here you come to cry and learn, among other things. I have to admit that I think it was very unfair in your comment on professional policy. Look, if you don't want to be a professional politician, you can do two things: first, give up your seat, and, second, you can donate your salary, the salary you earn as a parliamentarian, to any charity, which will surely be very well received. Of course there are issues that provoke angry reactions in certain groups in this House, including mine. Look, of course we react, and we react decisively, to inequality, to homophobia, to xenophobia, to injustice and also to demagogy. I can assure you, and today I think you have been able to verify it. Look, we're not here to make our speech; we're here to debate. Another thing is that you don't like the things we tell you. But when you bring a proposal to this House, we have the right, and in this case the obligation, to debate it, even if you do not like what we say. And, look, I'm just going to tell you one thing: here, with the different groups we discussed, we put a few arguments on the table. You've come out to the replica and, to face those arguments, you haven't put any of your own on the table. None. In any case, look, I believe that Mr Martínez Zatón has referred to a report on the number of dwellings in the Community of Madrid with the possibility of being bought, dwellings intended for social rent. I'm going to give you another piece of information, another piece of news from October 17th, when a vulture fund that had, approximately, 1,700 houses that as a legal imperative had to return to the City Hall of Madrid, do you know what Mrs. Ayuso told you? That I didn't want them, that I didn't want them. So, when you come here to give lessons from "I don't know what," first, check it out. Second, argue. But, please, in no case do you come here to demagogy from a "good" that, of course, right now I tell you, we don't believe it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u117	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eternate patriot shouldn't speak a word. So, after the discussion, we'll vote for the original text of the proposition of Euscala Populara-Ciudadans as well as the other. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters, 6; the opponents, 69; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u118	So, not allowed original text. Next, we'll vote together Podemos-IU, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect and Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the assembly are 42; 75; the supporters are 68; the opponents are 7; Abstations,0; white,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u119	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. For the moment, I interrupt the whole meeting until four o'clock. Yes, Mr. Grakiles?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. With your permission, from here on the seat. I've asked to apologize to Mr. Casanova. This morning, the discussion we had, I spoke with memory, and I did not do what I liked. I assure you, Mr. Casanova, there has been no cruelty, but it is true that I have not spoken wisely. So I want to apologize, Mr. Casanova, for what happened. Azaltzen naiz: prentaurreko bat aipatu due eta betan Casanova jaunak esan zuela ez zutela konturik egin eta abiadura handiko trenaren bi edo hiru kilometrerekin ordaintzen zela gaurko mozioan eskatutakoa. Eta Casanova jaunak hitzez hitz esandakoa hauxe da: "We talk about 15,000 self-sufficient in hospitality, assuming, and this is an approximate calculation, so what we propose is that the dedicated games be expandable. Parts such as GIR, which guarantee a right and can therefore be expanded as more applicants qualify for that right. But if we talk about 1,000 autonomous people and an average of 1,000 euros per month of aid, we could be talking about another 15 million a month. It would be one kilometer of TAV for the first of the measurements and 600 meters of TAV for the other. Well, with five or ten kilometers of TAV, from here to the summer we save the hospitality." Horiek dira zuk hitzez hitz esandakoak eta, beraz, this is what he said. Niretzat ondorioa berdin-berdina da, gaur goizean pentsatzen nuena pentsatzen jarraitzen duet, egia bathe da ez doublaa zuhurtziaz egin.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u121	Okay, that's good. Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. It'll be taken in the act. You want to say something?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u122	Thank you for reading. You missed another part, too. When the question was asked, the measures were coppers, and there was no question of where to get the money from. I said he was quadrified, in a way of profanity. And I put a metaphor on it. Sometimes you say: "This thing is worth three Anoeta fields," or "Three kilometre TAV," but I didn't tell him at any time that money should be taken out of those games. It was a metaphor. I think it's cleared up, and I admit it's apologising and aclaification. There were reasons for mistake or confusion. But, well, that's how it stays, and that's fine.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u123	Well, if we get this straight, we'll see each other here at four o'clock. At two o'clock in the afternoon the meeting stopped at thirty-four. At four o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u124	Good afternoon, everyone. The seventh point on the theme list: "Punciation of the same law as the Parlamentary Group, of the consequence of burning the camp of the Moria refugees, and of taking measures to prevent the situation of the refugees. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Representative of the EH Collectors, Mr. Otero, has the word to present and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u125	"I've been told that in New York, at the corner of Broadway and 26th Street, in the middle of the winter, a man will pray every night for shelter for those who are naked. The world doesn't change that way, men and women are not better taken, the burden does not shorten. But some men and women have a bed one night, not a cold wind in the shelter, and are walking towards them in the street." Good afternoon, everyone. Labo told us about this Bertol Brech poem I wanted to begin today. If you understand, tonight's initiative is easy to understand. It's good for us, too. We know today's proposal doesn't change the world, we don't want to deceive anyone. Although the Basque Country has been brought by the Collector, the demand is corral, it is pledged: the engagement of the refugees, which we took in January, in Greece, on the island of Chios. But before we talk about the initiative, I want to say hello to the box. There's a place where the Refused Welcome, the Humanistary Sea Salvation, and the Zapores are members of the Society. He had our confession and gratitude for his work. Your work is vital on both sides. On the one hand, what you do in your everyday life. Because you build a shelter that the Po says with your actions: Welcome teams, Father Mari's health contacts, the kitchens of Zapore... They offer shelter. But all these groups and hundreds of volunteers around do a different job. These are times when we seek the simple, quite simple, in front of the speeches and attacks of the ultra right. Simple to reach the affair of refugees from the point of view of human rights and solidarity, and not from the disracisms and Discourses and Practices. He had been working to place his gaze on the refugees of the Basque People in a good direction. As I have said, the origin of the expedition to-day is situated on the voyage which the party made to Greece. We were at Athens, where we saw the consequences of the decision of the government on the right side of Mitsatakis, where our father and I visited Mari. All the crowd is disfigured, nothing remains but a little. Then we went to Chios. There, we knew the work of the health world in the Sea Salvation, and we also had the chance of seeing the camp of the Vial refugees. When we see what we saw there, it is hard to believe that they were inside Europe, it is hard to say that the European Union is the remunerative of human rights. If the situation was tremendous when we were in January, if we could already see in Chios a huge manifestation of racist cut, the months after it all accelerated. To the previous situation of indignity in the conditions of reception, paralysis in the relocations, the lack of attention, overcrowding, insanitaryness, the human blockade..., the fascist raids, with obvious impunity from the authorities, the attacks on asylum seekers and NGOs joined them. Then came the reception of refugees on the Evros River, on the land border with Turkey, at gunfire and tear gas; the massive hot returns, with the complicity of the European Union; the suspension of the right of asylum, violating the Geneva Convention and the principle of non-refoulement. And all the difficulties added by the COVID: portuak itxita, erreskate-itsasontzia geldirik, birkokatzeak etenda, asylum-mekanismoak etenda Grezian, hut Hungarian eta hainbat lekutan ere, until reaching the infamous fire of Moria in September and the next chaos that so much helplessness and images has left. Moria, in short, is the drop that fills a glass that Europe has been filling in after decision for years. We can say, without doubt, that European migration policy on the ground today is not a policy aligned with human rights, it is not a policy designed to provide safe migration routes and protection for vulnerable people, nor to comply with maritime rescue legislation. It's the opposite. It is a failed policy, focused on deterrence, containment of persons fleeing third countries, strengthening of external borders, detention of persons and acceleration of unfair border procedures. A policy that has turned the Mediterranean into a large mass grave and vital migration projects into a nightmare. A perverse sequence of systematic human rights violations and an obstacle race that begins, on the initiative and sponsorship of the European Union, far away from our external borders. And it's coming from afar, even though we're being tried to hide. In the midst of the humanitarian crisis, following the massive arrivals of people fleeing the Syrian war (2015), the first Valletta Summit was held in November 2015. There it was decided to launch the emergency trust fund for Africa, with €4.2 billion. Giving money to Niger, Chad, Mali, Mauritania, Eritrea, a whole strip. Funds nurtured with development cooperation funds, ironically, but using them to curb the arrival of immigrants close to Europe's borders. How? Purchasing military equipment, surveillance equipment, construction of border posts, establishment of detention centres, detention of immigrants... In short, the externalisation of the European border where human rights do not prevail. Barbarities in the first of the European fences, more than 2,000 kilometers from the borders. Agreements with neighbouring countries have and have had the same objective. The European Union-Turkey agreement, endowed with EUR 6 billion in March 2016, focused directly on the containment of migrants, so there are three and a half million refugees in Turkey today, and the reinforcement of the Turkish coast guard. Control. It also established the perverse third-country secure mechanism by which asylum applications are systematically refused. The agreement of Italy-Libya, even worse. Agreement with the so-called coast guard, which is actually a paramilitary group. Money that finances the purchase of arms, border surveillance, detention centres, where there is, in contrast, the sale of slaves, trafficking in women, torture, etc., to the extent that the agreement has brought a complaint of crimes against humanity to the International Criminal Court. Or the agreement, lastly, the European Union-Morocco, with EUR 140 million, to keep Morocco out of sub-Saharan migration, using military and security supplies for this purpose, and to accept returns from refugees from third countries. We have a policy of fences, of successive fences. To which I have explained are added the fences proper to the borders of southern Europe, with a whole praxis aimed at expulsion. And then there is the plug of relocations, which does not work, collapsing the reception capacity of the first recipients, like Greece, thanks to the infamous Dublin Regulation. And for dessert, the last and multiple hindrances to integration for those who have overcome all the previous obstacles, in which today I am not going to delve, but there has been much talk here. All of this, together, sends a very clear message. The message is "don't come, don't come." But, despite that, they are still coming. One of the keys gave it to us in Queos one of the translators who help Humanitarian Maritime Rescue, a Syrian engineer, who told us: "Everything other than killing us will not stop us, because we escape death. I just escaped Idlib's bombs. I got it after fifteen attempts, and in one of them they died quite a lot." Why is this happening? Because the increase in control simply causes the worst conditions to be chosen in order to be able to try. You choose the invisibility, the night, the fogs, the insecure and changing routes... Mafia pasture. And we want to make the situation even tougher: in September the European Commission presented the new Immigration and Asylum Pact in the European Union. It's negotiating now. We are going to a scheme of hardening, of accepting the ultra-rightist demands, of de facto abandoning international legislation. The new migration pact makes compulsory relocation quotas disappear, which had already failed dramatically, and we are going to a "flexible solidarity" scheme. "Flexible solidarity", they call, where each country can choose whether to host refugees, relocate refugees or pay. And what do you pay? For, basically, it pays returns, either to the countries of origin or to supposedly safe third countries. And the new pact focuses on the expansion of accelerated border procedures, leading to the denial of international protection to people who need it, and seeks to enhance the rejection of coming from a safe third country. I ask, is Turkey safe for the Syrians? is Morocco safe for the sub-Saharans? is Libya safe for Nigerian girls brought in for sexual exploitation, to which the mafias force to say that they are elderly so that they do not enter into programmes for the protection of minors? And the pact continues to attribute primary responsibility to the first Member State of entry, which will prevent the Mediterranean countries from solving any of the problems they have today. And in parallel with all this, we reinforce the militarization of the border with billions of euros destined for Frontex and with its goal of deploying 10,000 guards by 2024. The result of European immigration policies is criminal. In Europe, I'd say, there's not a crisis of refugees at the present day, I'd say we're face to face with a human rights and a fit of reception. Today's initiative is simple, as I said. On the average, I want to put two accounts in the value. One, that's funk and that's what he says. I would say that it is my duty to bring all the roads to the Basque Country, and to develop my own policy of imperturbation, and to conduct the conduct of the Exhibition, as far as possible, to bring most of the refugees to the Basque Country. That's an important issue. We know that we have a question of sovereignty with the policy of migration, which allows us not to develop our politics properly, but I would beg you to consider an element. During the preceding law, between Autogobernu's reports asked by Ponce, the Bridge was an update on the report. In it, 37 transfers were not identified in order to fill the state of Guernica, and among them there are immigration policies. We believe that this new or acquired Imigration director ought to be very present, and that he ought to be prepared for it in his object. I'm going to finish. Migration is an old account, older than history. There are very few who wish to migrate, but many who see themselves bound to sleep with a migration project. We Basques have sometimes been emigrants, sometimes by financial reasons, sometimes by political persecutions and by war. We know the difference between a good and bad reception. Due to the structure of the system we live in, migration processes will not be interrupted. Reasons are too great: poverty, war, hunger, persecution policy... Many reasons. And the countries of Europe have a remarkable responsibility in all this, for all this is only an ugly part of the money of our well-being, although we wish to become invisible. As for the usual reasons, he is gathering together new reasons. According to the United Nations, at the present day the effects of the change of climate are the cause which most affects offsets. And it's billions of them. The irony is this one more time: what the north global influences, the global wing suffers. And, as you know, the data is getting worse. It's a different plan for us. Of course, we have to deal with structural issues, but as Brech's poem says, so long as we don't improve human relations, we have to ask ourselves for a few minimum. We owe the naked to those who are close to human rights based on migration, beyond the miserable policy which Europe offers, in which the greatest part of the mechanism of the world are directed as far as possible from our borders. Civil society has rendered the euscal pavilion very high. And that's why I want to say thank you, welcome to the Sea Salvation, the Zapores, all Volunteers, and in general to all those who try to show and encourage the Basque Country. He's the best antidote in front of the Xnophobic and the ultra right. Therefore they seek to prevent your activity and your existence, so they attack you. I am happy to-day that the introduction, this simple initiative, will receive a vast protection. In particular, Miren Galástegui and Loverne Ipiñazan, we are a part of the kiosk team, you've facilitated the agreement today. Meónica Hernando, too, I know it was part of the deal. During the preparation of the intervention of today, I have come to recall in the short time when the two people who lived together in Greece came to me together to see a detail of what we had heard together in the camp of the Vial refugees. And they called us, full of irony: "Hey, hey, Europe, how are you doing? We are human beasts. We are human beasts. "Hoola, Europe, Acómo estais? Somos seres human. Yo creo que no he felto más vergünza en mi videa. No quiero Entrar en más detalkes, que hay muchos, I only ask that we should be conscious of the size and operation of the challenge. And I wanted to finish – and I want to say second messity – with a phrase that Helena Maleno recently said, one of so many committed people to whom we have so much to thank, who rightly said: "By crossing a border people do not die. He dies because we make policies that make them die." Let's change those policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u126	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing the teams that were running the corrections, the Mist Group. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u127	Good afternoon. Forward, our solidarity with all refugees. This issue is one of the most relevant in our world. Perhaps today is the day that the limitation of time and the health cord to which I am subjected is the most painful. From all media, they work with a mantra: "Vox is racist." The defachability of those who claim it is remarkable. We say yes to immigration, but to immigration according to the needs of both those who come and those who are already. And this does not have an apex of racism, Members of Parliament. Let us make a faithful, noble and objective analysis of the terrible situation of the Moria camp and the others in Greece. The data I will give below come from several sources, some of the refugees themselves. Says a kid, "They treat us like dogs." "I'd rather die," said another seven-year-old. "It was a camp for 2,000 and there were 13,000." "Living here is inhuman." The majority of people, 70%, are from Afghanistan, but there are people of up to 70 nationalities." "We only have one meal a day." With regard to this situation, then some of you have dared to tell us that we want you to die, that we do not care that there are tragedies. They put the cart in front of the oxen: the Lesbos disaster is not the result of Vox's policy, it is the result of Europe's irresponsible policy and so many national governments that give hope to a poor people who are really having a bad time in their countries of origin. Look at the immigrants, the children who live like abandoned dogs or, worse off, those who die on journeys without destination and tell me what we have to offer you, gentlemen of the 2030 Agenda. Our country and the rest of Europe are crumbling in our hands. There is no employment, much less we generate it, and refugee centres, far from becoming places of hope or integration into society, are genuine ghettos, where children become real floating individuals, forced to make a living in any way. The case of the miners is paradigmatic: young people who, in the face of a society that is not able to insert them, are often caught up in crime. And this is what you don't understand. In Vox we don't criminalize anyone. We criminalize their irresponsible migration policies that give rise to these circumstances. Let us clarify things: Spain is not in the position to be able to welcome so many people, Spain cannot give them a dignified life, a better life. And yet you insist. They insist on an irresponsible policy of appeal, which gives petrol to illegal mafias, which gives strength to families who play it all, without knowing that it is in exchange for anything. Believe me when I tell you that everyone in my party is shaking our guts watching the terrible situation of these poor people, but don't keep cheating. Let us help the countries at their origin and, from there, build a future of hope for them and for us. The rest are only policies that serve to clear their conscience for being born in opulence, but not to give them a better life. Let's keep working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u128	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Companals Popular Group-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u129	Thank you, President. I too will be brief; there is an agreement reached between the majority of the parliamentary groups. Well, yes, indeed, it was terrible to see the situation of the refugees, the situation in Moria and, of course, we sympathize with the victims of that situation and those terrible moments. We also wish Mr Otero a speedy recovery and, well, we also thank him for bringing this initiative, that initiative which we want to summarize in our amendment. We do trust the European Union; we do trust the Council, we do trust that Parliament can support, decide, debate...; we do trust the Commission and what the Commissioners are doing and the effort they are making, despite the shortcomings that they are there. We continue to believe that action within the framework of European Union policies is the right way to tackle the problems that arise. More than "the problems that are generated" – they are not "problems" – address the complicated human situations around migration, shelter, and people's asylum in their goal of coming to Europe. Well, there's news. For us it is good news to the extent that they are being developed. There's a new pact. The analysis, the work of a new immigration and asylum pact is working. There have been debates through the European Parliament, the Commission... Different commissioners are working. The European Union is making important efforts to overcome those shortcomings, those shortcomings that I referred to at the outset. There has also been a recent visit to Spain by the Commissioner for the Interior, Ylva Johansson, and, in the same way as to Spain, to the other countries of the European Union. The effort is there. It has been identified that there is a problem and needs to be overcome. And we, that is the method or framework in which we focus: the European Union and the possibility of making a critical analysis of what has happened to overcome some shortcomings. In Europe, the situation is a matter of concern. The various European states and regions, such as this, look to the European Union to overcome inefficiencies, breaches of previous regulations or agreements. Mr Otero has already referred to the Dublin Regulation and, indeed, it must be considered that it has been fundamentally unfulfilled and has certainly not served the purpose and purposes that were intended. And it has had serious shortcomings, of course, certainly, of conception and concept. We understand that, within this framework of action, of efforts, we can do things from the different regional governments of the European Union, autonomous, even from the states, but they have to be coordinated efforts from our analysis and shared. And that is the framework, the action of the European Union, where we have to work, we understand and support it. That is what my group understands that it should do, and that is why we have moved it in this way, regardless of understanding that the situation is serious. Well, and indeed, moreover, it is at stake for citizens, for many organisations, not only government policies or administrations, but for many others working in the field of support for refugees, asylum seekers, migrants, isn't it, indeed, at stake the credibility of the European Union also in these migration policies, is it not? And all this requires a better, more determined action than has been achieved so far. That must be acknowledged, and I think it is demanding. I too, of the interviews or of the statements I have seen from certain Commissioners, the Commissioner for Migration, the Commissioner for the Interior, because I think that we are going to try to find more efficient formulas, right?, in relation to this issue. And we trust that effort, we trust the Government of the European Union, in its commitment to human rights. That's not at stake for us. The European Union is criticized for many things, it is not perfect for its action, but I believe that the commitment to human rights is at the forefront of its political declaration. Then, indeed, we must perfect all that political engineering and structure, and really do it. I think that's the will. Well, we have seen a compromise amendment, which is basically correct, right? but we do not share it in its entirety. We do not share, above all, the fact that we have to put more weight on the administrative framework of our Administration, with more directions or with more posts on this issue. There is, and has also worked, and we have seen reports from the Administration itself, and actions on refugees, on asylum, on integrating into forums for debate on these things, and for action. I think that's okay, don't I? That is, to continue to increase and fatten the administration, we are doing it every day and some initiatives always talk about that, new observatories, new directions, new institutes... And, in this regard, I believe that there is already where these policies of collaboration can be developed, for us, and of coordination with the State, with the European Union, and to do so also in our autonomous sphere. We have a chance to pick up refugees, asylum seekers, to understand that we have an active role as a rich society, right?, with the problems we can have, and get involved. In this respect, what we wanted in our amendment, in our simple amendment, was for the Basque Parliament to support the measures taken. I say again, there are measures under way, there are debates within the bodies of the Union's government and the Union's Parliament... And to support these measures taken in the institutions of the European Union – Parliament, Commission, Council – in relation to policies relating to migrants and refugees. We are in favour of the political union of Europe, its formulas for joint action, its methods and its organisation. Sometimes they fail, but what we want is for each day to be perfected. That is also our approach on such a sensitive subject as this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u130	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Galástegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u131	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Firstly, as it cannot be otherwise, I would like to welcome and thank you for your presence and, above all, for your work in representing the NGOs that are with us today. Thanks to Humanitarian Maritime Rescue, Ongi Etorri Errefuxiatuak, Zaporeak. Eskerrik asko is stuck where he is. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, last September we witnessed a humanitarian disaster, a humanitarian tragedy, here, right here, in our old Europe. Here next door, here, next to some fantastic beaches, next to those places where we enjoy pleasure trips, holidays. A Europe in which, despite the fact that almost all of us live as God and are primarily concerned with a lot of nonsense, these things happen. It happens that there are many people – women, men and children of all kinds and conditions – who leave their home, who leave the life they had. And they don't leave because, yes, they don't go either out of whim or because suddenly they get an irrepressible desire to do tourism; they are forced to leave and flee to survive. They flee from war, from the absence of freedom, from hunger, from violence, from poverty, from death announced. And, of course, what we cannot, indeed, is to remain silent in the face of the deaths of human beings who seek what we have: a better, more prosperous and freer life. We cannot remain impassable to all those people who are in absolute lack of prospects for the future, without hope, in conditions of vulnerability and, especially and uniquely, in a context of war conflicts and human rights violations. The fire in the Moria camp, in Lesbos, where more than 13,000 people were already crowded in a regrettable situation – of which approximately 4,000 minors – has aggravated the already unbearable situation in which they have been trying to survive all the refugees in that camp. And it puts us in front of the mirror of our own indignity, because it is a shame, but it is so, because, although we all know the existence of places like that, nothing moves, nothing activates, until a television gives us back the image of shame. And that which we should know, we should remember, we should remember: not many years ago – because there are still a lot of people who suffered it that are still alive among us – we were also refugees and we had to flee from the same thing, from the same thing that they are fleeing today. We had to flee from war, persecution, summary executions, hunger, despair and death. And they welcomed us, ladies and gentlemen, they welcomed us and sought conditions for us to survive. And as they would if we gave them the opportunity, we did not waste the opportunity and we showed that with a little solidarity, support and accompaniment we can rebuild our future and a dignified life. Ladies and gentlemen, the Europe I was talking about must react to what is happening. It is a question of moral order and also of legal order, of compliance with international law, of compliance with international humanitarian law. Europe must design... I agree with you, Mr Barrio, that, indeed, European policies must be the basis for the movement of this issue that affects everyone, but you must design and plan a common asylum and immigration policy aimed at fulfilling the mandate of the right of asylum and the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and therefore put in place all the necessary measures for its implementation. We have approved it in other institutions, and therefore we insist here today: it is urgent to introduce humanitarian visas into the European agenda that will allow safe access to Europe for asylum seekers; it is also necessary to open decent reception centres in areas bordering the countries in conflict and to distinguish criteria and systems for the distribution of refugees among European countries under criteria of co-responsibility and solidarity, but also, and as a nuclear issue, it is essential that Europe recognizes the value of diversity and is influenced by it through a regulation of migratory flows that includes this perspective. Diversity, ladies and gentlemen – I always say, I know that I am a heavy one – is cultural enrichment, it is social enrichment, but above all, it is human. It expands our horizons. We think more and we think better. And that tool makes us think and makes us exercise respect, which is a tool that makes us more free. But, moreover, that diversity is the future that is already here and has also come to stay. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Otero recalled, at the end of January, that is, just before the outbreak of the pandemic, representatives of the Intergroup for the Defence of the Rights of Migrants and Refugees, we had the unfailing opportunity to visit the Camp de Vial, in Queos, and to give ourselves a bruce with the reality that is lived in a field like that, which is very similar, cousin brother, to that of Moria, and I assure you that it prints, prints, prints character. And that's not what I walked through that adage that says, and that says, that an image is worth more than a thousand words. In fact, you have you in a lot of places to be able to look at those pictures of how exactly is the place where all these people are located. And it is not difficult to imagine, as Mr Otero also said, that the harsh living conditions of overcrowding and health and misery have not ceased to worsen with the invaluable help of COVID-19. What we saw, I assure you, leaves no one indifferent. I haven't been so ashamed of myself in my life, either. And the reality of those camps, which hits you like a punch in the middle of your stomach, I think it has a lot to do with us being able to reach this agreement today in this easy way, because we have been witnesses in situ to the misery that we were able to observe. We also saw, fortunately, other things. We saw the work done there by many non-governmental organizations, with much effort and with many obstacles. I will remember, for example, the Red Cross; Doctors Without Borders; Elna, who had a beautiful project for women and mothers... I believe that this agreement is not the result of chance; it is the result of seeing and, also, of convincing, I think intimate, that it is important to stop looking at our own navel. And if so, by force of blows, then welcome be. I am final, and I would like to make a few brief comments on the agreement, specifically on points 3, 4 and 5 of the compromise amendment. Firstly, on the third point, it is a matter of justice to thank all the entities, and I would especially like to thank Iñigo Mijangos, who has not been able to come today, who invited us to this very hard but unforgettable experience of the field of Vial, in Queos, and who has given us the guidelines and directed us, in some way, to explore these reception routes that we gather at that point, to welcome especially vulnerable people in Basque Country. As far as the room is concerned, I just want to remind you that we already talked about this at the presentation of the general lines of your department, which was backed up by Councilwoman Artolazabal last Monday, and I had yesterday... Tuesday, no, yesterday, no, Tuesday, I had the opportunity to attend a workshop on this topic organized by the City Council of Vitoria, in which a representative of the department – I don't remember the name, but I think it can be Patxi... of the Source – presented, explained and anticipated what the future Directorate of Migration and Asylum will be. Finally, and with regard to the fifth point, I would like to point out that the sixth plan, which appears in the fifth point, as I say, will have to be developed throughout this parliamentary term – with other complementary actions that we will be going to see – and I understand that this plan is going to do essentially to consolidate a global strategy of acceptance from the beginning, of collaboration, of co-responsibility and of solidarity, as is also reflected in the government agreement that we signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that this tragedy confronts us ourselves, our own indifference, but from time to time, fortunately, I do not know whether why we decide it or why we are forced to react, we do, and from time to time we put a small granite of sand to advance those objectives of equality, justice and the effective exercise of human rights. It's not enough, but for now, that's what I'm staying with. I thank all the groups that are going to support this initiative by Bildu, and I would ask the People's Party, the People's Group, that, indeed, if you do not actually agree with what you call, Mr Barrio, "an enlargement of the structure of the Government", you can vote for points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, good evening to everyone. Chief department, congressmans, good evening to everybody. And I've given a special welcome to all those who came here today, to invite them. Welcome in the name of the euubertians, and I think in the name of the whole legislature. And thank you for all your work and all the work you do for human rights. Thank you very much. A special farewell, be sure, and Mrs. Galástegui is talking about it, to Mr Mijangos, the chairman of the Sea Humanity. Unfortunately, he couldn't be here because he's working with foreign government institutions, but he has declared his solidarity to all the groups we've made this agreement. Then a good-bye for him. Well, if I agree with Mr. Otero and Mrs. Gallarástegui, I'll try to make my little report. "Las fronta no endienden de dolor." These words are 83 years ago, when Joseph Antonio Aguirre, the President, was obliged to go exile from his beloved Euskade, by the civil war. The Basques know what it's like to be out of town under circumstances. It is now for us, therefore, to endeavour not to reflect what we have suffered in other men by the waters of rights at that time, and to help those who are in the same condition. If we bring these words from President Aguirre to 2020, after 83 years, we still find their meaning. As it happened in civil war, the important revolutions of human rights are now occurring. And our topic to-day goes directly to the waters of human rights. Migration is not a state of the moment, it's not a coyuncture, it's just an organic reality, Europe and Basque. Thus the challenge to the emigrants must be given in the ethical sphere, not only within the legal sphere, but also in the legal sphere. We believe that Euskadin has been given a consolidarian response to migration. There is only a vision of the Soctial Pactizula, which was introduced a few months ago. In the Social Pact for Migration, which I have just mentioned, there are three very clear starting points. Pluralism as a political premise, defending a society composed of people of diverse cultures and backgrounds, and committed to the values of intercultural pluralism to build inclusive citizenship. Bigarrenez, solidarity as an ethical premise, understanding that new migration challenges constitute an ethical challenge that calls for solidarity, non-discrimination and the equalization of the rights and obligations of immigrant and indigenous populations. And, thirdly, necessity as a pragmatic premise. The need for immigration to meet different needs is worth redundancy, which Basque society demands. Alongside these starting points, various cross-cutting options were also introduced to these points, as well as certain specific commitments from which I would like to draw in particular three: to promote channels that expand the possibilities of regularised immigration and that take into account the reality of the countries of origin, the migration project of the migrant person and the need for the demographic challenge in Europe. A second point is to develop actions aimed at improving quantitatively and qualitatively the reception and integration of applicants for international protection and refugees, both at European and State level and in Euskadi. And to provide the necessary resources for a humanitarian response, suitable for migrants in vulnerable situations, with special attention to women, minors and victims of human rights violence. As I say, this Pactu Society is supported by a majority of Esscal societies. And the points which I have just pointed out, the points which enter this compact, have a direct connection with the medium we've got here today. Howbeit not, in this agreement, we first assert the entire solidarity of the refugees, and sometimes reject the subversions of any kind of human rights. With this we ask the institutions of Europe to take measures to enforce the international legislation which surrounds the asshole. Through this agreement, we reject all kinds of human rights violations, in turn calling on the European institutions to take steps to ensure compliance with international asylum legislation. To the thread of the responsibilities to be received by the several European institutions, the EukMork was introduced in the year's February, because this government has a strong commitment to migration and to the asyll, and even if we don't mention our middle course, I think it's important to bring the Chamber back to this. The Share proposal contains a concrete mechanism for a systematised and responsible sharing of the duty of solidarity based on European values and ideals. In this sense, the ultimate goal and framework of this initiative is coexistence and inclusion. This is the main purpose of institutional action in relation to migration. It is a cross-cutting key to the distribution of the acceptance commitment, and integration in the face of the migration challenge in its different manifestations. A concrete proposal, for this purpose, which directly affects what we now have to do with this non-legislative proposal: refugees and asylum-seekers. Meanwhile, what does Europe do? Now look away from him, and even more, shut his eyes. We find governments paralyzed by the fear of racist populism that they profess in the ultra-right parties. On the other hand, it is especially important to our party that what is referred to in this middle term may be said by Mr. Oterero to produce a specific direction for migration and asylum. This will set up the indirect policy between the different departments of migration and asylum, to act in the circle of the citizenship, the Culturality, and the Immigration of the Immigration. By the hand of the general object which is received on the planet, in which it is said that it will establish a foundation for building a society of future euphora, and strengthening the diversity of culture, which begins to be connected with the right of the whole community and the equality of duties. Astelehen honetan eduki genuen batzorde bikoitzean, Artolazabal Sailburuak aipatu zuen moduen, "in the area of migration and asylum policies, the Basque Government will work on the premise that the reception and integration of migrants must be based on respect for human rights and on the principle of solidarity". At the third point of this agreement, which is the basis of our engagement here, and which is the basis of our engagement at Chios, we say that the Euskágree asks the Euskozo, with the cooperation of foreign governments working in various camps of refugees, and especially the means of being able to obtain as much as possible in the Euskacid. We call it very important or singular in the several camps of the refugees, in order to be able to receive the men who are especially sensitive or vulnerable to the foreign institutions of the working-place. We have penetrated this point especially because it has been the demand of various agents working there. As far as the local health service is concerned, I'm now talking about what we saw in the Vial camp, about the health service, the Greek Government, in this case, abandons all responsibility to the marine Humanitarian volunteers. This fundamental service, which is to be given theoretically, denies all the refugees, who hear their evil or what passes to them, and what is the answer? "Páse thinks it's por la tarde y le gatender." "Quien esta a la tarde?" Salvamento Marítimus Humantari. That's the daily reality they live with. And we must give this situation a solution between us all. Let us help them come to us until they begin from the moment when they come out of their countries by force, and have a worthy life. Protecting people especially sensitive. The aim is to protect all refugees and all refugees; they are people; women victims of systematic violations in the camps, who are subjected to the night curfew so that they are not deprived of their freedom to be women; children without a future; broken families, truncated lives. Not to mention the more than 20,000 people who have died in Mediterranean waters trying to escape that nightmare that lives in their own countries. Not saving lives is inhuman, genocide, it's about human rights. And, well, the agreement we've taken for all this is important to us. Because we continue in the defence of the rights of refugees, and in the form of a society of euphoria strengthens our commitment. When we reached the camp, we heard it said ironically, as Mr. Oterre said, to become a worthy reality: "Welcome to Europe! "I don't know. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Passing over to the teams that haven't issued the corrections together represent the Podemos-IU team. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u135	Good afternoon, everyone. "If you were born in a different land, you could be white or your skin black. In another country you would live and say ‘yes' in a strange language. You'd have raised yourself differently, worse, better. You'd have more luck or less star, friends and games that were different. Dresses you would have, of sack or silk, leather shoes or old alpargata. Or you'd go naked, lost in the jungle. You could read stories and poems or not have books or know letters. You could eat sweets if you wanted, or black bread just a beggar. You could..., you could... For all this, he thinks it is important to have open hands and to welcome those who flee from bloody wars and escape pain and cruel poverty. If you were born in that land, you could be yours, which is his sadness." Joan Raspall, the children's literary author, has summed up a universal and intelligible message in this text: We are all human beings. Our origin, in some measure, is the result of chance, and our duty is to help each other. Greece, Lesbos, Moria... we see them far away, and 13000, as a figure, tells us nothing, but there is a person behind each of those thirteen thousand names, a history, a testimony we cannot forget. Today we are discussing Moria, and we are doing it because what happens in Moria is something that, legally and ethically, falls to all the forces present in this House. And it must be done from a human rights and social justice perspective. It brings us here the humanitarian emergency situation that triggered the fire in September, but let us remember that the conditions of overcrowding and insanity that existed in the camp already had to have forced us to act in advance. Hibai Arbide reported from Greece that the fire in the refugee camp was not a natural accident, but one of the possibilities they had been alerting for years. He added: "What has happened is not only out of indifference, but also as a result of active policies of the Greek Government and the European institutions that have caused this situation". The 10,000 people, the migrators, and the asylizer, have been led to another field and history has been repeated. But just a few weeks ago, and in less than a month of the fire, the new camp has been hit by floods and has had to relocate people to new shops. European humanitarian organisations have denounced, in a joint manifesto, that the new camp in Lesbos was built "hastly", is exposed to the elements and evokes "the misery" that characterized the reception and identification center of Moria. The political decisions and failures of the Greek Government, and also of all the governments that we make up the European Union, in this case in Moria, should serve us to give the lesson for good learning, a lesson that is resulting at the cost of a great deal of suffering. As long as we continue to address migration crises with securityist approaches and not from a human perspective, we will be accomplices to many Morias. And we have to stop being accomplices, we have to stop looking the other way. The migration and asylum situation requires a radical change on the part of those who live and debate in public institutions. A change for the European Union to cease to be a strong Europe and a Europe of peoples. Because so far, instead of addressing these policies from a rights and public health perspective, the option has been to focus on the containment of migratory flows, with a systematic blockage of people's access, the detention of many of them in detention centres and, most seriously, leaving many of them at sea. We share, as reflected in the original initiative, the need to clarify the events in Moria, in order to establish responsibilities as well. Euskadi is a territory that knows what it means that its population has to flee to save life. And it is of justice and solidarity to move forward on a path that allows us to be a society that welcomes those who are now forced to leave their land in search of a better life. And again we say that it is urgent to create a euscal system for reception from an integral point of view, which will answer the needs of all people, regardless of whether they are or not, because today's system leaves a lot of people outside and leaves them knowing it is so. Together we defend ourselves from Podemos with a more just and exclusive society, in which the defence of human rights will be respected and a reality. And I would like to point out what displaced journalists were gathering in Moria, who have also made a superhuman effort to hear the voices of the refugees who were there and not go unnoticed into all the chaos that was formed. They said: "The people of the camp have seen their worst fear confirmed, with the flames trodden on their heels, with positive cases of COVID, in a space with some levels of inhuman overcrowding and insanity..., the response of the European Union and the Greek Government has been punitive, and containment, because there is no intention of letting them out of there. That what was an exceptional and transitional situation is being consolidated as a new migration policy. And the situation is getting worse." The policies of the European Union, based on the abandonment of the migrant population in Lesbos, are breaking the refugee population. When they violate their rights, they take them all away. It is urgent that we fight and bet on a different Europe, that we do not allow it. Tribune honetatik aitortu nahi genuke beste behin ére itsas salbamenduan, kanpamenduetan edo Euskadi osoan harrera- eta elkartasun-sareak martxan jartzen oso gogor lan egiten ari direen erakunde eta entity guztien lan erraldoia. You are the vanguard and the safeguard of our dignity as a society. Some representatives of these organizations are joining us today in this plenary and I would like to thank you. Thank you for being and living in the spirit of the People's Europe, for demonstrating that efforts are under way to create a democratic and inclusive Europe that appreciates all its peoples equally. You make us better as a society. Humanitarian Maritime Rescue, Zaporeak eta Ongi Etorri Errefuxiatuak, eskerrik asko bihotzetik. Our challenge is to live up to the solidarity you represent from this House. We believe that a common migration policy and an asylum system that operates under the principles of real solidarity, solidarity between states, solidarity with local communities, solidarity with the most vulnerable people are needed. Three years ago, since CEAR, they had claimed that more than 65 million people in the world had had to flee in search of refuge, persecuted for various reasons. We complain that there are wars that are not waged by the arms industry, but that other weapons are used, such as the impacts of free trade treaties and policies that are contrary to the sustainable development of all people, peoples and ecosystems. Because, contrary to what is insisted on, Europe needs migrants for its support. We saw him in the pandemic. Its workforce is a central element of our economies. We have fed a chain of care, without which we would simply not survive, supported on the back and bodies mostly of women migrated. But Europe needs them without rights, and that is why policies have been consolidated that condemn the migrant population to a situation of unprotectiveness and contrary to international covenants. We need to reach agreements that guarantee rights for all people who are already in our territory, such as the express regulation of women migrant workers, and to approve regularizations for humanitarian reasons such as the one we are living in. That's the day hemen defended you behar yes, Madrilen the European age. Let us make a commitment vote to maintain this line of defence of rights and be consistent in all institutions. We insist that the important thing now is not to drop this agreement in a broken bag, nor that it only has importance in the hemerotec of this House. That's why we protect all the points we've made in the middle agreement we're discussing here today because we think we've got competitions to do it. From Elkarrekin We can point out the shortcomings of the European Union and we also work to find and find solutions and improvements here in Euskadi. We would therefore also like to take this opportunity to recall the commitment to the creation of a Basque reception system. Let us make a definite action, and not delay either a legislation, or a year, or more months. Let us give the example in this sense, as we have elsewhere given. In Elkarrekin We can, of course, have the will to continue advancing in this line, with the hand stretched out for joint work and agreement. It is essential to promote concrete policies, measures and solutions, even more so at this time that it has touched us, in which the extreme right-wings are getting with their messages to degrade the moral and ethical quality of our societies by taking advantage of the fear of the world in which we live. Gorrotoren aurrean, guk maitasuna, enpathy age sare komunitarioak proposed ditugu. Thank you. And welcome refugees.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Passing on the answering shift, Mr. Otero. That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u137	Yes, from there, if you'll excuse me. Well, I didn't say it before. I'll thank Poseidon too. I have been grateful to the guests who have come and have signed the media, and Podemos, too, was at Chios, and, well, from the beginning has shown his disposition to protect what we were doing. So I think the spirit was right. In any case, since I have a little time, I would like to discuss a little with you, Mr Barrio, because I am a little disturbed by your position if you want me to tell you the truth. Because, I understand you're coming in and trying to get over the profile, right? I have been reviewing the speeches of December, of the plenary on 5 December, in which there was also a proposal in which a lot of things were said, and you have come to do a bit the same as you did at the time: you pass points on the debate on the points in question that are being adopted and you refer us to a sort of trust, I do not know whether you are naive or hiding something darker – because I already have doubts – with regard to what the European Union is doing and as a support for the defence and commitment to human rights, right? Of course, last December there was no direction to create; then that excuse did not have it. Today you have a good excuse: you have the address. He had the invitation to say, well, if management is what he doesn't like, because it supports the rest of the issues, and I think it would be interesting. Because you refer me first to the European framework, don't you? Obviously, we are all going to a European framework, we are within the (...) in Europe. We do not like the European Commission's new proposal and we are going to fight it with nails and teeth so that it takes other paths from the most complicated issues and those things that make the situation of refugees worse today, which we believe are basically two issues. One is the mechanism that wants to create "flexible solidarity", right?, the one that does not force all the countries of the European Union to relocate a certain amount – a "solidarity split", let's say – but instead exchanges that obligation by, let's say, subsidizing the returns of the people to whom they want to be expelled, which is what is at the bottom of the new pact, isn't it? And then, the other question is the resurgence of border procedures, isn't it? I want to say that having that sort of European Union ideal that is respectful of human rights, as something that comes from afar, I believe that today is home to little reality. And we are talking to you about concrete pacts that the European Union has sealed with third countries; the trust fund, through which it has outsourced the borders; the Frontex... We have too many elements today on the failed migration policies of the European Union, with catastrophic results, we understand. I'm not going to tell you that politics are criminal directly, but they do have a criminal outcome, right? And the fact that nearly 40,000 people have died in the Mediterranean, according to the estimates of the last 10 years, I think it is a good sign of the failure of the European Union's position. So, I'd like you to clarify me a little bit, why do you have that confidence. We have no elements, we have no elements for it. I'll tell you more. The March judgment of the Court of Strasbourg, in which it exempts the Spanish State after having sentenced it to pay compensation for hot returns, I believe that is one of the worst symptoms in which Europe – well, the Court of Strasbourg – precisely what it does is to separate itself directly from the Geneva Convention. We will see whether it is a point or a question that creates jurisprudence, but we find it very worrying about the drift of the European institutions in general. So, it seems to me that we need to clarify that position further. We do not have that naive support for what Europe can do as a human rights adalid. I think we have to demand it. Well, anyway, I mean to say that I'm very happy, because I think there are two kinds of emigrations here about migration. One comes from Europe, but we see even groups here, and this sexist approach is: The more people go, the better. And there is another approach, which proceeds from human right and solidarity. And I think more than 90% of this Chamber may be grateful to the political groups and especially, as I said at first, to the exhibition of civil society in this matter. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u138	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Is the missile going to take the word? Mrs Martínnez, okay? Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u139	Well, first of all, I want to reiterate our utmost solidarity with those who suffer, with those refugees who are so badly going through it. But it is curious that it is EH Bildu, precisely the adalid of these people and of human rights. They never defended those who had to flee their land, from Euskadi, because the terrorist band ETA was chasing them and killing them simply because they didn't think like them. You never respected the human rights of the victims of ETA, what has changed in you now?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u140	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Companals Popular Group-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u141	Yes, thank you, President. And briefly, isn't it? I don't know, don't see, Mr. Otero, darkness in my approach. And it's not naive. Of course, the approach I make to it is a very thoughtful approach, a very thoughtful one, and with great conviction. Perhaps the fact of trust in Europe's political union is my main political commitment, in terms of theoretical policy, isn't it? And that is a conviction, it is not naive, it is a conviction, it is also a conviction based on the steps that the European Union has been taking. And I have told you before that the new government has now acknowledged the mistakes, the shortcomings have been acknowledged. It is about creating a new framework, a new action on asylum and immigration. He's getting in touch with the countries. It's complicated, but mistakes are being recognized. And I say to you again: Europe is still the host Europe, it is still, Mr Otero, the host Europe. There is nothing more to see than our villages, our streets, our cities, our organizations, our professionals of all kinds on our streets, with which we all share the day-to-day, our different origins and origins. There is nothing more to see than that great news, that great news that is Europe, that some of you want to carry with you so much criticism, so much distrust. And it's not like that. Populisms, extremisms... the best antidote for all of them is Europe. And I say again: Europe is a dream for many. It remains so with its inadequacies. There is nothing more to go through our streets, our squares, our neighborhoods, our organisations, our parties to realize that Europe is welcomed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u142	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists? Yes, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u143	Only and exclusively, out of parliamentary courtesy, to thank again, including Elkarrekin Podemos, for their support of this initiative presented by EH Bildu, and to reiterate the thanks, for their work and for the great work they are doing, to the non-governmental organizations that are accompanying us today. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Is the Eubertarian a team going to take the word? Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u145	Yeah. You can hear it, can't you? Yeah. Well, it's been very brief. I want to thank everyone you've tried to make this deal. Well, thank your guests, for one thing. Eta, well, Mrs Martínez I want to say that, out of respect for our guests, I will not enter into that attempt to distort this agreement so important to us by using, meaninglessly, the "everything is ETA". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Mrs. González, your word is yours. Together, Podemos-IU.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u147	We want to insist once again that, in the times ahead, in the defence of the rights of migrants, of those who are subjected to total unprotection, it is more necessary than ever that the political forces that defend democracy and human rights send a unanimous, clear and firm message to the whole of society and, in particular, to those who present migrants as a threat. And, well, following the thread of what Mikel was saying a little bit, then, that the policies of the European Union do not have to leave them in the hands that we do not know, that we each have in our hands to do the policies that we consider. And then, I would like to acknowledge, if we take a look at what was the last parliamentary term, then put into value that many agreements have been reached in this House, and to put them many times before our ideologies. And we have put them forward in favour of the rights of migrants and refugees, and we have put them on our differences. In the last parliamentary term, for example, eight GNPs were boosted, of which seven were agreed. This, in my opinion, deserves recognition too; a recognition, above all, of the efforts of all the parliamentary groups to reach agreements and to find what unites us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Since the discussion has ended... [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u149	Indeed, we intended to call for a separate vote on some point, and we called for the 1st and 2nd to be voted on separately from 3, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u150	One and two, on one side; and the rest. We're going to vote and vote for EH Collect, Euskal Socialists, and the 1st and 2 points of middle-correction which the Eucabertians have signed. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters, 74; the opposites 1; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u151	So there's one and two points to be accepted. Next up, we vote 3.4 and 5 points. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the parties are 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters are 68; the opponents are 0; Absences 7; white, 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u152	So the rest of the points have been accepted. The eighth point in the subject list: "The other proposition of the popular group of Euscals-Ciudadans as a parlamentary group-about 2020-2030 eucal strategy of the demographic challenge. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs Garrido, representing the Basque Popularo-Ciudadans, is your word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician. Well, the subject we bring today is an interesting subject, and we think it would be advisable to present such a proposal. To develop a Basque population challenge strategy, we consider it to be one of the outstanding subjects of this Government, and we regret that the Basque Government, to date, has not fulfilled one of the commitments it had made to Basque society in the past parliamentary term. This fact has motivated the People's-Citizens Coalition to present this initiative by urging the Basque Government to develop a strategy on the demographic challenge. It was essential to face the demographic challenge, to resist the hinges we have in this field, and to attain our goals, and this government has hitherto never fulfilled its engagement in this matter. And the coalition between the Pompulian and Ciudadanians found it convenient to present a proposal as soon as possible to have a strategy in the beginning of this legislation. We have reached an agreement with the parties that support the Government, to which I obviously want to thank for their efforts to achieve this agreement, which I believe is a good and satisfactory agreement for the whole of Basque society. Akordio will beat the hellu race. You had an akordio one of her age, well, ildo horretan, eskerrak emman nahi dizkiet Gobernuan donden alderdie. This agreement calls on the Government to develop a Basque strategy on demographic challenges within nine months. This strategy will be interdepartmental and inter-institutional and will clearly be cross-cutting. Akordio honen helburua da Gobernu honek errorka demografikoari buruzko strategy bat Egypt bederatzi hilabeteko epean. As we all know, one of the characteristics of the countries in our environment is the low birth rate and the high rates of ageing of the population we have, and that this has led to a structural problem, which has an impact on multiple subjects, such as education, health care, pensions, health expenditure, social services... In short, we have a very worrying reality that can put at risk, even putting it already, the state of well-being as we know it. Doubtful ereality guztiz kezkagarria her, age daukagun gai honetan arazoa nabarmena her, age gore ongizais-state arriskuan egon daitekeela edo, hobeto esanda, momentu honetan ére egon daitekeela. It is not a question of being catastrophic, but of describing a reality as presented to us by the data. Thus, the projections of the Eustat for the next ten years, of course, do not lead us to optimism, but to the contrary. The vegetative growth rate will continue to be negative; the number of women of childbearing age will continue to decline, as well as the number of young people under 20 years of age in 20,000; the potentially active population of working age between 20 and 64 years of age will also lose more than 110,000, and the population over 65 years of age could increase to 150,000, and their weight would also correspond to 28% of the total population. The population in Euskadi, we can say and conclude, clearly, that it has stagnated in the last eight years. We also see the official data: in 2011 there were 2,184,696 inhabitants, and in 2019 there are 2,181,919 inhabitants. We therefore believe that this data is also quite revealing of the situation we currently have in the Basque Country, of very low birth rates, of the lowest, not only compared to the rest of the autonomous communities, but also with the rest of the European Union, and with high rates of population ageing. Obviously it is a satisfactory fact, but that also leads us to the conclusion that there is also more expenditure in the health sector, in the social sphere and, above all, that the replacement rate is not adequately covered by the birth rate, compared to the rate of ageing we have. As I was saying, we have reached an agreement. I also have to point out that we had a debate on this issue in the past parliamentary term – specifically, in 2018 we had a debate on this issue, specific, on family policy and demographic challenge – and that many of the resolutions also envisaged and adopted in this Parliament, in which I believe that, in addition, we made an important effort of consensus among the different groups, to this day have not been developed by this government. And, Mr Urkullu, taking advantage of the fact that you are here, for let us hope that many of those measures that have been adopted, as I say, in this full monograph on family policy and demographic challenge can be implemented in this legislature. On the other hand, I also believe it is important to take into account the example of the Government Commissioner's own national strategy against the demographic challenge, which was an institution – an institution, rather than an institution – created by the former President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy. A strategy that is also cross-cutting and also with very clear objectives, which has also had an important period of analysis and, as I say, which has also culminated in a specific strategy at national level. Well, ultimately, I think we're adopting an important agreement today. I know that drawing up a strategy on demographic challenges is an issue covered by the government's own agenda, but we also have to say that the last legislature the lehendakari himself also made a commitment in this area, he pointed out on several occasions in this rostrum, and that strategy did not arrive. We believe that it is no longer possible for the Basque Government to adopt a strategy in this regard, which includes medium-, short- and long-term measures, which are interdepartmental and inter-institutional in nature and which includes policies in a cross-cutting manner. We believe it is important that this strategy also has a certain diagnosis of the situation; it envisages measures that will be implemented with the corresponding funding, and I also hope, Mr Lehendakari, that in this regard this will be an issue of attention in the preparation of the next budgets; that there will also be deadlines for implementation, as well as periodic developments, so that we can know the implementation or rather the implementation of the various measures envisaged. I think it is appropriate, well, that the groups supporting the Government, well, as a result of the agreement we have been able to incorporate a nine-month time frame for this strategy, bearing in mind that a diagnosis of the situation needs to be made, but I would like to hope that this time, Mr Lehendakari, this time frame will be fulfilled and in nine months we can have in this Parliament, and above all in Basque society, a specific strategy on demographic challenges which, as I say, is one of the outstanding subjects of this Government and one of the issues that this society demands without further delay. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u154	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together represent the Podemos-IU team. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u155	Good afternoon again, everybody. Marx said, in his thesis on Feuerbach, that philosophers have done nothing but interpret the world in various ways, but what it is about is to transform it. The equivalent for what is the philosophy of walking around the house: "less talking and more acting". A story that we could apply to the demographic challenge, where it is so easy to give data, advice and provide accurate projections, but it is difficult to take risks and engage in solutions. Hasteko nabarmendu nahi nuke ona litzatekeela, puntu honetako eztabaidari aurre egiteko orduan, aurreko puntuan posetutako idea batzuk kontuan hartzea. Because as long as we do not guarantee the rights of all people who must interact to project lives worthy of being lived, we will continue to be brave enough, as historical circumstances require. On the one hand, I would like to start on the basis that most of the forces we are here share the vision that Euskadi is facing in the coming years the challenge of adapting to global challenges (to climate change, to the global care crisis, to the exhaustion of an economic system that cannot continue on the basis of unlimited economic growth...) and, on the other hand, we have to do so with the factor of an increasingly ageing population and the difficulties that we all face in carrying out the life projects we want, because the cut in rights that was proposed as a formula to emerge from the 2008 crisis has not worked and has had a negative impact on economic recovery. The gap in inequality has widened at the expense of leaving people behind. This is said by the Basque Government itself in its survey on poverty and inequality. We propose a model based on the guarantee of rights for all people who make of equity and diversity common places and who bet on an ecological transition that takes care of the territory in which we live and in which also the generations that will happen to us must live. Moreover, we have always maintained that it is welcome to encourage families to improve the conditions of life. And we are speaking of families in the demographicment area, because the concept of our family is this: As our colleague Tinixara Guanche defended during the last legislature, in Elkarrekin We can, when we talk about families, talk about people who decide to live together or share everyday life; who decide to take care of themselves in basic needs, but also in emotional needs, needs that are covered in the most diverse subjects (education, health, principles, culture, economic support...); people who are accompanied in joys and are to face the pains and difficulties; people who are being the life jacket of a socio-economic world that very often generates precariousness, inequality, injustice...; people who sustain life, who have sustained it and continue to sustain it in the midst of this health emergency, especially those who need the most care. And in the middle of this discussion, we want to re-establish children, teenagers, adults, elderly people, people who have functional débertsity, and others who need more especially with dignity to live in a transitory or permanent manner. Family is, in short, that support that carries a very large weight, that carries with all the essential tasks for social reproduction and the support of life. A group of people who, precisely because they are the breadwinner of life, are going to suffer and reap the greatest consequences, both from the current economic and health crisis, which was already coming, only that it has burst with COVID, as from a system of protection and precarious employment and that is not responding to the reality of a demographic transformation in this country. The demographic challenge that is mentioned every certain time by the institutions, but there are no serious, comprehensive, concrete or clear proposals by any institution. Only punctual measures, great announcements and, from the point of the citizenry and the agents that are driving and lever for the achievement of the challenges, guidelines, recommendations that we propose, are above all a source of confusion, because we continue to build very good theoretical frameworks. But they stay in that, in theoretical frameworks. But I wanted to point out that we all agree with the need for a strategy. It's true. It's just how we build it and what pillars we're going to build it from. For this we need to take a long-term look, align policies and efforts from different administrations and ensure policy coherence. But we also need to have a strategic vision, so that we do not get carried away by the agenda of the most immediate emergencies. Policy coherence is needed. It is also necessary to highlight the social, technical knowledge already acquired, the fruit of what is already in progress. And it is necessary to assess whether the instruments we are equipping ourselves with are serving the purpose for which they were designed. It is necessary to go hand in hand with all social actors, both in the design and in the implementation of a common strategy. Let us grasp the demographic challenge of this country where we live, and improve social protection, looking at suitable and beautiful Northern activities, looking forward and widening their ranges, not lessening them. That is why we need this strategy to build on the accountability of the plans that are still in place and not to repeat the modus operandi of leaving the strategies and plans in what seems to be half-full, because now we are not going to build another theoretical framework. That is why our proposal for an amendment contains a number of specific points in order to overcome the shortcomings we understood in the original proposal. We believe that we are taking an integral look at this debate and, above all, the demand to remain criminalizing approaches to poverty or to legitimize the idea that protection for all people is not possible because the economy will not be able to protect everyone. These approaches are unfair and immoral in many respects. Our bet is a strategy that reverses the proliferation of these discourses, taking advantage of the fear and insecurity generated by pandemics as we are living, because that means putting lives in the center and the economy at the service of life and not the other way around. It is also shown at this moment that the indirectness of the genus, the interest of the minor and child, and that the view of human rights is the means of building this strategy. Be brave, be brave, be brave. That is why we are presenting an amendment in this line, an amendment that we are going to ask you to vote on, because you are looking at what you are proposing to be agreed by this House, that we face a country challenge that we must jointly think about sitting down and waiting for strategies and agendas that you will already be in charge of doing. We believe that the agreement of this House should be deeper and more contentious. What we are also concerned about your agreement is that you do not usually put anything you are not doing now, anything that is already mandated by this House, or anything that you have not committed to since the plans that seem to never develop, or for those who ask us for patience to see your journey. And so we are with some of the most anticipated legislative projects, such as the Equality Act. One issue we share with the proposing group is that all this involves implementing strategies, but strategies that promote actions from different departments, that facilitate coordination of actions and resources in different institutions, but that are also innovative and transformative, strategies that address the demographic challenge in all complexity and that go beyond the current political direction designed for the family. The Podemos, together, wanted to make an initiative from the agreement and regulations. That's why we propose that all departments and institutions start a strategy to challenge the demographic, but really. And even if we start from a real process of discussion, the starting-point of strategy is a diagnosis, it would be absurd to do so otherwise. And we'll encourage this diagnosis to come to this legislature and have the ability to contribute by political groups. And because if this debate results in the adoption of a new agreement that addresses the demographic challenge, then let us not build that strategy apart from the pacts that are announcing us as a country for equality or the pacts that we have already established and that it is up to us to transform them into structures and models for the protection and defence of real rights. Let us not build it apart from the country's objectives that society is demanding us to agree on. We will continue to defend the families as we understand them at Podemos and to build the feminist Euscadi, the inclusive and effective, a Basque which will be a sign to the future for all the people who live there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Unite the EH team as representative. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u157	Good afternoon, Madam. And good evening to all. The demography is one of the themes that are commonly cyclical to us in this law. We all agree and insist upon the importance of the matter when it comes, but it is at last our feeling that the subject has not the same size as the poultices of political speculations in political systems and the design of public politics. And this sensation is confirmed by the sight of the corrections which have been made for the discussion of the day, and the agreement that has been concluded, by the sight of this medium, and the will which has been made to connect the agreements. And, really, I don't know how far this one leaves them, for example, the promise that the head of the Mount Garasts made about the Rebellion of generations yesterday, or as much as the offer. I don't know, but come on. We insist on reconnaissing today that for the Basque Country, for the United States, there are challenges that are very important to this people about the demography and the elements that are not mentioned and omitted. And from this point of view we also arrive at the discussion of today. I don't intend to begin today in a deep discussion about the demography. We did two years ago, long and deep, but here again a speech rises. When we speak of Demophan, as the path of anxiety and catastrophe prevails in dispute, I would like to remind you of today that there are all opinions about demography, no? And that there are some who have studied the development of our demography, who say that the state of our EAE demography is the best thing in his history, because they consider the old age of the population as being older than ever, because they understand the hope of life as a social achievement, and that it is normal and good to bring down the birth in this context, as they believe. I'd like to remind you of that too. The subject is now presented with the necessity of the financery of the well-made model, and associated with the necessity of the manufactured trade. And the question that prevails is, whether there are enough people, enough laborers, enough coleters, enough pensions, public services, and so on, as Mrs Garrido said today. And regardless of the photograph as a whole, without taking up the different vertices that result from problems, the only way is to suggest, as if it were an immediate solution, and the increase of the rate of birth. And that is an entirely erroneous plan for us. These improper and fearful messages, to be found in the excuse of the demo, are placed in the wrong and interesting dispositions, as we have said several times here, because it is not right for us to plan politics to increase the rate of fertility. Nay, in the opinion and opinion of many experts, this idea, as we have done before, is not ethical, nor ethical, to use the discourse of fear for the political interests of men, to answer or answer the necessities of industry for war, economy, or production, which are not paid or paid to the care of women. It's unethical. And he has a purpose: Keeping a status quo, keeping the distribution between watch and production in the same way. Therefore I shall repeat aloud to-day, that once more we wish to make clear that we are masters of our bodies from the Basque Country, and that we do not allow our bodies and lives to be employed for productive, economists, and political ends, and that, like a group, we do not protect any policy which plan the use of our bodies. And I say it, and I hope you will come and listen to it and receive it from all those Lorettos and Lorettas who also sit in this Parliament. Begira, myopia strategist ondorioak ditugu orrain esku artean, ez besterik. I have already said this in Parliament, in the debate on the demographic challenge, "Of those dusts, these birth rates." If we've had these discussions before! Look, the lehendakari Urkullu proposed a pact to reduce the difficulties in implementing family projects in 2016. He then proposed a permanent and long-term inter-agency strategy. Two years later, with great artifacts, and with great clumsiness in the staging, the Pact for Families arrived. And the lehendakari Urkullu then told us that increasing birth was a country goal. On the return of this treaty, we here performed this monographic debate which was before mentioned. Several proposals were brought. We were willing to agree, and so we agreed. But then, alas, most of those agreements that they obtained were in the damp paper. When two years have passed, the treaty must have assumed a change of paradigma, and the answer to the demographic challenge of EAE seems to have passed through history. It is not mentioned in your court of government that there are few allusions to the essays of the essay on typdromemememography, but not that treaty, which the President of the Urcullu did not mention in his inquest, and it is not even mentioned in the correction he made to-day. In the end nos propon's una strategy sobre demograph. This strategy is first adopted by the family agreement with your very similar ends, which are very nearly similar to those of yours. I don't know why the difference, why the treaty should have been so long a time, and this must have assumed a change of paradigmama, and this must have been a long period, why it is not valid now, and now that this thing about demography must be brought about. I don't know. But in my opinion, and also in that half-way agreement you have obtained, es como volver a empezar. And as Binglinch used to say in his verse, this way, "kis-kiss." He has a demographic challenge to-day, as he was now four years old, and in this march he will have for many years, and even more, as President Urkullu did, or as he did now only a few of the sub-prejudicors, or as the groups which maintain the government are in their correction, if centrality is once more settled in the birth rate. It will only allow the system and social organization to continue in the same way. The difficulties will remain as they are. And you're wrong, from our point of view, going on that way. Or perhaps not, perhaps, that is what you want concretely; To keep things as they are. And that's what we don't want. Today, in the Miramar Palace, from the schools of the Basque Country University, and in order to arrange the settlements of Aubix, he will perform a reflection on a future pact of generations, and today he will write about it in New-and, in fact, I thought that it was more interesting to be read than the discussion will give him to-day. In any case, they said that there is an inevitable and menacing element at this moment, and that an old man's parents and grandfathers have had better opportunities and grow older than their grandfathers, and among generations when they enter youth and age, certainties have been robbed of when they enter. And we agree with him that if I have to say too much of him to you, he will agree very well, and I believe that all the reflections he has to do in that way are what he ought to do. It is true that we have big challenges, but – I told the lehendakari on another occasion too – I think those challenges have more to do with the policies of good living, with establishing new balances, with fairer balances, than with birth. And we believe, too, that this challenge which we have before, and if it is to be drawn from a strategy of demography, changes of structure and deep politics, and that this would require a contribution of all. That's why we're so surprised, we're very much surprised, with the attitude we've taken today about the proposal we've made about the subject. The truth is that we have not had any feedback or response to find out why or how difficult it was to accept our proposal. We were simply told that we were working on a compromise proposal with the People's Party, and today morning we were confirmed that this proposal had been achieved and we were thanked. They thanked us for participating and almost encouraged us to keep playing, didn't they? I think this subject is very serious, very serious, and that their contributions are necessary because we are in front of one of those great challenges to come, and that the contributions of all and of the collective intelligence of this people are required. You have preferred to make a cheaper deal this time, I understand, and you have preferred to play Juan Palomo as you have done now: That you could design that strategy on your own. And when it comes to this point, I don't think it's a bit of a bargain, really, and this town's around the demography...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u158	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u159	...a deal about the hinges, which you can sign with and with the Poptular Party. I don't think we have this anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u161	Thank you, President. Demographic change is, together with climate change, technological transformation and the recovery of the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic, one of the major challenges facing the European Union in the short, medium and long term. That is why it is very important to place the demographic challenge among our political priorities at both the autonomous, national and European levels. A combination of different factors is given. The growing ageing of our society as a result of increased life expectancy, which is also a result of the success of our welfare state, but is combined with the decline in the birth rate, territorial depopulation and the need to regulate migratory flows, which is a challenge to the sustainability of our welfare state and can put at risk social cohesion, territorial vertebration and our coexistence model. This demographic change affects the areas of health, social services, care, the labour market, pensions, economic growth, sustainability of public spending, intergenerational solidarity and family composition, among others. The effect of the economic crisis – employment, temporaryity, precarious work, the wage reduction suffered in recent years, the housing market... – causes a delay in the emancipation of young people, who delay the decision to create a family or to have the children they wish to have, thus also decreasing the number of births. And in all this we must take into account the differentiated needs or realities of women and men. That is why it is of great importance to include the gender perspective and equality between men and women in it. It is important to have a good diagnosis of the current situation in order to be able to better define the measures to be taken, the funding available in the budgets and the deadlines for their implementation. It is of particular importance to carry out periodic assessments of the extent to which measures have been considered to have to be implemented. And, since it is a challenge that affects different administrations, coordination and collaboration at different levels – European, State, national, autonomous and local – is important. Within the Council of Ministers of March 2019, an agreement was adopted on the general guidelines of the national strategy to address the demographic challenge. This strategy must be global and cross-cutting in nature, as it is interdepartmental in nature, designed to provide a joint and future response to address the problem of progressive population ageing, territorial depopulation and the effects of the floating population. This strategy has as its fundamental objective a country project that guarantees equal opportunities and the free exercise of rights to citizenship throughout the territory, through, as I have said, cooperation in the coordination of all administrations and the exploitation of resources, because to address the demographic challenge we must guarantee equal rights, opportunities and freedom to choose, live wherever they want to live. It is necessary to change our productive model and make an ecological transformation of our economy and to combat the gap of inequality and poverty, taking as an indispensable principle social and territorial cohesion and, all this, on the basis of the achievement of the 2030 sustainable development goals. And this general strategy must be developed with the collaboration and cooperation of the autonomous communities and local entities. The Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups attach importance to the demographic challenge and that is why the government agreement contains measures aimed at this in the area of both the elderly and young people, with regard to the family and children, with regard to migration and against rural depopulation. A common and coordinated policy is proposed with the aim of offering Basque youth a cross-cutting action that facilitates their emancipation and can develop their own life plan. In the initiative we are discussing today, we have achieved a compromise amendment with the People-Citizens Group. I thank the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Garrido, for its cooperation in order to be able to reach the agreement that we have signed today. I think he's picking up important things. It reflects the commitment that Parliament should urge the Basque Government to deepen its cooperation with the other institutions in the development of these policies for the promotion of birth, support for work and family reconciliation, the promotion of active ageing, the promotion of effective equality between men and women, the fight against rural depopulation, among others, which, as I have pointed out in my speech, are important, and also to draw up a plan on the demographic challenge of an interdepartmental nature. It also sets a time limit for compliance, which is nine months. We did not agree with the approach of the EH Bildu group, which considered it necessary to set up a paper in the Basque Parliament in one month to reflect on demographic changes, or to have the interinstitutional strategy listed in three months, because if we want to also give participation in it to associations, trade unions or feminist movements, which, moreover, by the EH Bildu group is constantly requested, obviously within three months it is very difficult to carry out all that participation, to have drawn up the strategy, the plan, etc. It is much more coherent, much more logical, the deadline set in the compromise amendment that we have signed today. As far as the Elkarrekin Podemos group is concerned, he continues to talk about the need for participation in the field of care, and we already pointed out to them, in the plenary on 1 October, when we discussed care, that such participation is already going to occur, is going to occur and is taking place, within the elaboration of the strategy for non-professional caregivers, and included the analysis of this situation, the measures to be taken, the chronology of action and the necessary budget for it. That is why we also did not see the need for what you proposed. One of the issues they also raised was the need for such a diagnostic report. Well, we already picked it up in some way in our amendment and then we talked about translating it into a plan, and we set that nine-month deadline. I believe that we saw the approach of our compromise amendment much more correctly, and we have therefore put it this way and agreed with the Group of the European People's Party. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u162	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u163	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Speaking of the demographic challenge, I won't read triumphistic reading. Data can be improved, clearly, but don't tell me anything about it in order to make any catastrophist reading with me. The situation is difficult, perhaps the term we use is a challenge. Sometimes it is very useful to exercise; Take the word in hand, go to the dictionary, and look at its meaning in itself. I'll do this exercise in Spanish. The RAE defines the word challenge as the "objective or commitment difficult to carry out, and thus constitutes a stimulus and a challenge for those who face it". This meaning cannot better reflect the attitude of the Basque Government with regard to this matter: it has a well-defined objective; that objective is difficult, and that difficulty inherent in the objective is one that poses a challenge or an incentive to the work of the Administration. And it is this stimulus that has made the Basque Government include in the government programme, on page 119, in commitment 140, the elaboration of a plan to respond to the demographic challenge. It is proposed that this response be in coordination with the other institutions, with the departments, and that it be done without losing contact with civil society. When we talk about a demographic challenge, there are so many factors that we should consider. One of those creatures is to grow old. As for old age, the hope of life has increased during Eukadin 2010 and 2018 years: It's 83 years since 82.4. You know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, The hope of the lives of the Basque women is the greatest of the women of the European Union. You see, while I was preparing this discussion, I read the headline of a newspaper, and he said, giving me a sort of negative notation: "Euskadi envejece: las personates mayores de 100 años son el double que hace una déada." Where's the bad news? The possibility that people could live more and more is something positive. All the facts I have hitherto given, including the headlines of that diary, are positive facts, and I should say positive and significant. And it's significant that they value the quality of life in this country, because they show that the Euscal Strategy for Active Age has produced the results, it makes it clear that prevention and progress are good tools; it shows that the institutional equipment of this people works-not to say that it would be impossible if we didn't have a public and powerful health system. Another important factor is that of birth. The Government has set itself as an objective for this legislature that birth should increase by 10%. In this sense, I think it is important to note that there are two variables when we talk about birth. One variable is the cultural one, which refers to the will of families to have children, and another is the one we could call the economic one, which is the one that analyzes the capacity or the possibility that these families have when they want to have children. With regard to the first, cultural, which analyses the will of families, I think we need to be particularly careful. As has been said, I believe that not even for demographic or welfare issues, including the pension system, can administrations have this temptation to influence the morale of their own families. I believe that we have fortunately overcome a scenario in which a single family model was imposed and people, especially women, were judged when they decided, for any reason, to have no children. Society has evolved, and I think that is something we should be glad about. It is true that there is that other side and that it is the one that must be particularly concerned and occupied by the Administration, that side that is based on creating those conditions necessary for people not to be forced or prevented – often very difficult – to have those sons and daughters that, by any decision, they would want to have. In this regard, the Basque Government has been implementing very concrete measures to help prevent these barriers that can sometimes be found in these families. Measures, most of them, which are envisaged in the framework of the Inter-Agency Plan for Family Support of 2018. For example, concrete measures: aid per second child between two and three years of age has been increased. Specific measures: the permissions of both parents have been matched. Specific measures: The right to leave single-parent families has been increased by four weeks. Specific measures: soon the increase in support for the recruitment of carers will be approved, already announced; from 0 to 3 years was and will become 3 to 14 years. By the way, this was something that was being demanded by family associations and that is going to be done, not only is going to be approved, but is going to be done, with retroactive effect, since 1 September 2020. And when we talk about the demographic challenge, it's another important cause of immigration. Away from the discourses founded on populism, I shall here present myself for the immigration. There are many reasons, but two are the most important reasons or the principal. The first belongs to multiplicity. The Basque Country, Euskawa, is a multiple people. In this country, persons of different origins, religion, culture, language, or personality have lived. The new variety, therefore, cannot be a surprise to the Basque People. Look, I love a sentence that I read in the Social Testament for the migration: "The beans aren't the other one between us." For they are already part of the "Esska" of the future which we are building among all." If this is not enough, there is a second reason, which confirms that Euskadi must have an open and welcoming attitude towards immigration. And we understand that this must be the case, also for a purely economic reason. We cannot but say that these migrants help to increase collection, both direct and indirect, contribute to the maintenance of social security and promote consumption, among many other reasons. In addition, we must recognize that they are a fundamental pillar for maintaining the welfare system as we conceived, increasing the population balance. In short, I think it is important to point out that the challenge we face is a common challenge in all the countries of the European Union. In Euskadi we are affected by the same problems that affect the rest of the Union, although they do not do so in the same way and do not affect us to the same degree. And just as it affects us, it also affects the state. In this case, as in all cases, inter-institutional collaboration is important. We are pleased to see that work is also under way in the state and that a Commission for the Demographic Challenge has been set up. The Basque Government has participated in this committee by making proposals and demonstrating that we need funding in line with the scale of the challenge we face. It is true, as I said before, that the problems do not affect us in the same way, and just as in the state they are focusing especially on the fight against rural depopulation, in Euskadi we are much more affected, as has been said before, by a low birth rate. But while it is true that there are some regions, it can especially be Mendialdea in Araba, which are affected by rural depopulation, and the Basque Government, by the hand of the Álava Foral Diputation, is also working to remedy it. And these, and not others, are the reasons why we are presenting our amendment and why we have agreed with Mrs Garrido, of the People's Party, a compromise amendment, and from here I would like to thank both Mrs Garrido and Mrs Sánchez, of the Socialist Party, for their willingness to reach an agreement. También quiero agrader, as I have already told you, Signora Kortha's intention of coming to the agreements you have shown us. I told you and when I told you I meant it. I've seen a plan of coming to the agreements on your side, but sometimes there's more possible agreements or they've started before, and that's how they stop. I have seen thee a little with longings for bronc, and thou shalt not find me there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u164	Thank you, Mr. Díez. The response shift. Yes, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, if you'll excuse me, I'll make it from the seat because I'm short, and I think it's because different attitudes are already clear. Alde battik, to Mrs González I want to say that, obviously, we understand that this was an unfulfilled commitment, that could not be delayed. Obviously, it is included in the government programme, but I believe that it is not too much, and above all seeing the slowness and that sometimes this government does not fulfil the commitments it has made, because it is no more than to exonerate the government so that, well, it will fulfil the mandates also acquired in this House, as I said, also the commitments that the government itself has acquired and acquired in this area since the last legislature. Furthermore, I believe that the Lehendakari itself is a matter to which he has referred on many occasions, and I believe that it is an issue that must, and hopefully so, be on the agenda of this Government on an absolutely priority basis. Mrs Kortajarena esan nahi diot, well, of course, it's a recurring topic. You, too, often bring up repetitive issues when you consider that you did not comply with the Government, that the Government should be given a little earshake. I want to remind you that I am a woman, Mrs. Kortajarena. You are well aware that we have shared debates in this House, we have reached many agreements too – many of them, in addition, unanimously, fortunately – that have to do with women. And I believe that, well, at least I do not doubt your concern about women's issues, nor do I expect you to doubt my concern in this regard, because there are also my initiatives in the many debates that I have participated in over these years as a parliamentarian. With regard to your initiative and to reply to it, well, we believe that making a presentation at this time would delay the elaboration of this strategy for referral to the Basque Parliament. If necessary, a deadline is already set. I believe that, apart from an analysis of the situation, but a preliminary analysis for the adoption of those measures which must be accompanied by a budgetary appropriation, a deadline for implementation... I think there's a lot of studies, there's a lot of data... We have had, as you have said, already a full monograph in the last parliamentary term, on 21 March 2018, and, therefore, I believe that what was appropriate at this time is to ask for that strategy already. The Government, well, seems to be acquiring this commitment again. And we hope, at least we will give him a vote of confidence this time, that this time he will. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u166	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Podemos-IU. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u167	Well, I think we have been clear and purposeful in the amendment tabled. We have come, I believe, to show consistency in everything we have defended, to defend it on this subject in the last parliamentary term, and also the points made when the PP parliamentary group has brought similar proposals to this House. Mrs Garrido, we continue with our hand to reach common agreements, but we insist that they be included in social justice, in the change of model and social transformation, which is necessary, because people today are adding more and more obstacles to survival, and let's not say to live happily. So, well, I think it would have been important to come to today's debate with a prior agreement, seeing where the proposals from the amendments received started. We are concerned, of the proposed compromise amendment, that a little the compromise starts to follow as we are, from frameworks that are not completed, or those that ask us for patience to follow up, and patience to see their course. And so we are with some, as I said before, very expected legislative projects. And, well, we don't understand, moreover, that there are plans and strategies that you don't go through, that we need to look up to a bigger horizon. Well, I'm asking the question and self-criticism too, if we're going to go on without putting into value what unites us more than what unites us, and how many theoretical frameworks are needed to open without going in and without going down to earth. Well, we're also going to continue here with our hand stretched out to reach agreements that will lead to improvements for the citizenry. And if they reach consensus and reinforce the message as a political class, better than better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. EHGG rep. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. The fact that it's a subject it doesn't make any difference. I said, it's a very important matter for us, and that's what we've come up with today's discussion, and the proposal we proposed for our importance. What has not yet been explained to us by those who have made the agreement is why there is no approach to our proposal. If it was time, Mrs Sánchez, the first news I had about this was today; and if there were other elements, they could have been discussed, as is done on other occasions. But the case has not been dealt with, the case has not been dealt with. Eta hori ére aipatu egin nahi nuen. I won't question your concern for women, Mrs Laura Garrido, but we are feminists. We are feminists and we defend a feminist project. And therefore we say, and bring the propositions here, and therefore for us there is no end of the people to raise the difference in terms here proposed by you. I'm trying to tell you the difference. Well, I agree with all the things you've been talking about here, and I even said that when I said my word, these exams about demography can be examined by different views, and can't they? And all the things you've been talking about here are factors, culture and whatever they are, I share them, too. When we had a demographic argument here, we brought all these here, didn't we? But that doesn't agree with the pretty ones they're making here. President Urkullu was already in 2016, and several persons had great difficulties to make as many children as they wanted. That's 2016. Then there was an agreement. Whether this treaty ought to alter the paradigm round the families, and in this respect it was a long-term strategy, for it was necessary to change so many matters as to alter them. I don't know how much it's done or not. But now we're talking about other stories. And my sensation is my feeling, and so I have said at first that there is a distance between things that are said and done, and that these views here mentioned do not come into play at all. You used to say, "Specific measures," didn't you? Man, if the "concrete measures" to address the demographic challenge are the policies of conciliation, that even in a few days organized within the framework of the Covenant for Families by Mrs Artolazabal have already been proved, let us say, quite useless in that sense, for God comes and sees it, because I do not know. And as for concrete measures, let us be told of a measure to respond to the need for reconciliation that is now being given in families, now, and that will arrive in spring... Well, as soon as we go this fast... Not to mention the many discussions we have had about these conciliation aids which, precisely, are not adapted and are inaccessible to all those people who have greater difficulties in starting a family project, or not, in which they want to have children. Eta guk ez dugu konpartitzen hemen herri-helburu birth igotzea denik. We understand that we have a challenge that goes far beyond that. It has to do with breaking a system that is unfair and transiting to other models. It has to do with restoring new balances between productive and reproductive work. It has to do with care, with the distribution and redistribution of wealth, with quality employment, with the public investment that is made in each band in the different age groups, with the distribution of political power. In my opinion, it is our most urgent task to establish new balances, the balance to recover dignity and happiness. I think that's our priority, that must be our priority, and that's what I said before, perhaps from that happiness, from that dignity, may possibly be made to increase the rate of identity. Maybe with that allegory. Maybe you don't. Let the people decide. But that's not going to get away with what you've got in this middle place. At first a confusion, a mixture of different subjects. And in the other, a trail that goes nowhere. And we can't share that. We don't cross roads that don't go anywhere.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists. Mrs Sánchez from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u171	From the seat because I'm going to be brief. Look, Mrs Gonzalez, it's not like we go down to the ground, it's like we step on the ground all the time when we work out our policies. It seems that only if we accept or agree with you is what comes out of there stupendous, and when we do not accept or agree, it seems that only what you put forward was the most important thing in the world, and if you do not accept that is that it is not good what is traded or agreed by other parties. And if we draw up or gather the concrete commitment to make the plan and set it a deadline, it's wrong, but if we don't put it in, it's wrong, too. Of course, only if you intervene in that agreement, the solution, perhaps, seems good to you. And it's not like that. I believe that the compromise amendment contains a specific agreement to draw up that plan and sets a time frame for that drawing up. And I think that's what's important, and that's what we need to see. I have already indicated why we did not agree with the issues you raised. Others that you raised are included in our own compromise amendment. With which, with those at least I should agree. And to set a real time frame, a time frame that can be a nine-month time frame, a real time frame to be able to arrive, to give that necessary participation that is done by the Basque Government when it is carried out and these strategies are developed to then draw up the plans. And that is the case, and we do not agree that that period is the three-month period that you proposed because that is not real; it is that in three months it does not give time to be able to do well, if you want to do all that work well. And that is why we have agreed to that compromise amendment as we have signed it. And for my part nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u172	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we have reached an agreement that set the government a nine-month deadline, and that is a curiosity, isn't it?, with the seriousness that the issue requires, we give the government nine months so that it can develop a plan that will study the situation well. But, well, focusing on concrete things, Mrs González, you have told us about theoretical frameworks, and you have started quoting Marx, and we have no concrete proposals. I have brought you here concrete proposals when the one you have been here talking about theoretical frameworks has been you. And on the other hand, I'd like to tell you something. Look, every Thursday, when he comes out here, I hear him talking about the pain that gives him not being able to reach agreements; about the self-criticism that we all have to do; about how sad he is here because we are not able to reach agreements, and to a large extent I can share with you, but today there has been an agreement, today there has been an agreement that, if I don't count badly, there are 31 plus 10, 41, plus 6, 47, and there has been an agreement of some groups that we have reached, and you haven't reached an agreement. We went to talk to you, see if you wanted to join. Neither have you made any counterproposals to us... Therefore, there has been agreement, another thing is that you did not want to include yourself in this agreement. And Madame Kortja's, you've talked about the problem with the demographic challenge that only the measures on association are not going to solve. I agree. And I didn't tell you that the precise measures that have been taken only by themselves have been connected with the combination, many other measures have been taken. So I don't know where you got that. And then you are talking about a concrete measure that is going to start in April. It is that, look, it is a concrete measure of this current situation. And I believe that what precisely defines good rulers, good rulers, is that they take steps to solve the problems that are emerging. And now we have a problem and the good rulers take concrete steps and, moreover, the times are what they are, but it is applied retroactively. And then he says he doesn't help our amendment solve the demographic challenge. I do not know whether our amendment will help or not, what I would like to know is, does yours really help? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u174	Thank you, Mr. Díez. The discussion is over. Popular Party-Ciudadans, Basque Socialists, we'll vote for the middle-term correction signed by the Eubertarians. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the council, 42; 75; the supporters, 47; the opponents 27; the contrary, the abstainments 1, the white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-29.u175	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was six o'clock in the afternoon.
