ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I remind you that 32 lords and ladies have inherited the vote and left the seventh point for another. First point in theme list: "To change the bill of law made by the parliamentary group, the family separation or rupture of the case of parents, the 7/2015 law of June 30th. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we're going to argue. As they're on a side shift and a counter turn, in addition to the EH rolls, someone else on the side? Yeah? Side shift? Okay. Madam Houseboy, representative of the EH Union, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u1	Thank you, good morning. Well, in the first place, I'd like to begin by thanking all the people who were involved in this law during the legislature. Such are the comings and goings of politics; and it is curious that in its time we have not here with us, at present, any one who had introduced and defended the law, has been employed in other works and occupations. But first of all, because of the work we have to thank them all for, we shall not begin with the discussion of the law which we have brought here; we shall work with the theoretical basis of all the pontes or orators who are brought here. And especially in my case, at least, I want to thank Jone, who was the first to bring the law here, and who has tried to pass this view of his jurist to a person who is a reporter in this case; it is not easy to enter into these particulars for those who are neither advocates nor jurists, but we have good people about us who will help us in it. And I am especially glad that the members of our work for this law are also descended from an association for feminist and equality, and that we wish to give this point of view, and that we understand this form of law. At least we continue to insist that it was necessary and that it should be so. We'd like to thank all the experts who came to make a classification about the law and the terms of reform, too. There were few who passed through this legislature, who left their knowledge here, and, well, in the newspapers and the like, we have to reread what they did, or what they said. I guess we beginners in this or that point have done that and at least learn a lot about what they say. In the legislation that passed, there was but a short time before writing and sharing the texts, but election progress forced us to leave the process for another, and we are back again. The Presidency of the Themis of the Women Association said that this was a law created by guilitarianism, i.e., the relation of power and the differences that exist are not taken notice of, puts individuals into a supposed equality in this law, and it is comprehended in these differences and relations of power, which the necessary observer declared to penetrate into it. And when these differences and relations of power are brought together in a very violent manner, when they are obliged to live in the intercourse of violence, the care of the community ought not to have room. In Esquimia Esquimia, 2018, 5640 was charged, and only 458 was established. Even 10 percent of the case doesn't hold that temporary suspense. How is it possible to grant them the right of continuing to communicate in all other cases with their children? The children are the right victims. The treaty of Istanbul says, and the reform of the equality of 2005 law receives the same: Children who have lived or survived a state of violence are direct victims, just victims of machista violence. If we were to add that their highest interest has been admitted above all other rules by several conventions, we would have little to say. Children have been used in many cases to perpetuate violence. Many women who have suffered male violence and forced their children to visit the visits have accused him at that time of which children have followed violence. And once more, children in the machista of violence. Besides, we're asking them to put these rubber measures, knowing that the myth of false accusations is simply a myth, a myth. Investigations clearly say: in the case of the case, it is only in 0.079 that there are false accusations. And based on this anecdotic data, we leave the other 99,93% unprotected? The same results, when the transition of the law was proceeding before 2015, observed that the primary care is extremely dangerous in cases of violence against women, especially in cases where there is no accusation against them. Hence, in this proposition, the exact mention of the rating is made, not only in cases accused, but in whatever the judges themselves think. We know, however, that it requires proposals, specifications, and corrections. We know that it has defects, and that it is necessary to conform to legal terminology in some cases. We have introduced it as we did in its own time, because we thought we had begun it; and we thought we ought to make these corrections together from what we heard, and from what we had received. What I ask of you is, to all groups, to consider what work our predecessors did, what all the sciences that have been left behind, and which we shall now continue to build. Once again, I would be grateful to all the groups which will allow this legal treatment with their vote for him today, because it is necessary to be constantly observing the legal or institutional arrangement we have. The feminist movement, the principle of equality, the professionals... by their industry they continually give light to one of the most serious affairs of our society, which is still too obscure. The recommendations, requests, teachings that come out of that light. we are obliged to be constantly ready to work together, to be constantly attentive to it. This admission to the present day is another step on this road: that which is ill made up, by what has been learned, and by the means of building free lives. Thank you, everyone. Yesterday, tomorrow, and every day, because November 25th, we won't give up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. González has the word, representatives of the Podemos IU team together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u3	Good morning, everyone. Children and teenagers are citizens who are in a very weak condition. They live in a society which is older and older, and they are found in an adultothetic and patriarchal system. They're in a system that places them in a secondary place. They often become invisible to public politics, when they make decisions, and do not consider their specific interests. It is common to hear that they are the future, when in reality childhood and adolescence are the present. Citizens, who, because of the vital stage they are in, require special policies and measures for their protection and for the full exercise of their rights. The last legislature was discussed carefully here on the rights of boys and girls, and, following an initiative by our parliamentary group, we were able to adopt the non-law proposal which proposed to incorporate the principle of the best interests of the child into all social policies and actions of the public administration. Today, in order to consider the legal proposition that EH Collect has brought us, we cannot omit the agreement, and we must recover two important points which this legislature promised. Incorporating the principle of the best interests of children and adolescents, in a cross-cutting manner, as set out in all public policies and actions of the public administration. And incorporate the principle of the best interests of children and adolescents, and measures in the draft law on sexist violence, so that it applies both to girls and adolescents and to adult couples or ex-partners who engage in sexist violence against adult women and their children and underage children. Gaur, told hartzen of some law-proposamenak, beraz, harrak gure Autonomia Erkidegoko politica eta Arauetan due interest gorenaren printipio hori zeharkakotzeko beharrari werentzuten god. Ildo horretan, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unidak adierazi du ados dagoela helburu hori lortzeko beste urrats bat ematearekin, éta familia-harremanen arloko egungo legeria egokitzearekin. Horrela, banantze edo hausturen kasuan, erdigunean haurren interest gorena jartzen da. It's a human rights issue. The Convention on the Rights of the Child, on the one hand, and the European Parliament's resolution on the European Charter of the Rights of the Child, on the other, set out in its first articles the fundamental principles which must guide all institutional actions, including this best interest. In the words of the intermediary, this interest is the proper reinforcement of the wants of the minor. This means that all the rights admitted by convention must be made absolutely and efficiently used. It is a substantive right, an imperative legal principle and a rule of procedure. This implies that, whenever a decision has to be made affecting a girl or a child, the decision-making process must include the possible impact (positive or negative) on the decision to be taken. And by landing within the framework of family relations and the processes of separation and rupture, we cannot neglect this principle and its importance in protecting against violence. Whether as sons or daughters of victims of gender-based violence or as victims of violence directly against them or against them. Oraindik bide lumaea dugu egiteko interest horren aberara eta benetako genero-ikuspegiarekin garden duen eta aipatuk duen Justiziaz hitz egin ahal izazko. 2005ean, emakumeen aurkako indarkeriaren epaitegiak sortzea aurrerapauso handia izan zen. But that is not enough, and we must continue to make progress on changes such as the proposal today by EH Bildu. And we must continue to deepen the training of all the staff of the Administration of Justice. And in this sense, from the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, we proposed and agreed several budget items in the last legislature. We're glad to have the transfer of this law-reform started. For, as I have already remarked, he answers to a very clear and necessary proclamation. As part of the parliamentary process, we will also have the opportunity to discuss and deepen proposals for changing the approach they make, and also to bring current legislation into line with international human rights standards. So we'll take another step on the way to strengthen the society and feminist justice that puts children's rights in the centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u4	Thank you, Mrs. González. Does someone have to participate in the opposite round? On the other side? So, Mrs Martínez, your representative Misto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I want to begin my intervention, on a day like today, showing my revulsion and condemnation of all forms of violence against women. And I say all kinds, not only the exercise by a man, but also the exercise by other women. Having said that, the proposed law put on the table by the EH Bildu group, from our point of view, is unconstitutional. And it is because it undermines the fundamental principle that every rule of law must preserve; of course, I mean the presumption of innocence. The proposal they have put forward abounds in a law that is profoundly unfair to half of the Spaniards and, therefore, to half of the Basques. You, in your proposal, do not take into account the diversity of cases. Not all facts have the same gravity and, therefore, not all end up in a conviction. What you are asking is to punish the man, the parent, as soon as he mediates a report of gender-based violence. You stand as judges. They don't need a judge to rule whether or not he's guilty. For you, it is enough to file a complaint so that the father loses all the rights to see and enjoy his children. If the complaint turns out to be false, we punish the father unjustly, but nothing happens. In their proposal for a law, they add that, normally, the abusers are the parents, so they open a statistic, and recognize that, although to a lesser extent, there are also abusive and murderous mothers. I must also add that, although these last cases are not given so much media coverage, perhaps because of a hidden interest, we have recently seen cases in the press and television. I'll list some of them, in case they've forgotten: 27 January 2020. Mother kills her five-year-old daughter and grandmother in Logroño, and then commits suicide. 6 July 2020. Mother kills her six-year-old son in central Madrid, causing him to eat no less than 80 pills. 14 October 2020. Mother gives birth, kills her baby, and gets rid of him by putting him in a garbage bag. I could continue to list many more. My question is: don't these children deserve to be abused or killed by their mother as well as the protection they receive from the abused or murdered by the father? Don't they deserve the same protection as the abuser or killer the father or mother? This leads us to reaffirm that we cannot talk about gender-based violence, but about domestic violence. Interestingly, on 19 November 2020, Urnieta's PES signed an agreement to include men as victims of gender-based violence, following the murder of a man. In this proposal that he has brought to the table EH Bildu, he does not speak only of girls who suffer gender-based violence. It also includes children. Of course, children also suffer from family abuse. I wish that the efforts made with children were as great as those made with gender-based violence. And I'm going to finish my speech by reproducing a few words from my friend and colleague Macarena Olona. As a woman, as a mother, as a sister, as a Basque, as a Spanish, as a politician, I say, and it is an honor for me to do it here today, that "violence has no gender", ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u6	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Reply's turn... If the discussion is over, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters are 68; the contrary is 1. Absence, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u7	So the bill will be considered. Next, we'll go to the vote. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician, good morning to all. Well, we've given him abscession, but we agree with the purpose of the proposition. And that's why, well, we haven't denied the transmissitation of this legal proposition. Besides, I think we'll have a chance to improve the proposed proposal. As stated in the proposed law submitted by EH Bildu, we do have to say that we regret that it is the same one that was presented in the last legislature. And I say that I regret that this initiative has already taken place throughout the previous parliamentary term, and many experts have suggested concrete proposals regarding the improvement of the original text of the EH Bildu initiative last parliamentary term, which we have seen have not been incorporated this time. And we would have liked it... well, as far as possible, it is true that there is now going to be a processing, which will make these changes possible, because the proposing group would have echoed some concrete suggestions and proposals made by the experts, as he said. But we are not going to oppose – and we have not in fact opposed, with our abstention – the processing of this initiative, of this proposal for a law, because, as it could not otherwise be, we share the aim of combating gender-based violence, the scourge of gender-based violence, with all the instruments, in all the ways that we can have at our disposal. And this, no doubt, can be one more. Of course, our goal, too, that we believe it is one of the purposes that can also accompany the spirit of this original initiative, is to protect children, those in charge, in a situation of gender-based violence. As I said, another different issue is the form chosen to achieve that objective. We believe, too, as was raised in the debate and in the consideration of the last legislature, and it was incorporated into the Government's own favourable approach of 2018, the most appropriate formula was... at that time the amendment of the draft comprehensive law against gender violence was under way, and we all – of course, many – agreed that that was the right way. It is true that this process fell at the end of the legislature. As I said, we do not share the specific wording that has been provided for the articles that are intended to be amended. Nor do we agree that the proposal is based on pointing out, for example, the absence of a gender perspective of the Administration of Justice by the courts, as reflected in the explanatory statement. I would also like to make a number of comments, as the Government points out in its favourable opinion, on the lack of statistical and factual baggage on which the law is based in principle. And I also think it is important to have consideration, as is also pointed out in the Government's favourable approach, but it is quite critical, as it was also in 2018, in relation to the procedure, with warnings on specific issues to which I will now also refer. But, also, it seems important to me, as I said, to point out that not all criminal proceedings opened for gender-based violence are of the same gravity, not all persons involved are to the same extent or with the same degree of authorship, not all proceedings end in conviction, but that this is an important consideration that is made in this favourable approach of the Government. I'd also like to remember, because I had a chance to participate in... by the People's Group, in 2015, in the processing of the law on shared custody, and I have to say that we made an important effort, at that time, therefore, all those who participated in the processing of that law, to be very careful with a lot of questions and also to give a fairly broad scope, guarantees, above all, in the time to be able to then apply that law, and, above all, to give tools also to the judges. And, in that regard, I must point out that the general rule is not applicable when there is a final sentence for gender-based violence, neither custody nor visits nor communications, and it was also taken a step further by regulating that judges might not give joint custody if there were well-founded indications. And I would also like to conclude by referring to the fact that, of course, we believe that the proposing group could have improved this text, because we are dealing with a text that has already been shown to have shortcomings in the previous parliamentary term, with all those proposals put forward by the experts, and I conclude, Madam President. It also seemed important, as indicated in the Government's favourable approach, that, before the deadline for amendments was opened, this bill could be referred to the Basque Civil Law Commission for its report; I believe that there could be a collision there in some respects, and it would be appropriate, if we wanted to draw up a rigorous text and that it was also appropriate for the purpose of pursuing the original proposal of the proposer, to report on this issue by this body.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u9	Thank you... Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Gallástegui, Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u10	Thank you, Mr. President, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group has just voted in favour of taking into consideration the proposed law put forward by the parliamentary group EH Bildu in order to amend Law 7/2015 of 30 June, and this is not the first time it has done so. It has also done so, as many of those present in this House will recall, not so long ago, in particular at the sitting on 7 February of the 19th, in which an identical, identical proposal was discussed. So today, apart from sending a hug to my colleague Alexia Castelo, who was the one who defended the position of the Basque Socialists, brilliantly as always, I will thank him for facilitating my work, fundamentally, because that position, today, remains unchanged. And you will also remember that the colloquially called shared custody law never enjoyed the endorsement of the Basque Socialists, when it was passed on June 30, 2015. A law which, in our view, in the opinion of our parliamentary group, among other things, we considered and considered incongruent, because, as we said at the time, it devotes more normative development to purely economic issues, such as the liquidation of the... or family housing – he speaks, specifically, of family housing – which is in the custody of the children themselves, and also unnecessary, because he has not exceeded the provisions of the Civil Code nor the jurisprudence of the First Chamber of the Supreme Court. But the law, moreover, was based on a wrong promise, which was that of the alleged promotion of equality between women and men, forgetting the nuclear core, the nuclear object, the issue, which is and remains, in fact, the best interests of minors, which is the legal good to be protected. And from that premise alone, it will be equality in the exercise of the shared responsibilities of the parents, from the birth of the children, which must be determined, where appropriate, at the time when the relationship is broken or when the corresponding paternal relations have to be established, whether the system of shared custody is the most appropriate or not, and not the other way around, which was the intention of the proponents when they presented the law. The Socialists consider, and we have always said this, that the core from which any normative framework or any modification of the normative framework affecting the situation of children, during and after the relationship of their parents, should be – I insist – the sole and exclusive protection and guarantee of their interests. In our view, as we have said before and we will repeat it again and again, the ideal custody and custody, ladies and gentlemen, will be that which is appropriate to the typology of each family, to each specific case, to each individual situation and, therefore, the best custody will be given by creating a customised suit for each situation. Hard, no; it's a matter of interest. Today, EH Bildu is proposing to us a modification of the law in the same terms as the last legislature, and I thank you very much for your attitude and your action, but it seems to us insufficient and also seems to us to be out of focus; they should, I think, have learned something after the 2019 debate, but the truth is that no one, absolutely no one, can discuss the imperative of improving the institutional response that women victims of sexist violence must receive, in order to guarantee their safety and protection and to improve their confidence in the institutions, and also the urgent need to address the situation of the children and children directly victims of sexist violence, to what will undoubtedly contribute – and I believe it will certainly contribute – to the draft Organic Law on Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence, currently under parliamentary procedure. Nor do we share, in particular, the wording of the articles that are intended to be amended. But we do share that it is necessary to reflect and analyze the application of the law in these... in certain cases. In particular, in cases related to gender-based violence, because our children are, in fact, directly victims of sexist violence, in accordance with the Istanbul Convention. The analysis and the debate seem absolutely necessary to us. In this regard, it should be noted that legislative measures are already being taken to develop the State Pact against Gender Violence itself. And in addition, that law I was talking about, that organic law on comprehensive protection of children and adolescents... "I'm finishing, President; 10 seconds," he was talking about, "will imply the fulfillment – obviously, in a development – of the measures of that pact, specifically those affecting numbers 144, 145 and 146. The aim of this amendment is clear. But I would also like you to bear in mind that we do not ignore the limits of competition that this Parliament has. In any case, and as it cannot be otherwise, we wish this bill a satisfactory and fruitful parliamentary tour...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u11	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u12	...to achieve that goal, which is nothing but the protection of the rights of our children. Thank you very much, President; you have been very kind.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Mrs. Arrivalga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all. I'll be quick. In order to change the Euscala City, 7/2015 of June 30, the family separation or rupture of parents on the preceding law, as has been said by the Council of Government in 2018, well... The same remark is repeated at the same time... the same has also been introduced. And, alas, what was left to cease at the end of the legislature. Now, again, we are facing the same initiative. The Board of Government has declared it to you, and even to you, it's already... or that he has a judgment of taking notice of his change. Our party, then, of the eubertarian party, has voted for this change for consent or favor, and we will not hinder the transferment of the law. However, I must say, well, we know there's a lot of work going on in front of us. As Mrs. Galástegui said, well, in form, there will be several things to be arranged: the government and our party have considered it necessary, and well, as well as the educating of educators, and the work of different groups and other representatives in the course of the law that passed. The legal proposition proposes to change the 7/2015 law of June, to interrupt communication and visiting, if one of the parents is in a cause for the profundity of the genus, from the double view of the protection of the woman or of the childless. The equipment justifies the need of reform. In other words, the aim of the organic law of December 1/2004, 28, against the Egyptian power, does not succeed, considering that it is not enough for the communication of the fathers in the processing of the genus, for the violation of their visit, and for the violation of their rule of abode. It is a law of organic nature, and, as the party who has proposed it determines, it projects from a global and integrated point of view on both sides. It is also recommended by the interrogator to reform the law, to establish it, as to a woman who is necessarily a victim of the force of the genus, when a judicial measure is taken to leave the place, to divert, or interrupt communications, either by a visitment to the condemned, or at times by a specific decision of interruption. We see it's very technical, isn't it? That's a very technical look. And, well, we have to be strict. That's what we know, okay? To be strict, to be responsible and responsible for the law. But we can give this initiative a different value, can we not? And Mrs. "Another look. Adventure, legal, and, on the other hand, feminist look." And I think, in truth, that it will give him an additional value and an additional value, because he joins the Wordmen of Istanbul. It's well known. I'll repeat it again, but it's known to all of you that the commitment to the organizational policy is perfect. We've always had a step to do what the Wordmen of Istanbul said. And this is different. We know it's not going to be easy, but we'll try to get those two eyes together because we think it's possible. And that's what we're going to do until we're not one anymore. That's all, thank you all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Second point on the subject list: "Mutation, introduced by Isabel González Rodríguz together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU team, in order to prevent violence in the context of COVID-19 from taking advantage of the fine measures which have been taken to guard and protect. Discipline and final resolution. Before I started, I forgot to say that the fifth point is left for another. Even at this point, I think we'd like a little bit of it, wouldn't we? Before we start talking, right? Okay. Well, then, take all the time you need, and we'll keep going when you say... [[Berber]] 15 minutes? [[Berber]] And... What? If there's any problems for you to go to third point and while you... ? Are the others ready, the following points? That too... It's the next point, Muriel. Are you ready? And the rest, too? If you want to, you take your time easy. Yeah? Well, okay. Then we'll go to the third point. Point three: "Motion, Muriel Larre Laso Eusola, Populous Group of the Ciudadans, the result of the total closes of the sex-based hosting department. Discipline and final resolution. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u16	Good morning. Thank you, President. It was necessary to present this motion to defend the hospitality sector so severely punished by the pandemic and the disinterest of this government and of which you support in Moncloa. First, because it's not fair for political decisions to decide who gets ruined and who doesn't. Second. Because they have been unjustly vilified, by raising doubts, nothing more and nothing less than you, Mr Lehendakari, about the billing of this sector. That, of course, without any complaint or investigation. Generalizations are never fair, and getting carried away by rumors or commonplaces is not a good way to act either. But such an insidia in the mouth of a political leader is absolutely unacceptable. To finish it, a few days ago Mr Ortuzar said, somewhat more or less, that the hoteliers are crying and that it was not for so long, that the PNV knows much about the closure of the hotelry, since it has 100 batzokis First: Do you have an activity license in all batzokis batzokis But, yes, you allow yourself the luxury of pointing out to the hoteliers. And I'm not going to talk about the PNV anymore, because I'm really interested in those 65,000 people who are dependent on the hospitality sector, who are currently in economic difficulties in Euskadi and who don't know how to deal with their bills on a day-to-day basis. If 65,000 people continue to have income and the certainty that those who govern will not let them fall, they would again consume in the trade, the aesthetic centers, even in the hospitality, which could be open if other negotiations had been reached. That's what this is about, gentlemen. You don't have to go very far, just two minutes on the streets of any Basque municipality, to see situations of difficulty, posters of "Se alquila" or "Se vendita", or a moment to pass through the offices of the basic social services of any municipality. When you are speaking in Madrid – some, with Sánchez – in a tone of Basque independent republic, here the Basques are going through hardships. You're not being able to solve... you don't put it easy at all. So many meths, this government or that government! The hoteliers have paid their taxes, adapted and invested what is necessary to comply with the sanitary measures to which they were required to be able to carry out their activity, because they have bought more tables, more chairs, to expand their terraces when they could not attend inside, because they have bought the necessary structures to close the terraces, which could be closed. And that's all money out of his pocket. They asked for ICO loans, but they can't even afford them anymore. You just have to step on the street; I've told you before. Feel the moods of society; stop playing triler games, include everyone. And when I tell everyone, it's the whole hospitality sector, including party rooms, dance halls, and so on. That is why, today in this plenary, from the People's Party-Citizens, we extend our hand to them to resolutely face the rescue of a sector, the hospitality sector, because rescuing the hospitality industry is to prevent the income of thousands of families from falling and to prevent the supply chain from falling with them as well. What the hell are the administrations for, they ask themselves a lot of Basques? Why does the public exist if it does not help those in difficulty? Today, now, those who are in difficulty are traders, self-employed and, in particular, hoteliers, who have been forced to close their source of income. You have tabled a whole amendment, the PNV gentlemen, which more or less comes to say that you have to follow the same line, see what are the results of the lines of aid that you have proposed. But are they not realizing the result? Didn't they go to the street? Haven't you heard they're not necessary? Have you not heard the cry of the hoteliers? Do you not listen to society, which cries out for solutions? The money from the Basques is not for 1.7 million to be spent on vehicles from high government offices, but for it to be converted into services to society, which is the one paying taxes. Today the hoteliers; tomorrow who needs it. One cannot be in politics to live by the story and do as one does, but to adopt solutions to the real problems. Solutions, no more problems, or, since we are, more excuses. Ask the discotheques, excluded from the hospitality aid, as if the dance halls were not closed. Once again, they cheat, and they exclude one here, the other there. I want to remind you that these hotel venues, which are the dance halls – yes, the discotheques – have to be included in the rescue fund. I don't understand what this game of trilers is for; I repeat. For this reason and for all the reasons set out above, since the opposition, we have had to come up with solutions for this sector, as we will, and we have proposed them for others: First, we want the Basque Government to propose and urge, as a matter of urgency, in coordination with the rest of the administrations, a rescue plan for the hospitality sector in the Basque Autonomous Community. A sector seriously affected by the measures taken by the various governments in relation to the COVID pandemic, and particularly by the forced closure established by the Basque Government in November. This plan must include – first, essential – financing, amounting to EUR 200 million, as a matter of urgency, as a non-reimbursable, lost-fund aid for the hospitality sector. Secondly, improving the conditions and funding lines or moratoria of loans and mortgages. In some cases it is up to you; in others, you can mediate, support or endorse. Thirdly, there is a fluid dialogue with the outlaws of the three historical territories in the area of IRPF or VAT, but also with regard to the change of tax rules, if necessary, so as to enable the municipalities to introduce tax subsidies and/or exemptions on municipal management taxes. We're talking about IBI, IAE, terrace fees, garbage... For the development of the plan, the Basque Government will need to maintain a direct dialogue with the Patronage of the sector of the three provinces, in a different tone from that of the past. This is the only way to assess the adoption of other alternative COVID containment measures and to receive input from sectors in relation to support measures. Talk to the hoteliers; be flexible. Allow those who have accepted the delivery formula There are still shifts in other sectors, why not in the delivery Another important axis we want is to activate negotiations with the Government of Spain for a twofold objective: to extend ERTs and achieve a 100% bonus in social security contributions, while the closure has been decreed and 75 % of the activity in the sector has not been achieved. This is what they should be negotiating in the budgets, and not other things. Ladies and gentlemen of PNV, PSE, Podemos, Bildu and Vox, support all those people who are having a bad time. Today, hoteliers; tomorrow, whatever comes. Let us show what the administrations are doing at this time of discredit. We are here to serve, to help; do not look elsewhere, do not think that the rents of your batzokis Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, together the representative of the Podemos-IU, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u18	Good morning, congressmen. Birusaren aurkako neuroriek eragin zuzena due ekonomian eta jendaren bizitzan. Horregatik defendzen dugu, bear-neors Bakoitzerekin beats, neurons ekonomikoak hartu behar say it. Ados gaude kaltetutako sektoreei laguntzarekin, bathe ez edonola. Shop Bakoitzaren ezaugarriak eta egora hartu behar dira kontuan, éa guretzat helburua lanpostuak tentzea da. We agree that the sectors concerned must be helped, but we also think that this cannot be done in any way. First, because not all businesses start from the same situation or have the same characteristics. That is why we have tabled an amendment, where we have proposed or divided the measures and the aid into two blocks, let us say: direct ones, for the impact that is currently suffering, above all, indeed, the hospitality industry, because they are obliged to close; but then another series of measures for a lot of small businesses that are not obliged to close, but which are also suffering the impact of the measures being taken and which, as you know, we do not question, measures necessary to cut off the transmission of the virus, but which we have always said that these measures must be accompanied by economic measures. Because, if not, then they are actually going to sink economically many people who depend on these sectors, these small and medium-sized businesses. We put in place concrete measures for the impact of closures, but also taking into account, as I said, some considerations. In particular, we think that account must be taken of the number of workers – as, in some ways, it has already been done with some of the measures which, in our opinion, have also heard us say, are scarce, but which have been put in place, but which take account of this – we think it is important to take into account the number of workers that each business has. And about the other measures, those of small businesses that are not obliged to close but that are being very hard hit, and we can talk from taxi drivers to dance academies, to travel agencies, that have recently also come out to claim that they are being very hard hit. And in all sectors there are large companies, and there are small companies. And we believe that these characteristics must be taken into account when it comes to support, because it is not the same as a company which, when this situation has arrived, had a good economic situation than those which may have arrived more adjusted; that is, those which could have had certain benefits previously, and those which did not. We think all this has to be taken into consideration. And so, as I was saying, we've proposed two types and we've separated them. Because it is true that, in those who are obliged to close, the billing, obviously, is zero during the time they are obliged to close. And we also propose, in view of the aid to those who are obliged to close, to take account also of the process of descalation, so to speak. Because we know, because they told us so, because on the previous occasion when the period of closure was over, the descaled also has some characteristics in which their billing is affected in a certain way. Well, we raised this. We also believe that there is a need from Governments to address the issue of rent limitation, which is one of the major problems they also have at the moment. And working with municipal authorities, because not only economic aid can be taken. It is true that some are already taking other measures, but it seemed important to us that if a non-legislative proposal were to come out of this Parliament, this issue should be included. We are going to defend our amendment, because we have not negotiated with anyone. The proposing group therefore considered that perhaps there were not enough elements to negotiate. I think so. It's true that we could have concrete differences when... if we went down in detail. But, well, this hasn't been the case. And, therefore, we are going to defend our amendment. In any case, I believe... and I believe that throughout the debate, and this is not the first time that we are discussing this issue in these months, I believe that it is clear that the Government must, of course, make even greater efforts to help health measures to cut the virus do not affect the way they are affecting the lives of people who depend on certain sectors. We, therefore, say: measures to cut off the virus, yes; but, every measure to cut off the virus, we must accompany it with economic measures to cut off the significance of the virus in life and in the subsistence of people. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u19	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u20	Good morning, everyone. Today, we'll talk about the host and we'll talk about the host because we have to talk about the host. There was a problem, there's a problem, and there'll be a problem as long as it doesn't deal with that problem. Therefore we have come again to ask for some measures of support, for these measures are indispensable if we wish to remain as we know." I will not give too much data, because the data is already given, because most of them are given; but, to place the dimension of the theme, at least two or three details, yes. Host presupposes %,4% of the raw product of our member and 6% of the job. It's supposed to be more than 60,000 people working at the hoststore. Of these, 15,000 is an autonomous area, and the other 45,000 people work under salary. This is the host attorney's dimension. What's the situation? I'll repeat the data the orchestra has placed on the table until it's over and over again. The Orkestra Institute examined the most vulnerable economic sector of our economic economy, the sector that has most been attacked by the crisis, and the hostship is located in the head, the most vulnerable, the most menacing, the most serious. Host associations have spent a data in the following weeks: their billing has dropped 40% this year, due to the reductions caused by the crisis. Eupstate recently confirmed these facts a couple of weeks ago, and said that the income in the host has dropped about 38% of a coma. We, too, have insisted that the reduction of money, in a proportion or proportion, does not mean that the profits, the benefits, the pay, and the money which it brings home, are in the same proportion. Nay, they suppose a low income of this kind, not less than 40%, but a lot of money, losing a lot of money. And I've brought an example given by a guest in Barakaldo, the real accounts of his business. This is an example, not a statistical examination, but it's a business that went down 41% this year. And it's been getting 2,000 euros clean every month, losing $7,000 a month. That's what's supposed to be 40% of the way down. And according to the contrasts made by other hosts, in this proportion, and according to the dimensions of business, these proportions are retained, by 40%, with this decrease: 2,000 euros, losing 7,000 euros. And regardless of that, the November lock, and the end of the year, it'll be a lousy one. What's that supposed to mean? Well, on September 30th, this person is going to lose 7.000 times 8, times 9, almost 60,000 euros a year, almost 70,000. That's a dramatic situation. That's a dramatic situation, and that doesn't get along with the sizes of the funk. New measures are required, correct, and sufficient; otherwise there is no future. What did this person do, the business manager? Well, get credit. And asking for credit, he covered the holes. But a moment will come when the savings end, the help of friends that must be faced with credit, and the business must be closed. That's the real situation today, where there's a major hostship sector. Bars won't disappear. I'm a kid of eighty years old. I learned EGB. And when I was a kid, in eighty years, there was a sociological phenomenon that was called a nuclear fear, right? Because at that time the threat of nuclear war was very present, and we were all afraid that there would be a war. And I learned the type of weapons, and I saw that there was a neutral bomb that was called a bomb. And that bomb was what it was doing: living creatures died, but buildings and vehicles were preserved. And that's what's going to happen to bars. The bars won't be destroyed, the subsidies will stay there. But as a businessman, they'll fail. And the people who are back there will fail in many cases. In many cases, the situation is not supportable. And it doesn't get along with the precautions they've been up to. It was mentioned before that an interview was given by Mr. Ortuzar. And he used to mention that other sectors were in critical circumstances and that they needed help. First of all, we have to say that there haven't been a lot of help in those other sectors. It's all the same to me, personally, to be with people in the world of hosting, and also to be with workers who are in critical condition in industrial companies. And I don't have any prefectship. They're all people, everyone has the same rights. But I know that when a company closes, or when mass releases are articulated, some conditions are negotiated, and in most cases they are paid for a discount. And they're going home to collect unemployment, and well, 15, 20, 25,000 euros, industrial workers. And I confirm in the dramatic situation in many cases. And that doesn't make him think he's harmed by losing his job. But, autonomists, if they fail, don't go home under those conditions. Doaz with a backpack with a stacked bag: they are in debt. A personal failure and an economic failure with a bankbook of debt. I was saying, that in a hosting scene, there is a very pretty word to define employment: bread March 14th, full closure of the bars. On May 4, they open restaurants and bars, just to carry. On May 11, they open terraces, without interior. On 25 May, 50%, inside and out. June 8th, full strike; a small period of normality. On 17 October, again, a 50 % discount and closing at 12 o'clock. 23 October, red zone, closing at nine o'clock, and the rest just like the previous one. October 26th, curfew at eleven. November 7th, full shutdown. And from the recovery, probably from the 10th of December, of the reopening of the establishments, probably with other restrictions. It can't work like that. You can't survive. You can't keep a business. How many times do we have to repeat it so that those who have to make the decisions are aware of it? That's how you can't survive. And with 3,000 euros to make up for this, it's not enough either. And these people have done nothing wrong. And if we're here again and again with the hospitality, it's because they've had Chinese. If a meteorite fell in a part of this country, we would help the people the meteorite fell on. And they wouldn't be more or less than others, they'd be the ones who need it right now. Eta, moment hauetan, gure laguntza eta instituien laguntza behar dutenak ostalaritzako langileak dira. That's why we're not just today because since the law began, we're focusing on the host because the situation was foreseen, because the situation already comes. And only because it was a close one for this situation, but the sector was already very damaged. That's why we're planning an integral plan. An integral plan, agreed to all of us. Insensitations, but also the agents of the sector, because they know the elements that are required to us, which may be very important. They must participate in the design of this plan. Complimented with institutions and sectors. Coordinated. Institutions, today-in short, are doing what each of them can, sometimes with will. It's with the will, but it's a council that provides money, and the next one, because it has different economic conditions, can't afford it. And then, the hosts of a village have a help that the people in the village don't have. This isn't fair. It's fun to coordinate all of this, and if you need help, you know, in a proportional way, with her condition, not with luck. Plans must be permanent, though in the present situation and the future are preserved by restrictions. And enough, it must be enough for him to live with dignity. On that plan, you have to talk about rents. We need to discuss compensations because the losses in the last few months will not disappear. And autonomouss will have to face these losses. So we have to make up for the loss of the past. And it must be calculated that the reductions of money which they will have in view of the reductions which will now be present. We also ask that we help the workers in the ERTU. This is a very feminizing sector. 28% of the workers are immigrants. Those who were precorrated by the same sector, and now those who are in the ERTAIN. These aren't autonomies, they're hired. We have sometimes said that the income, their income, is greater than that of the autonomous being in the ERTA, than that of their masters. But still it's not enough. And there's gotta be extras there. And doing this, if it has a cost. For all this, we would have to pay an invoice, logically. And an invoice that won't be cheap because the situation is not simple. But I do tell you that the bill for doing this can be high, but the bill for not doing so, in social and economic terms, is going to be much higher. Therefore, step out of your passivity, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Government, and act. And act with sufficiency and speed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u21	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u22	Yes, thank you, President, good morning. The Basque Socialists have tabled an amendment, together with the Basque Nationalist Group, in which we propose, in this case, to urge the Basque Government to carry out three specific actions within the framework of the Interdepartmental and Inter-institutional Bureau set up to address the measures of the tourism, hospitality and trade resistance plan: Firstly, the joint follow-up of the measures implemented by each of the institutions involved, the quantitative and qualitative assessment of each of the measures taken and the review of those measures, as well as the analysis of possible new measures. Secondly, we urge the Basque Government to maintain a close relationship with the Euskadi hospitality sector within the framework of cooperation, loyalty and support in which it is being carried out. Thirdly, we urge the Government of Spain, within the framework of the Social Dialogue Bureau with the social partners, to maintain measures to alleviate the effects of the economic crisis caused by COVID-19 and to consider its enlargement, if deemed necessary. And these three actions, Mrs Larrea, we propose because they are in line with the response that the Tourism, Commerce and Consumers Councillor gave to her on 13 November in this House and which are in addition to those already approved in the plenary last 29 October, regarding the planning of the Basque Government in the face of the serious situation that is facing the hospitality sector and also of trade and also of tourism. We start from a fact, and it's that the pandemic is in its second wave. In the world, in Europe, in Spain and in Euskadi, it is forcing measures to first preserve people's health and, due to the type of expansion of COVID-19, experts agree that the best way to curb this expansion is by limiting social interaction, and one of the most widespread measures is the closure of the hotel industry. Close, which, on the other hand, is not decreed on an improvised or random basis in Euskadi, but is taken on the basis of health criteria. And, depending on the measures adopted on the basis of health criteria, the actions that seek to alleviate the consequences of the pandemic, both in terms of economic and employment, are laid down. In order to make the measures more effective, the characteristics of the Basque hospitality sector have been specified and it has been determined to be 99,5 % by micro, small and autonomous enterprises. Of the 12,219 hostel establishments, 8,297 have between one and three workers; 3,224 have a staff of between four and ten, and 698 have more than 10 employees. Last 6 November, the measures agreed by LABI were published, which came into force the following day and, in three days, the Councillor for Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs presented to the Governing Council the order regulating and calling for aid to the hospitality sector, an order officially published on 18 November. And this order of the councillor of Tourism, Commerce and Consumers implements direct aids in the amount of 30 million euros, that joins to others that are part of the plan of resistance of the department itself, such as the 25 million euros for extraordinary aids, 8 million euros in ordinary aids, and also the 5.7 million euros for the bonds to consumer; that is, of 70 million euros, 45 have been directed and directed, specifically, to the sector of the hospitality. And the most important thing, to go to the thick outline of the last order of the councillor, of 13 November, is that the aid is directed to the autonomous people, to these micro-enterprises and small enterprises, and its primary objective is to help the maintenance of the activity, to alleviate the economic losses and also to contribute to the maintenance of employment. Therefore, the recipient establishments are required to maintain the activity for at least four months, following the resumption of the hospitality activity once restrictions are lifted. This aid, in addition to being direct aid, is compatible with other aid from other administrations and with the application of ERTs. Furthermore, in order to ensure that the aid is genuinely effective, a technical unit has been set up in the department for the urgent management of this direct aid. And if we raise in our amendment, as a first point, the need for the Interdepartmental and Interinstitutional Bureau, and that it carry out the monitoring, quantitative and qualitative evaluation and review of the measures that have been established, in addition to the possible analysis of the implementation of more measures, it is because the actions and programmes or aids that are going to be activated or are being implemented at the various institutional levels must be coordinated, all of them, in order to take advantage of synergies, to be more efficient, to be more effective. And the interdepartmental bureau of the Basque Government has also achieved the commitment of Elkargi, so that the financing lines of less than 10,000 euros requested, by companies and autonomous, can be managed as quickly as possible. Elkargi also has a fund of 250 million, to which these micro-enterprises and small enterprises can benefit, with very favourable conditions, to the zero percent interest, with a year of lack, so that they can sustain their businesses in the midst of crisis. The Spanish Government, Mrs Larrea, has also made it easier for women and women to have access to the special allowance for suspension of activity, with the amount of the allowance being 50% of the minimum contribution base corresponding to the activity carried out, an amount which can be increased by giving itself specific assumptions. The Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Immigration has also proposed for self-employed persons whether they are engaged in household or non-domestic activities the possibility of applying for the activity-compatible benefit if they have a 75% drop in turnover compared to the last quarter of last year or 50% in relation to the first quarter of this year 2020. The Government of Spain, Mrs Larrea, also approved, a couple of weeks ago, the extension of the deadline for the application of guarantees to the ICO, the extension of the maturity of loans over three years and the extension of the period of default in the main payment of loans by one year. Here, in Euskadi, Mrs Larrea, in addition to the Basque Government, the outlaws and the Basque municipalities, within their respective spheres of competence, are taking measures to alleviate the effects of this cessation of activity on the hotel industry. The most recent of yesterday's three out-of-pocket parliaments is the extension to 2021 of tax measures to support taxpayers most affected by the economic consequences of the pandemic. And so, for example, the limit on the exemption from payment of the IRPF is extended to certain income. And there are, Mrs Larrea, tax exemptions for the extraordinary aid granted by the public administrations to self-employed workers, as a result of the suspension, cessation or serious impairment of their activity due to COVID-19. And also the municipalities are implementing measures that help the hospitality at the moment of cessation of activity, such as those that were also launched during the confinement. And from Eudel, last 12 November a letter was sent to all the municipalities, in which they are informed of the measures that the sector requests of the local institutions, so that each municipality, according to its situation and the principle of local autonomy, decides, at every moment, the actions that it considers most appropriate. And here we have to make special relevance, special review, to the subject of the suspension of tax rules, which allow the municipalities to be in debt in order to confront this situation also of the COVID. The municipalities, Mrs Larrea, at least the municipalities with socialist mayors, are already working on the implementation of these measures for what they can expect in 2020, and budgetaryly for what can come in 2021. Therefore, Mrs Larrea, in view of the Basque institutional architecture, it is necessary, it is essential, coordination and the union of efforts between all the institutions, to overcome the situation that is suffering the hospitality industry. And that is what the Interdepartmental and Interinstitutional Bureau, which has recently been set up, aims to do. As we said on 29 October, coordination and collaboration with the Government of Spain is also necessary, which, in the area of its powers, both in the implementation and extension of the ERTE and through ICO credits and its flexibility by COVID, is incurring aid, amounting to almost 8% of Spain's gross domestic product. On the second point of our amendment, we urge the Basque Government to continue its close relationship with the hotel industry in Basque, within the framework of cooperation, loyalty and support in which it is being carried out. The evolution of the pandemic itself has placed us and continues to be faced with changing scenarios and, therefore, dialogue is essential with the sector, and it is also a personal and political commitment of the Tourism, Trade and Consumption Councillor. And with regard to the third point of our amendment, the Socialists have stated on quite a number of occasions, even through our secretary-general, Idoia Mendia, the current second vice-lehendakari, that the ERTEs have been very important, and that they support 188,488 jobs here in Euskadi. Therefore, an investment from Spain that reached 190 million euros in one month, so that jobs would not be destroyed. And, therefore, that resistance plan, also contributing to the ERTE, depends on the Social Dialogue Bureau. It is therefore not a question of unilateral will, either of the Government of Spain, of the Government of Euskadi or of any institution. Here it has to be remembered by the social partners, the business players, and also by the government, and come to an agreement if they consider it necessary to extend these ERTE until the period of April, when the state of alarm ends. The Socialists will never oppose such an agreement. If these needs are detected...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u23	Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u24	... and these measures are put in place, he will never, ever, hear the Basque Socialists against it, as has happened with the People's Party on other occasions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u26	Yes, thank you, Madam. Mrs Larrea, you've taken this issue seriously, eh! So much so that it has turned this rostrum, into the first part of its intervention, into... I don't know how to define it, in a pocket talk, in a sister-in-law comment, in this case, about activity licenses and so on. Anyway, I don't know if you have, for all that the negotiators are, that ability to teach us to give ourselves to others. But, finally, you catch me today in a good mood or... especially peaceful, and I'm not going to get into all that barbarity you've been able to say about the batzokis. I would have liked to... I would have liked to hear her talk about other things. I think we live in times of crisis; we live in times of pandemic... And I would have liked to have heard her contribute; for example, explain to us what the People's Party is doing where it rules. Out of this community, of course. Moreover, yesterday I was tempted to see what measures you had begun to take already in Navarredas and in Baños de Ebro. But, as I'm telling you, I was... That today I was coming peacefully, I said I'm not going to do anything, just in case. Now I'm sorry I didn't. But, instead, this week I have been following what you do in Andalusia for example. 600 euros, not everyone. Or what are you doing in Galicia, for example, where you have announced losses of between 12-17 million, but there is still no Galician who has found them in the official newsletter... We've already talked to you here, haven't we? The decision is taken, it is announced the next day, and at three days, it is already in force: aid of between 3,000 and 4,000 euros, together with all the above, and in some cases, the above extended as well. Well, Mrs. Corcuera has explained it enough, and I'm not going to repeat myself. Galicia, 600 and waiting. Sorry, Andalusia 600, and Galicia waiting. Anyway, advice I sell that I don't have! We know, we know, we know that the size to close is painful, and that it has economic consequences. They decided to postpone everything they could in the LABI council when they were occupied in various other places. But it was essential that this measure should be taken, in order to avoid social transmission. And here the problem is not that of the sector, it's personal responsibility, just as now it's the responsibility of helping the sector to relax or the sector. Let's not worry about people either out or out or in a sector or something else, it starts from each of us, and we need to reduce our relationships and keep the bubbles. We admit, once more, that the sector has made a great effort to make bars and restaurants safe, and, as Mr. Casanova has said, in the course of suffering so many changes, one by one, but life is such. The Pandemia has gone straight into life. So, the technical-scientific committee – no longer, I suppose, not even the LABI – understood that it was necessary to take these measures, because the evolution of the contagions was growing, serious and very worrying at the time. Other communities, as I have said, had already acted in a similar way. A tough but necessary step has been taken to prevent a collapse in the health system and to ensure public health. That has been, and remains, the central criterion and priority of this Government. The decisions taken by LABI are always based on the criteria of the health authorities, taking into account the analysis of the incidence in the last 14 days of the reproductive index and the percentage of occupancy of ICU beds. Then, there was no other remedy than to take this harsh measure contained in the Bizi Berri Plan. From there, economic measures are taken. Analysis of the consequences of decisions, proximity and listening and dialogue with the sector. I do not know why you insist that there is no dialogue with the sector; some suppose that because you have already identified the sector with those who are more proclivous to you and forget who the representatives have been so far, and others, because it is good for you. But, in any case, each and every measure has been taken with the knowledge and participation of the sector. Moreover, you would be surprised if you knew, in any case, what proposals have been made by the Government and how the matter ended after hearing the sector. Nik, ore de la hilabete, honako hau esan nuen rouna honetan betan: "It is time for structural measures, to support the competitiveness of companies and to support the maintenance of business structures. Steps must be taken to promote the liquidity of businesses and, above all, to avoid the destruction of employment. We must build consumer confidence and activate local consumption. The commitment must start with oneself, with one; it must be individual and then social. And from the institutional point of view, decisions must be taken on taxation, on taxes, on lost in-depth aid, on approved credits that will enable the sector to survive, on rents, on leases, on administrative procedures, etc., etc., but from the realism and capacity of each administration and with the sole objective of trying to accompany the sector in a loyal way". Eta gaur esan dezakegu, egora larri honen aurrean, hitza bete dugula eta betetzen jarraituko dugula. Gaur ez dago, Euskadiren zati Honetan, autonomy-erkidego Honetan, ostalaritzaren aldeko neurriak hartu ez dituen edo hartzeko bidean dagoen udal bat ere ez. Agian zuenak bai, ez dakit; they said ez doubt begiratu. Even the troubles, about their jurisdictions, tend to contribute, and give their due steps. And then, just like I said, he kept his word. Ever since then, steps have taken place. What do you mean, "you haven't done much?" Well, hey, whatever you can. Anything you can do! Nik, badakizue, tribuna honetara jaisten naizenean, beti eskatzen doubt the exacta egia, and society must be told the truth; neither this government nor any other, none of the environment, is going to get the cost of the pandemic to be zero. Firstly, because of the cost in lives that we have already had, and secondly because of the cost that the pandemic produces not only in this but in all economic sectors. And there is no government capable of covering 100% of all needs, which seems to be what you bring here in different ways today. Pretentions are not infinite, and we must make decisions in certain situations. Previous... A month ago, we talked about it. Money is not unlimited, and things must be put into such a position, and at the present moment health will have the chief priority, after education, and from thence all others. But it is evident that this government cannot fill all the gaps caused by crisis in this sector, or in other sectors, as it is in any other part of the world. And we believe it is time for us to act together, that in the presence of so extraordinary a situation it is a privilege to unite and cooperate for the public good. We must have the same goal: to secure public health and the welfare of all men. Atzo, Legebiltzarreko beste lagun bati hitz batzuk entzun nizkion, eta, berarekin bat natorrenez, ba, nireak izango balira bezala hartzen ditut, éta zuei esango diskizuet. We always say what time it will be to assess whether the measures that have been taken have been efficient and whether they have been taken with the most appropriate contrasting decisions. We understand, in this case, from the parliamentary group Euzko Abertzaleak, which is the time to tie the shoulder; we have to be constructive in our proposals and, above all – bukatzera noa, legebiltzarburu anderea –... and, above all, convinced that, indeed, at this moment of great emergency crisis it is when the social pact is put to the test. That is, individuals gathered in a society that creates institutions, to see if these institutions are really useful in responding to the challenges, in this case, health, economic and social, posed by the pandemic. That is why we believe that we must have an attitude of solving problems, of seeking solutions, and for that, for example, there is the question of budgets. If at some point the responsibility of political formations in providing instruments to public administrations is a matter of appeal...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u27	Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u28	... so that they face – bukatzera noa –, so that they face complicated situations, it is in this one. In this sense, we understand that, although certain shortcomings can be detected, it is time to tie the shoulder and contribute, seeking budgets for Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u29	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. The next round of the band that hasn't run any corrections, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u30	Good morning. Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Since Vox, we have worked, constantly and laboriously, to present a remarkable battery of proposals in favor of the hoteliers and against the abuse of closure, from one day to another and without warning, a situation that was unmatched and condemned to the ruin of the sector. The hoteliers didn't know they were going to have to close business overnight. We, with the short time that they allow us to speak, because of the health cord to which they have subjected us, cannot abound in the measures as much as the rest of the groups. The Auzolan Spirit On the subject, we recognize the proposal of the PP and Citizens Group as correct, although we believe that the extension of the ERTE only until April is insufficient. We must leave the door open until the summer, so that they can recover and have room for manoeuvre. What has happened this year will change everyone's habits, and it will cost to recover pre-COVID-19 billing levels. It is our responsibility to protect the sector until it returns to normality, to real normality, and not to that disguised one that they have called "new normality". We also believe that, regardless of the euro earmarked for resistance, the figure of 200 million is, of course, much closer to the business needs than the proposal made by the Government, which, moreover, are raising it as hoteliers put pressure on the street, forced in a way to beg the executive. However, we are concerned about both resistance and reactivation. We applaud plans like bonds, which will be of great help, but they are not enough. When people change habits it is very difficult to resume the previous path. It is easy to imagine that we must open lines of direct help, so that the locals can adapt with all kinds of tools, such as methacrylate traps, so that after this public vilificio, where the hotelier of the crisis has been blamed, one can regain confidence. A confidence that must be carried out with a campaign from all fronts and where it is remembered that our bars, shops and restaurants are safe, that going there is not a health risk. We will repeat it as many times as it takes: the person responsible for this major disaster, which is the pandemic crisis, is not only the COVID-19; the politicians in charge have not been able to live up to it, you have not worked to prevent or adapt, you have improvised as a rule, and the result is what we now have: ruin, ruin and more ruin. We will get out of this, I have no doubt, but we will not owe it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u31	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. We'll take the answers turn. Madam Larre, the representative of the popular group of Ciudadans, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u32	Thank you. Mr. Grajales, I'll start with you, because, look, the first thing I'm going to say is that I'm not in the pocket; what I'm going to say is that I'm going to be with the... Can't you hear me? That I'm not a pocket man or a pocket man. I am of being with people and of being at the foot of the street, listening to them and knowing what they want you to ask yourself, what their needs are and what their feeling is. I'm not going to stop doing it, I'm not going to step on the carpet; I'm going to keep listening to it all my life, because it's my way of doing it. Next thing I'm gonna tell you, you're oriented to fake news. But not only that, aid has been opened in Andalusia to 85 sectors, of 1,000 euros. 85 sectors. Not just the hospitality sector; we are talking about many more sectors. But I'll tell you that in the region of Murcia there are also aid between 3,000 and 10,000 euros, a little more than what has been done here. I will also tell you that the so-called Community of Madrid, which you are talking about, is not going to do... I'm sorry; he didn't mention it; but, well, I'm going to tell him: they've managed to have a [low] Don't talk to me either... Mrs Corcuera told me that from Eudel a notification is sent to the local administrations, so that they can help the hoteliers according to their abilities. Man, thanks to the fact that all the municipalities governed by the People's Party took down that initiative to take away the savings of the local administrations that Sánchez's government had in mind. So, of course, now, thanks to that, here we have the local corporations, the municipalities, who have the resources to help the hospitality sector, as Eudel recommends. Mr Casanova and Mr Hernández, with regard to your amendments, it is true that we too believe that aid must be tailored to each location; it cannot be generalized to all the world. That is why there are the number of workers, and in that we have not entered our motion. But it is true that solutions must be given to the citizens. And you have said it, Mr Casanova: at the moment, I am talking about hospitality; but, in fact, the self-employed have needs, and we have to respond to them, because that is why we are here. And I am occupied by the Basque self-employed in this Parliament. I could start talking about other self-employed people, others... but right now, it's up to the Basque self-employed to me. I think an effort needs to be made to return all these self-employed people who are working, who have paid their taxes and are now in need. And, today, I'm talking about hospitality, about all the hotel rooms. Again I repeat: one cannot exclude one or another here or there; one cannot exclude the party halls or the discotheques, because some seem better or worse to us. We must help the self-employed, the entrepreneurs, who have put everything into play and who are now in need, they and their workers. Because, actually, what is happening is that we are talking about 65,000 people affected by the closure of the hotel in the Basque Country. And I want to say – and I will finish – that it is true that the Basque Government has tried to do... I don't say no, but it's little. And that's what we said on the 13th in the interpellation I made to Mr. Hurtado, and that's what we came to say today. And we have proposed a series of measures that we believe are correct. And that is why I again extend my hand to all of you, so that you can vote in favour of this motion, which we have tabled here today to give solutions. That is why we are here, in this Parliament, to give solutions; today to the hospitality industry, and tomorrow to those who need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u34	Yes, Mrs Larrea, you have reached out to us to vote for your initiative. Man, you present an initiative; we, who are good people, make an amendment; we are willing to negotiate with the People's Party, with which, as you know, we do not get along very well, and there has been no offer of negotiation. The initiative is yours. I appreciate that you're holding our hand, but don't ask me that the way to hold our hand is that we vote for them and that's it; that's very complicated. Moreover, if you tell us that you agree that the measures cannot be taken from... aid cannot be given in any way. We have collected it, because for us that is important. It's not about letting go of public money like this, on the go, now because it is. We think we have to collect these criteria, the number of workers, billing, etc., because the situation of the different businesses is very different. And, therefore, we were also planning to divide the aid into two different lines. Because it is also true that those who are closed by obligation have zero billing, also whatever the type of business. But then there are a lot of small businesses, medium businesses, that are not forced to close, but that are being affected by two types of measures: one, because of the very closure of other businesses, of those of the hotelry, suppliers or everything that moves around the activity that is in the hotelry; but then, also because of the limitations of movement between municipalities or between autonomous communities, right? And, therefore, in these second ones, moreover, it seems to us particularly important to take these criteria into account. Because, moreover, in these sectors – and in that of hospitality specifically – neither the size of the premises – you mention the size of the premises – tells us what the business is like. There are many small or medium-sized locals that are owned by large groups, and I'm not just referring to McDonald's. I think all this has to be taken into account. And for us, of course, this is important. We would have negotiated with any group, with yours and with any other in this House. We know that now there are not enough majorities to overthrow the government's initiative, that I really believe what it says is that there is something to be done that they are already doing, and therefore I think it is not valid. But, well, we appreciate your position, but that's not holding hands. To hold hands would have been that we could have reached an agreement. That is why we are going to vote for our initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u35	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u36	Good morning again. A little more than a month ago, I had been asking the councillor from this very attril: what if the closure of the hotel is decreed tomorrow?, as was being decreed at the time in Catalonia, prior to the closure being decreed here. We have already seen what has happened; the closing of one day for another was decreed: full chambers, added losses, and rushing and running, improvising a posteriori I now ask you, gentlemen of the groups that support the Government: what if the restrictions on the normal activity of the hotelry are prolonged for months after you are allowed to reopen your establishments? What if the reopening is with restrictions that prevent these businesses from surviving through their mere professional functioning? What's going on? Well, I already know what is going to happen, that if sufficient aid is not established for the duration of these restrictions, the accumulated losses in those months to which they have been accumulating for almost a year will be added and that therefore another round of business will fall. And I ask you now: what if we're going to face a few months with restrictions on hospitality activity? People working in the hospitality sector have been forced, in recent months, to suffer a real Russian, economic and emotional mountain. I have previously read the list of changes to the applicable regulations and restrictions. This means that these people every fair time have had to re-adapt the conditions of their business; they have had to decide the number of staff they are able to support; they have had to decide what type of support they ask for, what type of credits they ask for... Do you know the emotional burden that this entails, in addition to economic failure? And then they have to put up with important political leaders in this country going out to the press to say, "I am having a bad time, I have 100 bars closed." That's humiliating. That's humiliating! That's a lack of hurtful empathy. And I'm telling you, Mr. Counselor, you were complaining when I told you not to... I blamed him for not doing anything. They've done very little, they've done very little. They have done something more, they have done more in the last 15 days than in the previous 8 months, but yet it remains insufficient, and we are proving it to you. We are bringing you data; the sector is giving it to you. I do not deny that there is dialogue; others will deny it... I do not deny that there is a dialogue; I know that there is a relationship and that there is a dialogue and that there is a transmission of ideas, because I too am developing dialogue with the associations once again that have emerged from this crisis and with the federations previously established, and from that dialogue..., I know that you are in contact, but that is not the dialogue that the hospitality sector needs. There is already a formal structure, a hosting table, in which representatives of the hosting sector, and representatives of all institutions. This table must be gathered together, and that is to be examined, because the problem is complex, has several vertices, and here we plan a sort of help, which is a fixed quantity, and that's all. But the problem is much wider. The autonomists must face a great deal of expense: the rents, the fixed expenses, the rates, and the different taxes, the social settlements. All this must be considered in a systematic manner, and a solution must be made to be proposed in regard to each question. And we've discussed the councils, but the councils aren't represented in this interinstial committee that you've created, and here are the councils of the capitals. And this is the institution which you have invented, or an organ, which you are now in the government, to leave Eudel aside, because there are others in the city, and there are only you in the capitals. That's your will to interview! And we don't plan here to rethink it for 100 percent; we've made a sharp proposal and set some quantities with the nature of looking back and looking forward. And these quantities are so far from 100 percent of wheat. And we agree that these people will accept a little more, accept a higher cost, because their sector has been especially damaged. But being a little more cost can't have all the cost left on their shoulders. The social agreement has been here mentioned, and I have brought the concept of this subject when we have spoken of it, the social agreement, and according to this social agreement we decide not to leave any one behind us. How many times have we spoken of that phrase? "This government will leave no one behind," "this half will leave no one behind"; for it supposes that, in the present situation of hosting, to lend aid, to live with sufficient assistance, not to secure the same incomes, but to live with dignity, and carry their affairs forward. That's what we're asking, and we'll continue to ask until we get it, because we've seen it through streets and interlocutions, that the sector still says it's not enough to do what's done and much more to do. We'll keep asking you to help us until we get that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u37	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u38	Yes, thank you, President. Mrs Larrea, you were talking about the disinterest of the Government of Spain and the disinterest of the Basque Government. Look, no one is taking a stand here: the Basque Government has faced the issue of the health crisis, the economic crisis and the social crisis from the very first moment it occurred. It has also done so with aid; they are well present, and I have commented on them before and also in the debate on 29 October. The first is health and, therefore, there is also a resistance plan, proposed by the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption of the Basque Government, to try to alleviate the health measures that are causing restrictions on the economic activity of some sectors, in this case that of hospitality. And that resistance plan of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs has tried to coordinate – and is trying to coordinate – the Inter-institutional Bureau, with all the measures of the institutions: the Government of Spain, the Basque Government, municipalities and outlaws, which every day take the various measures and actions, in order, as I say, to try to alleviate the consequences of the measures and restrictions that are put in the health field in the fight against COVID, and these measures go every day. I have commented: the outlaws before yesterday, the measures that were being implemented by Eudel. And I think that someone, the one who turned off the FEMP theme... I have not talked about the FEMP, I am talking about Eudel, I am talking about the Economic Concert, which has allowed the biggest indebtedness for the Basque municipalities, and that has nothing to do with either the FEMP or the suspension of fiscal rules; let's see if we're going to focus and find out a little bit about the issues. I repeat, therefore, a resistance plan with EUR 30 million in the last few days for direct aid from the Basque Government, which is also aid which is intended to be rapid and which is also intended to be agile; it is therefore bureaucracy which prevents such aid from arriving; for the time being, EUR 45 million is intended exclusively for the hospitality sector. Look, I have here what help is being given to certain autonomous communities. You were talking about Galicia; well, here you put "generic measures for sectors affected by the covid" [Orri bat irakurtzen du] So, finally, we're talking about 30 million, so let's not make so much of what other autonomous communities are doing. I am concerned about what is happening here, and I believe that the Basque Government is responding to the needs of the hospitality industry, which is certainly insufficient for a sector that is having a bad time. We are aware of this; the first people we are aware of are the ones who are dedicated to the subject of tourism, commerce and hospitality, but this does not mean that nothing is being done. I am glad that Mr. Casanova is already turning, because at first it was that the government had done absolutely nothing, there was no measure put in place, there was no resistance plan... Well, now it's moving forward; something we're walking, and even within a few months we don't have to talk about this subject, with which I'd be happy. Government of Spain. He said before: between the extension of the ERTE, the flexibility of social security contributions and, in addition, on the ICO issue, the extension of the deadlines for deficit and depreciation, in total aid for 8% of Spain's gross domestic product. Hey, that's no minute sin. The subject of the sector's dialogue, and I think that... At first, I had thought I had misunderstood you, but I see that not because of what Mr Hernández was also commenting on you. Hey, talk to the sector from day one, from day one! And, moreover, it has been published in the positive assessment made by the sector of the dialogue that it has with the department and with the Councillor of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption; therefore, I do not know what you are trying to do. What's more, from that conversation and receiving the subject of concern about the issue of rents, I'm... and I can assure you that the Spanish Government and even the Councilman himself are working on trying to find a formula for the question of rents, and I hope that, in a short time, it can be implemented or at least implemented. And the extension of the ERTE does not depend on the Government of Spain; it depends on the agreement of the Social Dialogue Bureau. So, let's not deflect shots! Such an agreement cannot be imposed; it cannot be achieved by the imposition of one of the parties. Here either we all agree or there will be no prolongation of the ERTE, and it is more, first we will have to see if it is necessary and that extension of the ERTE is necessary. Look, Mrs Larrea, in the face of your diagnosis of lack of dialogue, the advisor's commitment and the department's commitment to maintain, continue to maintain, that relationship with the sector. The effort of this department does not end here: the measures will continue to be implemented and there will be new measures, Mr Casanova, what do you not understand that the scenarios are changing and that, therefore, new measures are being implemented? From 29 October to here we have a new plan, of 30 million euros, new measures of the parliaments, new measures of the municipalities. Don't make us believe that we're at a watertight moment, in a fixed photo, and that nobody's moving here. Of course we move; I don't know what you don't understand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u39	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u40	I'm done. Yeah, I'm done with the president. Look, less frivolity in the forms of your speech, and I would ask you for more responsibility and rigour in the approaches you make, because you have no endorsement behind the formula you had proposed; there is no report that supports why 200 million euros and no more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u42	Yes, thank you, Mr. congressman, very briefly. We are constantly called upon to listen to society. Look, Mrs Larrea, we listen to society, and society listens to us. For not going out, simply in the territory, look, I here have ten antennas in Gipuzkoa, which explain to me what happens in their cities, in their villages, in what... We have a lot of mayors and mayors, we have juntas, we have juntas, we have hundreds and peak batzokis I don't know how you got here... I don't know if you've put in a 10 because the PP's are like that, Groucho Marx and this, right? We don't know how it got here. To me of this debate, the truth, as we had before, is that it is also, I have very few clear things left: one that you are very concerned about..., that is not in the pocket and that you are very concerned about discos. I'm in the pocket. The other day, Mr. Telleria said that he had been made a Health Spokesman, because he used health a lot, and I was probably made a Hotel Spokesman... I was worried and said, "It'll be because I use a lot," so, too. But, among other things, precisely because of this dialogue or because of this area of closeness... in the closest in life, to be able to test, capture, with friends how the subject is. And luckily for this country, it's not as you say. It's very bad. The situation is very complicated, it is very complicated in hospitality. It is perhaps more complicated in everything that is around the hospitality. Because the hotel store is getting help. The hotelry has the credits; the hotelry has the ERTE. Much worse are those who live around, the producers... are the distributors. Maybe this whole world is worse. Aeronautics is fatal because, despite Macron's help, only 15,000 people have gone to the street in Blagnac, and it turns out that we work there. It's all wrong. And I unfortunately insist that neither this government, nor Angela Merkel's, nor Macron's, nor Sanchez's, nor any other government, will be able to go through the crisis. We'll put patches on, better or worse. I've made one thing clear to me. It seems that instead of aid of between 3,000 and 4,000 euros to the hospitality – which is what we were talking about today – completely lost, it must be better to open it to 85 – not sectors – categories, and to give 1,000 to each one. It's more spread now. He says, "No, this is where the hospitality goes down." Fuck, then, in Andalusia with 600, they're going to throw parties apparently. But, as I used to say, advice I sell, which I don't have. I do not know if I have told you that we will vote against your motion, in spite of that appeal that made us, because, in the end, we do not attend to fake news. And, as I told you before, we're still waiting for those 12 to 17 million for losses, and for those, they actually materialize. They are materialized in the bulletin itself. It is also curious, isn't it?, because here we have to help everyone and more, and in Galicia we solve everything by helping for improvements to those who remain open; of those who have closed, we have no news. In any case, as I say to you, not only do we read the bulletins there, but, reading your motion, we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u43	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. My missile shouldn't say a word. The discussion is over and we'll go to the vote. First, we vote for the original text of Mrs. Larre Laso's motion. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters 7; the contrary, 41; the abstations are 27; the whites are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u44	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote together for the full correction of the Podemos-IU. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary, 41; the abscesssion, 7; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u45	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary, 41; the abscesssion, 7; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u46	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 34; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u47	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Mutation, introduced by Elisabet González Rodríguz together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU team, in order to prevent violence in the context of COVID-19 from taking advantage of the fine measures taken to guard and protect. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. González has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u48	Thank you, Madam, for changing the point. Good day again to those who sit at table, [And] to those who are in law. Nago urdes... The truth is, onartzen dut. Nahiz eta ematen two, ez nago obituta rostrum honorara igotzen, eta, well, gaur ez had to edozertaz hitz egingo. Gaur hitz egingo diszuet gehien axola zaidan gaietako batez, eta ardura handia supposatzen du niretzat. And I repeat, because I'm nervous, really, and I can't deny it. And besides, even if it seems so, I'm not a person who's used to going up to this atrium to talk about anything. And what I want to talk to you about today is one of the things I give the most importance and the things I care about the most, right?, and I feel a lot of responsibility. Una de cada dos mujeres ha sufferdo violencia a lo lago de su videna. One fifth for the last 12 months. 50% of the attackers are less than 50 years old. Eight years and nine months is the average we need to count. 900 and the fig to break the restraining order. Only in 2019. Three out of ten women who have been murdered had previously reported it. Only three out of ten. 30 women killed in the last 10 years in Euskadi, 30! That's quite a data stream. I'm getting chicken skin, and I know that you, that most of you, too, hey! In fact, some of you have laid skin on it and body on it. And you've touched us with your courage. Thank you, Maialen! Machism is deeply violent, because it is the most effective mechanism of patriarchy. Izan ere, patriarchal gure gizartean sakon errortuta dagoen system politico, estruktural eta systemikoa da. That's why macho violence is not just the blows; that's just the tip.Macho violence is that we women work seven hours more a week than men and cover 25% less, and that routine work at home is just us, and playful people, them. Haiek bonbillak aldatzen dituzte, éta guk ipurdiak garbitzen ditugu. This data is from an investigation that was funded by Emakunde, Euskal demokrazia patriarchkala. Together, Podemos-Ureauerda Unida brought a motive to penetrate into the charming opposites of machista violence. And I will be honest with you: I know that you also know that we are not going to end the violence with this motion, nor with feminist public policies, however effective they are. We are not going to do this because patriarchy, as I told you before, is a very well-educated system, which supports, among other things, impunity and complicity. But, well, we're not going to end it, but we can't be either accomplices or fuel that impunity. We're going to live on it. Eta horretan bizitza doakigulako. Violence against women has always been heartbreaking; but now, in addition, with a pandemic, it is gaining strength and is manifesting itself in many other ways. It is more invisible and, moreover, we tend to forget about it, with the excuse of the health emergency. Baina indarkeria matxista osasun publikoko kontua ere bada, giza eskubideen urraketa. In our motion, we propose things of common sense, such as making a report to know what attention has been paid to the Machist violence during the confinement and during the new waves of the COVID. We need a clean photograph to make effective policies. To improve the administrative coordination. Bet for education, as a preventive vaccinator, guarantees that all the feminists of space are still home. And the public funds, without any restriction, to the power and to appeal to the feminist institutions. And lastly, that society should not be an accomplice, and that the desire of being an active agent against the machista of violence should be the means and means of working. I trust, truly, the agreements, but I trust – I believe that I have moved it to you – and I have always trusted that this motion would come forward. That is why I want to value your will too, because you have shown it to me. Because I know that yesterday more than one demonstration was lost by working on this text. And, well, and because I feel that you care about violence against women; well, just like all of them, because the far right cares very little and, besides, they use it as a bold weapon, but, well, I hope someday they change, the truth; I also have hope. And, in the meantime, we do our part, which is to work for the eradication of sexist violence. And one day after 25 November, the agreement of all the democratic forces of our country will send a clear message to Basque citizens, of this real commitment we have to this issue. And we're gonna send that message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u49	Thank you, Mrs. González. Passing over the teams who were running the corrections, the representative of the popular group of Ciudads, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief physician. Well, we're glad that we've made a large deal on this subject in the legislature, and about a serious subject, and, according to Mrs. Gonzále, one of the most serious problems in society. I want to thank you at first, well, because we've all done our best, almost all of us, in this Chamber, to come to this agreement, and particularly what Mrs. Gonzále has done. And then we all knew we had to make a deal on this subject, almost all of us, and in the end we did it. And I think today is good news. And today, the message we send with this agreement to the company of euscal society, I think is to be satisfied. Yesterday was the International Day against Gender Violence. And it is a day marked on the calendar; but, no doubt, every day has to be the days against gender-based violence. And I was saying yesterday in a video, which I also had the opportunity to record, which is a matter for us all, and I am absolutely convinced that this is an issue that concerns us all as a society. And I have to say that, from this group, we have made an effort to reach an agreement, as I think we have all or almost all groups represented in this House. And I think it's good news. And I think that we also owe it to so many Basque women who are suffering, who continue to suffer, this scourge, which, if possible, has been aggravated by the crisis of the coronavirus itself. It should be remembered that this is a violence that is suffered in privacy, in the most intimate space of people and is often suffered in silence. And as Mrs Gonzalez recalled, not all that had to be reported is reported: three out of ten complaints are filed; if we talk about ten situations of gender-based violence, three complaints are filed, according to an Emakunde report. We are faced with one of the major human rights violations. And, as I said, this situation has been aggravated by the crisis of the coronavirus itself. Momentu honetan argi esan dezakegu koronabirusaren krisia dela-eta genero-indarkeria jasotzen duten emakumeen egora txarragoa dela. It's your reality bat yes, age Ganbera honetatik ezin dugu ukatu the reality age moment honetan emakume asko bizitzen ari direen egoera larri hau. I think it's best to know, on the one hand, that the crisis of the coronabirus has the effect on the force of the genus. I believe that it is necessary to strengthen coordination among all institutions. And, on the other hand, we must pursue the exact measures in the future, though we make a course hitherto, it is necessary, even in the future, to establish precise measures. For example, strengthening the services of the direct attention, the reconnaissance of the protocols, the precise program tracking of specific programs in the area of the formation, and the chances that give us new technology. For us, and that is why we amended, although we agreed with them, many of the proposals of the original initiative presented, we did understand important, well, therefore, to reinforce some issues, such as all that has to do with the care services provided to women who suffer a situation of gender violence, the revision of the protocols of action, the development of specific training programmes for staff, and also the possibility of improving channels of communication or exploring the possibilities offered by new technologies in this field, which were either issues or issues that were reflected in the original initiative. But it did seem to us, too, and it has been our contribution, some of our contributions, which have finally been included in the final text, which has to be... This has to do with strengthening programmes to support women victims of gender-based violence in the areas of awareness-raising, prevention, care and protection. And also strengthening that comprehensive care that is already given to women, but that, in that care, apart from being comprehensive, also improves the capacity of public administrations to act, being a more effective and faster action. We also thought it important – and I am also grateful that the people we have negotiated in the different groups this initiative, this agreement – and it is that, well, in the end, we have been able to collect everything that has to do with the educational field, that can continue to design such important programmes in the educational field, in order to continue to educate on values such as equality, tolerance, respect, dignity, autonomy... Undoubtedly, you have bilbid bat egin dugula gizarte honetan emakumeen aurkako bortxakeriari aurre egiteko, baisa oraindik ére bilbidea egin behar dugu elkarrekin. You're the one who's going to kill the akordioa and I'm going to kill the akordioa and take Gehiengo... and she's going to kill her. We believe that we have made a journey in relation to gender-based violence; but certainly, seeing the figures, which were also remembered here, and the situation of many women, there is still a way to go. And, sincerely, for this reason, I again thank almost all the representatives in this House for their efforts to reach this agreement, because I believe it is a step further, without doubt, in the adoption of these measures, or in continuing to take measures from the institutions in order to be able to alleviate this problem which is suffering from society and also to help many women, who – we must not forget – if they are already having a bad time in these situations, their situation has also been aggravated by the crisis of the coronavirus. Then thank you all who have contributed to this agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u51	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u52	Well, good noon to everyone. Together, I wish to thank Madame Isabel Gonzále, at the Podemos-IU, first and then, for all the questions she had brought us into the discussion, and for all those words and deliberations she had left us on the table, and that we share them in a hundred per cent, I can only say. We agree with the necessity of examining, or investigating the machista of violence. Even more so, as you mentioned at this particular moment, when we began to see the effects of COVID-19 of this violence in women who are suffering it, don't you? It was scandalous, though we knew it, that at the time when the deinfination came up, the appeals were to be raised in the highest degree; it is scandalous that we receive daily data, and these two serious and violent attacks in the Basque Country are scandalous even in the last week. And to-day, to try to take a step about it, to try to take a step in science, we had seen this proposition in a very good way from the beginning. I think it's clear that the house is not the safe space we wanted or thought it was for a lot of people. The house is still a space in which the communication of power is renewed between women and men, grown up and children, and in the gravest degrees it still remains a space that is a very violent state of violence. Monique Wittig speaks of the direct heterogic thought, how the world is divided between weak and weak men, strong and weak, and how certain kinds of communication are made about it, and how the families are organized in it. Hence, however, the highest expressions of the machitatic violence, the gravest, the worst, still remain there. We made proposals in general, in order to make the rest consider, on the one hand, such a state of confinement or restrictions as are necessary, in order that the schools of women and of power should be kept open, as far as possible, or the search for formulas, though we know that it is a right belonging to the municipal houses, but that these, in order to consider them as space of primary wisdom, we know that these spaces are salvation for women, and that their consciousness of self-being begins and must needs be their own. And on the other hand, we talked about watch- nets: As a citizen, we have plenty to do, we have to take care of our surroundings, our society, our mutual care, our mutual care. And so, in order to inform the people of an informal campaign, of what we could do, what we could do, and where we could go, we also included that proposition. And, as we often say, in a negotiation, some things must be neglected for the sake of everything or of a whole. And in this sense, I think, as we said, we've all left so many things, but we thought it was essential to open a clear message here. Yesterday I was one of those that I was able to go to the demonstrations, and they reminded us of how there are still economic violences in the house or in the washing machines. They spoke of symbolic violence, of how the street still becomes a space of fear for many women, how they train us into socialization of fear. We were told of the right violence, and also of the murdered women, or of the women of Gaste, Sahara, women, and women, who were now under the necessity of suffering war and torture. and, in this sense, it is a step, a little, a great one; it is no matter what it is, but it is a step which we bring here to-day. On the one hand, because the necessity of strengthening public policies is indispensable, and this clear message is indispensable. And, on the other hand, we have to make sure that we have some political commitment... This wager must also be reflected in the budgets, and I believe that it contains it also by this motive which we bring here; and it requires an alliance. Partnership... sometimes, well, although they do not agree in so many points, yet it is sometimes necessary for them to come to terms of agreement, as in others it will be necessary for discussion to proceed. But today, we've got a full-time plan in front of the machista violence, constantly... the constant counter-messages, because the same machista of violence does not exist, because we have here a clear view of it, that we are able to work in front of it. In the eyes of those who wish to underestimate violence, whatever its origin may be, because we wish to assert that we are going to denounce it. This short but very memorable story came to me: When he woke up, the dinosaur was still there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u54	Yeah. Thank you, President. Since 2003, 1,074 women have been killed, and since 2013, 301 children have been orphaned. By 2020, 41 women had been killed, and 29 boys and girls had been orphaned. The Organic Law of 28 December 2004 on Measures for the Integral Protection against Gender Violence constituted a paradigm shift, which made it possible in our country for the public authorities to recognize a specific and specific type of violence, which is the one against women because of the mere fact of being women, and which involves a violation of human rights. And we must continue to make progress in this direction. Also, and continuing with the marked path, the state pact is a sign of the consensus of all parliamentary groups, then represented in the Congress of Deputies, which was run in 2019 and which continues to aspire to this consensus, because of the obvious need to combat gender-based violence, which continues to be a harsh reality for many women. The State Pact on Gender Violence had to wait until a socialist government arrived to begin its development. Nine months after its adoption, the People's Party had not yet developed virtually any of the 214 measures that had been adopted in September 2017 at the Congress of Deputies. Since then, the push has been evident, despite interruptions due to different electoral calls. Both the Government of Spain and the Basque Government have among their priority objectives feminist policies, including the fight against macho violence. And this translates into the cross-cutting nature of gender equality, in the presence of the gender perspective in the policies promoted by the Spanish Government and the Basque Government. The health emergency we are experiencing in recent months has meant, for thousands of women who suffer violence in our country, a situation of double difficulty: firstly, being confined to their abuser implies an increase in the risk of suffering these physical assaults, and secondly, a continuity in psychological abuse for both the victim and her children, because there is no truce within the confinement and also a greater difficulty in reporting, so the risk increases. This is why numerous information campaigns have been carried out from both the Government of Spain and the Basque Government, adapting services to care for gender victims and providing new resource tools to make warning in situations of danger in confinement easier. It has been found that, during the pandemic, the use of telematics and telephone has increased during this period, to the detriment of complaints that have decreased due to the obvious difficulty, despite the fact that all services related to gender-based violence have been declared essential. The number of complaints increased with the completion of the confinement, and there has also been a significant increase in marital separations. Over the course of this year, the Government of Spain has legislated and will continue to do so, developing legislatively the State Pact, in order to bring it into line with the Istanbul Convention. It began in the summer of 2018, with the decree of urgent measures and the reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, which allows for greater and better training of legal operators, and then has continued to do so with laws such as LOMLOE, the new law of education adopted this November, because it is evident that, without equal education, without co-education, there is no possible prevention of gender-based violence. And this new legal text adopts a gender equality approach and the prevention of violence against women at all stages of education, thus fulfilling the educational proposals included in the State Pact. After the scourge of COVID-19, what is predictable is that many women will need special attention from governments and, within this new situation, being able to have minimum living income will also be a great help for many women. It is important to have resources. To this end, in addition to the items included in the general budgets of our Autonomous Community, will be the funds coming from the State Pact, which will be added to the own resources of each autonomous community and whose distribution is about to be realized and agreed with them. The Basque Socialists believe that neither before nor now should resources be reduced by any administration within the framework of competences dedicated to the fight for the elimination of gender-based violence, because it is the life of many people. For this reason, for the future budgets in our Autonomous Community, the appropriations intended precisely for this purpose will be increased. No Government should cut resources for this struggle. Today, we have made an effort to reach this agreement by the different... practically all the parliamentary groups in this House, except Vox. And I believe that this consensus and the shaping of this consensus are important after the effort that has been made, because, as I have also said in my speech, in the area of combating gender-based violence, I believe that those consensuses are fundamental. And that compromise amendment contains the points that were taken up within the amendment... of the original proposal, with some change, because the original proposal referred to a study. But it is important to note that, within this year, Emakunde carried out a study between March and May, and now it is proceeding – and going to proceed – to contrast with associations of women victims of gender violence, to see the current situation, once the entire confinement has been completed, and then, with those conclusions, to continue to make progress, including it in a number of other issues, such as those that are reflected in the transactional amendment itself. That is why, in the compromise amendment, we are talking about that report, and after the use of those conclusions to make further progress. And that's much more real... all the work done throughout this year, and the use, in addition, of that work to further advance in the future. It also referred, in the original amendment, to the need to increase these public funds. Well, that commitment is also reflected in the compromise amendment itself; but, moreover, it is the line, as I have indicated, that is being followed in the general budgets of this Autonomous Community itself, as it could not otherwise be. And then this compromise amendment is much broader, because it has been gathering input from the different groups on the initial amendment, so I believe that the result that we have worked among almost all the parliamentary groups in this House, for it has been embodied there; it is important and it is a road, and it marks the way forward too, and it also covers all the work that has been done – and is also being done – in the fight against gender-based violence. For my part, of course, I would like to thank this effort to achieve this consensus too, because it is the way forward, because we cannot take steps back in the fight against gender-based violence. And that consensus isolates speeches that can distract us from the right path. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u55	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Mrs. Arrivalga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, all of you, chief physician. From 1981, the Latin America celebrates the day against November 25; the feminists of the district, with one of the highest rates of violence against woman, created this date in honour of Minerva, Patria, and María Teresa Mirabal Dominica, in November 25, 1960, in honour of the three sisters who had been murdered by the order of Leónidas Trujillo, by order of the dictator. A few years later, in the year 1999, the United Nations Organization agreed to the date of the proclamation, and appointed the 25th of November to be an international day in the impalpancy of the Woman, in honor of the Mirabal sisters. These three sisters were called "three butterflies," and offered several poems. And, you know, inspired by the same family, I'd like to read a bit of a poem to myself. Zera gave zati honetan: "They lost their lives by order of a caudillo, who his will imposed; he was Rafael Trujillo. He fell in love with one, and being unrequited, he poured out all his fury, because he felt offended." Bada, hemen gaude, "I killed her because she was mine or I killed her because she didn't want to be mine", beats zein beaste ettenbean, gurpil berberean bueltaka, gure munduaren histoiren zehar. For violence, yes, has a genus, and I do not say this, and it is based on this plenitude of equality. And to those who deny this, this message must be clear: The ascetic violence is a global and multiform evil, in any society in the world, which has destructive effects: Sequestion, sexual violence, economic, psychological, harassing, high-feeding of the genitals, the most serious watering of human rights, and so forth. And it affects 70% of the women around the world. Mayalen, thank you! And a big hug. You were brave, very brave. So it was yesterday. But today it is. To-morrow it must be; it must be the day after tomorrow. This day is 365 days. Yesterday, we were in the street, as a person, making our claim. I am here today as a representative of a organization and political party, making the same proclamations, at least like them. Again, I want to confirm that building a society without violence against women is a priority for the Jelts of the Eukian Party, the Eunctors for the team, and also for the fun of it. And of all the institutions of eupscal, I dare say, and of the greatest part of the political sects and of the eupscal society. And once more we wish to express a firm reproach against all the expressions of machista violence. It's up to us. It's up to us to make the change of the law of equality disappear. It is also in our power to encourage a popular authority, to encourage a popular authority for equality. And how can we do this? It's something to do on the crew. In the neighborhood, as the president says. And as we have done today by various groups, the will has been voluntary; it is very important. Today there has been will, and it is really gratitude. We need to push the concert between the organizations. It must also be an indirect connexion between our guideline, association of different associations, and operatings, that is absolutely necessary. We have to bet on it. And this bet on... or, either by means of this or this, we have succeeded in obtaining the middle course of the day. We have tried to establish new necessity in this medium, and to give it an answer. I'm not going to prolong the content of the middle course, because you've already explained the rest of us. But it's important to get a couple of messages to me: in the presence of a woman's violence, there's a number of levels of appeal, and the councils, the forum and the sleighs of the Eusko are involved, and they have different jurisdictions. Many means and services have been set up in execution against women, from all of these institutions, which have been independently adapted to the critical state of health, and have been independently re-viewed, and which must be because these actions have been continually updated and updated. But it's justice to say that the euscal system in which the victim of the machista of violence was properly answered during those months when the wave was first, for the unknown state we lived. And it was not easy, and it is not easy to continue easy, but in the difficulty of this situation, which has never existed in the rest of the world and in the rest of the world, I believe it is of justice to say that it is important to confirm the importance of being fixed by our structures and services in this day. I'm sure the engagement is strong in this battle of illegal violence. I'm not giving the numbers, they've already been given. But, well, it's a fact, because resources are important. It's not all, but it's important. And I'd like to highlight that 30% of the budgets in 2021 is planned, and it's very important and it's gonna be very helpful. So today we go forward. As Mrs. González said, we're not going to avoid violence today, are we? For accepting this half-way. But it's a step forward because we don't have to go back because we have to move forward. And I'd like to send a message to society, wouldn't I? Let him show publicly that he is guilty of violence against women, and that he is protected by a man who suffers violence, always respecting health protocols. Yeah, we think that's very important. That vision is very important. And, moreover, I am grateful to all the professionals who are engaged in handing with the victims of women from various stations and services, especially those who have survived violence and have made public testimony, because they contribute much to other women. The time, therefore, to say this, to thank the delegate Podemos, who, thanks to the presciousness of his presence, presented himself to Mrs. González. Thank you very much; you have insisted, and we have received this treatment, because it was necessary to make such a great deal, as I believe, of justice. And above all, to make a clear message from this legislature, is it not? What I said at first: No, no, no, no. or, contrary to the negative of the conditions, to raise a new one high from this legislature, saying that violence, as I said before, has a genus, and that we ought to make measures for it. And thank you, too, on the other side... We had to leave them on a second line to get to this agreement, because it is important, or because it was because it was important, that we should be able to get this out of the way today. That's all, thank you all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. The next round of the band that hasn't run any corrections, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u58	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I will stick to the title of the initiative in this case, which is "policies to strengthen prevention, care and protection against male violence in the context of COVID-19". Having said that, this initiative is the perfect example of how ideology – the gender ideology, in this case – absolutely contaminates the perception of one problem and takes away the focus of another important one. There is no doubt – I am referring to the justification of the motion – that, in the crisis we are in, the most vulnerable groups are the ones who suffer the most, are the ones who have the least chance of defending themselves in the face of a crisis and are unable to give an answer to the problems that are urgent to them. At this point you include women, in general, as those who suffer the most from the COVID-19; you talk about age and collective ranks, and you always point out "and the woman is the one who suffers the most". For the sake of rigor, it must be said that this is not absolutely the case. Gender ideology blinds them. In the case of COVID-19, there is a gender gap, but against men, who die much more than women. And that's despite the fact that we're majority in the senior rank. But let us set an example, without offending, of how this ideology blinds you; you say "women are the ones who suffer the most from these crises", and with this you total women as if they were a homogeneous whole. And that is the essence of our position against the issues of gender ideology. Women are not a homogeneous whole; there is no sex struggle dialectic. Is it comparable, for example, the situation of Queen Sofia, Esperanza Aguirre, Irene Montero, Corinna, with that of Luisa, the baker of my neighborhood, that of Maite, a friend who is a housewife and fights every month to reach the end of the month, or that of Josune, a acquaintance who has suffered ill-treatment and is in a very complicated situation? The answer is clear: it is not the same. Mrs. Leixuri, violence has no sex. I also want a society without violence; I assure you, and you know it well because we have commented on it, but I want a society without any kind of violence, either against women or against men or against boys, in this case girls and boys, or against homosexuals... I believe that the right and right is to create a society in which there is no violence of any kind. Because, as I have repeated on very usual occasions in this House, I am the first to condemn gender-based violence, and I say it with a very big mouth, I condemn it, but also the rest of the violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u59	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the answers, Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u60	Well, thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Thank you very much. Mrs. Sánchez, thank you. Mrs Garrido, thank you. The motion will go on, and I'm sure we'll make more deals from now on. Because we've completed our feminist position here for the agreement, because we're gonna deal with it. Some slogans that we heard yesterday in the streets and that have managed to be heard here and to be heard through these microphones: "Indarkeria systemare ispilu". "Let's defend ourselves." "Normaltasunak hiltzen gaitu." "Indarkeria matxistaren aurrean, antolatu eta borrokatu." "Indarkeria matxistaren aurrean, zerbitzu publikoak defendu". "Neighborhood confined, here are your sisters." "We want to be alive, we want to be free." And I'm going to read a poem, too. Because poetry is also demand and poetry is also political. It's from an author named Susan. Hawthorne - No, no, no, "She asks him: How do you protect yourself from rape? He keeps quiet for a while. He says: I avoid going to jail. She asks again: Do you want to know what I have done or what I have avoided doing? He keeps quiet again; then, he asserts with his head. She says, "I don't talk to strangers; I don't go out alone at night, or if I do, I have my keys ready; I wear my running shoes; I look like I know where I'm going, even if I don't know...". In conclusion, we'll continue our work against the machista of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u61	Thank you, Mrs. González. Lady Garrido, Mrs. Houseland, to Leixus... We'll vote the middle-line corrections together, the Podemos-IU, the Basque Sociists, the EH and the Eternians have signed the media. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 74; the opposites are 1. white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u62	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The Moment, the Adania Martíne, introduced as members of the Misto team, about the measures taken to stop the progress of the Euskín. Discipline and final resolution. Your turn, Madam Martini, is to present and defend the engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u63	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are bringing to this House a claim that we have been making for many weeks. We bring a motion for greater transparency in the management of the current pandemic, which has changed our lives and which forces us to look to the future with fear and uncertainty. The only objective of the initiative we are proposing today is to know – to know us and that citizens know – what is being discussed and what is the criterion that prevails when making decisions that affect citizens in general, self-employed, entrepreneurs, professionals of a very diverse nature, older residents, children, adolescents and young people, and everyone. Sharing the need for a particular measure is the best guarantee that it will be fulfilled, knowing why you are asked to do so or what behavior, understanding what is intended with it, accepting it as appropriate and fulfilling it. This is the best way to do it, no doubt, but there are others: to impose without explaining, to demand accession with a threat of fine; in the long run the result is always worse. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have heard public officials of all kinds and conditions refer to expert reports as endorsement of their decisions; but, when such experts really existed, we found that their positions were multiple, some coincident, others approximate, many of them absolutely opposed. Hence, the messages that citizens have received have been contradictory, that they have amplified uncertainty, thanks to the very contradictions of these experts and also thanks to the fact that each leader has made the interpretation he has wanted, he has relied on a criterion that he has considered useful at every moment and has given priority to some interests rather than others. And that being the case, many of us wonder which of these views is the basis of one or other decision: first, the Government of Spain; then, the Basque Government. Decisions all of them have a huge impact on citizenship, on our economic and social model. We have repeatedly asked the Basque Health Adviser, Mrs Sagardui, for the reports with which LABI has worked, knowing that not all of them were coincident, that the solutions put forward by health professionals or economic management experts are rarely similar. We want to know the reports and we want to know what criteria have been used to take account of one another and to rule out another, what the LABI group of people has valued and why it has decided to adopt such a measure. Only in this way will we be able to eradicate that image of improvisation that has in many moments left the management of the pandemic, that kind of competition between governments to see which was more restrictive or which was more permissive. I trust that this motion will be approved by the groups, which have repeatedly raised an identical request to the Government: We can, People's Party, surely also PSOE in those communities where it does not govern. We've been talking about transparency for a long time. The time has come to vote for transparency, to bet on transparency. Not having access to such reports, not knowing what is discussed in the LABI, not knowing each other's positions and the debates within them, is called opacity. It is also the case that the maximum responsibility for decisions refuses to be explained in this House. But, on that matter, we'll talk another time. Transparency in the interests of greater credibility. Certainty for a citizen who deserves to be considered and who rejects the unexplained imposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u64	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over the teams who were running the corrections, the representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadus, Mr. Barrio, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u65	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, Mrs Martínez, the People-Citizens Group believes that it is good that the agreements of the administrative bodies and the subsidiary bodies, the advisory bodies, are public and that the foundations of their deliberations, of those bodies, are also known and analysed. And you, too, have a right to it. I don't know why you haven't tried a documented request for information on this issue. Perhaps it would have been more effective than this motion-initiative, in relation to the rights that you have legally guaranteed as a parliamentarian. You have the right to information as a Member of Parliament and to make proper use of it, and the laws, regulations, guarantee and protect it. Even if someone does not access it, it protects it in a greater way. I understand that you must... understand my group that there must be absolute transparency in what is decided in the Basque Civil Protection Plan, in the LABI; there must be absolute transparency, and that you must account for the deliberations. The agreements must be accounted for, but we must also talk about how these agreements, these decisions, are reached. That's clear. I share with you the concern about the content of these technical reports, I share the concern; what is being talked about, what is being put on the table. Since, Mrs Martínez, the precedent in this House is nothing good. As you all know, the Advisory Council on Infectious Diseases, which met or had to meet, which was formed earlier and which had to have worked in the first wave of the pandemic, did not work, did not report, did not meet... Everything was done by a political committee. It is quite clear that that was the case, and we all saw that and we were able to see that all the groups that we were in the Permanent Chamber at that time. Now, well, it seems that somehow something has changed. It seems that technical experts, who play their professional or scientific prestige, participate in the deliberations, in the discussions at LABI. And we, of course, want, first of all, to protect and preserve these technicians and their scientific, action, information decision-making, opinion-making capacity; but also to know the basis, the basis, what these technicians report, these scientists report and support political decisions. That's clear. That is why I do not know whether to transfer to society the debates of those bodies, the purely debates of those bodies, or the counter-reporting, is the most appropriate thing, or whether it is best to know the definitive basis of the agreements, the definitive basis, the definitive basis of the decisions. That is why our amendment, which coincides with the spirit of your initiative, is in favour of explaining in this Parliament also technical decisions or scientific decisions, through the technical authorities. And, of course, at that time, at this stage of parliamentary appearances, take advantage of the counsellor's weekly appearances to give information, also technical or scientific, of those people who make up the LABI, when the LABI meets and makes decisions, and to do so precisely in that weekly information in this Parliament, which would be the fundamental thing. I believe that citizens like to hear from technicians, scientists, scientific, medical and pharmaceutical societies, giving their explanations and providing the assessments that underpin the decisions taken for politicians. It makes politicians and political bodies that have to decide more credible. And more in moments... to hear the technicians, the scientists, in moments of so much uncertainty and so much disconcerting, as this one we live in. Every day we hear in the media, on the radio, technicians, scientists... We hear epidemiologists, virologists, vaccine experts, head of health organizations from the technical point of view, head of hospital pharmacies or head of community pharmacies, right? And we answer your expert explanations in relation to many issues: in relation to PCRs, serological tests, in relation to vaccines, in relation to the vaccine of the one, that of the other... And we are hearing them because we need that information from the citizens of this country and all, right?, those who are affected by this moment. And, in that sense, we do propose that it be the technicians who tell us the basis, the basis, of what political agreements and political decisions are. And in the context of those discussions. I don't know if it's strictly in the minutes, or if it's in the explanatory way, in the way those decisions are made. For, in this sense, the explanations of LABI technicians would also be very welcome, of course, by this Parliament, by the parliamentary groups, but, above all, by society, because this Parliament is going to be the echo, and channel of communication, of those technical or scientific decisions that underpin political decisions. And it will be very important that... that appearance or technical reports, also in Parliament, accompany the councilwoman weekly or when the LABI meets, in relation to these issues, by two factors, which are two essential factors: The first is a political, democratic and legal, or normative factor. It is a certain and transparent information, for certainty, certainty and transparency. Know what you're talking about, know what you put on the table. And the second, then, is a very social factor. The knowledge of these views is also a factor of tranquillity for society, in the sense of the scientific basis of political decisions. The technical basis of those people who play their prestige, who put their professionalism and expertise We understand that this is a good way out. We understand that it is perfectly compatible with what you have proposed, and we support our amendment in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u66	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing round the teams that don't show any corrections together, the Podemos needn't speak a word. Basque Socialists, yes. Mr. Rico, it's yours from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u67	From the seat, if I may, Madam President. We have not tabled an amendment and we are going to vote against the initiative, because we do not want to contribute to Vox's strategy of casting a sort of shadow of suspicion on the decisions being taken in relation to the pandemic. Decisions based on scientific criteria, on the evidence and, moreover, that it is evident that they are correct, as long as we have known – yesterday the Sailburu explained to us And I am also curious that anyone who complains about this initiative of lack of information, perhaps in some speech, has done so and slipped it, but has not asked any written questions or requests for documented information asking for such documentation. Other groups have. And if that information is not sent, it will be in the process of sending, because, as Mr Barrio has just explained, the Government cannot refuse to give that information. And at that time, it will be accessible to any citizen. Therefore, we do not want to play this game, this shadow of suspicion that Vox intends to deploy, and we will vote against the initiative. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u68	Thank you, Mr. Rico. The representative of the EH Group must not speak a word. Not even the eubertarians. So, when you're ready to answer, Missya, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u69	Good morning. This Parliament certainly gives us many surprises. The first, this resistance of the health cord parties to transparency in the management of the health crisis. To make public, again I insist, the reports with which LABI works and the minutes of these meetings. It is surprising that, with pilgrim arguments or with silences, they defend opacity and give way to this Government to do and undo its will, without explanation, without accountability to anyone. That is the consequence of his position. I am a little surprised by the amendment tabled by the People's Party, because I see it a little poor. I remember that we are talking about real transparency, Carmelo, of publishing in Irekia reports and records, not of transferring to society interested interpretations of reports that remain hidden. It is also surprising that there are still parties that express a supposed democratic pulcrity to reject proposals that they themselves could present, proposals of a party, Vox, which has arrived here endorsed by the vote of thousands of people, with strict respect, moreover, to the rules of the game. The PSE would have made this proposal, I am sure, if it were opposition. But, of course, it is a government, and now it is a strong defender of the opacity and the concealment of the criteria that lead them to make decisions, although on so many occasions it has asked what Vox has brought to this House today. It can hardly justify its support for the Government, contrary to its own interests. But, of course, everything goes against this invented fascism, against which they seek to save the shame. You, the health cordon parties, are saying no to transparency in managing a crisis that is leaving victims of all kinds. They are saying yes to opacity and insist on saying no to democracy, maintaining, I repeat, a health cord to which they are shaping, depending on the occasion, but always health cord. Today we know that the PNV is the leader, precisely the party most interested in hiding what reports take into account and what does not, what kind of arguments are handled in the LABI for decision-making. If a formation that is said to be serious and respectful, people of faith, but, in the end, everything goes well, especially when Bildu steps on their feet and points to Frankenstein alliances, which could evict them from a government that they have always believed in. Many people are being condemned and left without a future, without a choice. They deny them the voice, deny them the debate, and prevent them from knowing and hinder them from understanding. As for the criteria to which Mr Rico was referring, I do not know whether he was referring to the scientific criteria of Jonan Fernández. Greetings.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u70	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u71	Yes, thank you, Madam President, with your permission, from the seat and briefly. Mrs Martinez, you have the right to that information that you ask for. Ask for it; you will see how there is a regulatory procedure that establishes it and proclaims your right to information, protects it to you and, of course, in passing, to all parliamentary groups and preserves... and so the Government responds to the obligation to give such information. I believe that this is a good time, a good political way to act, in relation to this issue. You have described our amendment as whole, our initiative, as poor. Well, I have tried to find a way out of the lack of movement of your initiative, because your initiative could, of course, have started with that parliamentary complaint, on the basis of Rule 11 or 51 of the Rules of Procedure, where parliamentary information is discussed. In any case, I would have had the final run of this initiative and I would, of course, have supported it if the Government had not responded to that requirement. That is, in that sense, what I have sought, with my initiative, is to move a way out of this situation. And I have done so in a way that I have understood correctly, and good and effective, and that is that the technicians accompany the counselor and substantiate the decisions that LABI makes or that the Government makes in relation to anything, and that the technical team or the representation of the technical team, who can better support these issues in those appearances, should come in these weekly appearances. I think that's what we've seen, and that's why I was referring to the rulings of the previous advisory council, but it was a way out. And, in any case, Mrs Martínez, I am very sorry about the poor and sad spectacle that some groups are giving in this House with an unfortunate anti-democratic cord. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u72	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Rico, the Basque Socialists, the word is yours from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u73	Very briefly, Madam President. I think you don't mind whether we intervene or not, Mrs Martinez. I think you don't mind listening to what the other parties tell you, and you're still with your perorata and you're still "lack of transparency"... I remind you: the Counsellor is here every week in this Parliament, not because you have asked for it. No, no... We have been asked by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, the two parties that support this government. I said, do you know what the Socialist Party would have done? His duties in the opposition. And I would have asked for the documentation. If you haven't, it's your problem. Other groups have, and they're going to have that documentation. And you will have it, because that is moved to the website of the Basque Parliament and is accessible to all citizens, not just parliamentarians, to all citizens. But there's one thing I can't consent to. You say we're saying no to democracy. Look, Mrs Martinez, I don't know where you were hiding when in this country you were really fighting for democracy. I can tell you where the Socialist Party was: on the front line and giving face, as today, to those who arrive at the institutions with the spurious motives of trying to delegitimize their own democracy and institutions. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u74	Thank you, Mr. Rico. After discussion, we'll put the original text of Mrs Martín with Mrs. Grayleña. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters 1, the contrary 68; the abscesssion, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u75	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudads. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters six; the opponents are 68; the abscesssion is 1. white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u76	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos-Emoger as a parlamentary team, in the pandema of COVID-19, was to increase the frequency of the public transportation. Discipline and final resolution. The next is the representative of the Podemos-IU team together, Mr. de Martínezion has the word in order to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u77	Good afternoon, thank you. The state declamation of the alarm gave the Eucomune the ability to seize several measures, and, in a certain sense, to stop the infection rates of Euskacin's excommunications. We all know from that point forward, and added to the measures that were in use, that the Euskion was prohibited from the Basques and the townships, and that health, labor, or other reasons are causes. At the same time, the unseasonably necessary for the use of the mask, and also the security policy of the 1,5 meters, of the individual. Economy and academic activity were maintained and maintained, which leads to the maintenance of a not very small move rate. Public transports, both within and in the suburb of the city, continue to have potential infections, because it is impossible to maintain the distance between people. We don't say that the data is there for now even though it's already gone... yesterday at the Medical Committee, the exact details we requested again are no longer data, public transports, or collective reports say they are a infection. But it is true that the focus is or is a potential one, and it is true that it produces instability in people in some cases. After all, in certain areas, we have reduced, for instance, to the capacity of supporting the minimum security division in this whole circle, but in public transports or collective transports, the frequency has not been the same, nor has it increased, in certain hours, to reduce the mastation. It is a state in which society is going to be excluded from public transport, from the danger of infection, and, above all, probably from different sensations. And what is happening is, as I was saying, that he is returning to his private vehicle by means of a telegram, which, in absolute terms, has lowered the use of the private vehicle. This practice of finding a safer mobility, of course, is respectable, and it is also understandable, but it is a great step back in the nicest and tolerable mobility of Euscatatic, and the policies we have to reduce our private use of a vehicle to the aid of the Eryban, for the effective baucarias, and, of course, for the purpose of fighting against climate change. It is true, for instance, that in some other countries, there is probably a positive influence, and that at least we have the sense that the use of our bicycles has even climbed into daily life, and not only for leisure. Together, from the Podemos-Itareuerda Unidas, I repeat, in order to improve the security of the people who carry the public transportation, in order to ensure the security of the public transport, by increasing the frequency, to respect the security opinions of persons, and even to reduce these sensations and this danger of infection. The data on the decline of users during the pandemic, at least the data that is published, are – well, so – alarming and worrying. Normal on the one hand, and it explains on the one hand the telework, and also the hard weeks of confinement. But, in general, we can say that the use of public transport has fallen from 38% of the Gasteiz tram to 67% of the Bilbao tram. And, among other things, we have, for example, the 43% drop in the Top, the 49% drop in the Lurraldebus, or the 50% drop in Tuvisa. But these data cannot hide another reality, which is the massing of transport at certain peak hours and on specific lines. We are talking, for example, about the Bilbao metro, especially in the common trunk, and in peak hours also, for example, on the Bilbao lineGasteiz or GasteizBilbao bus; the Gasteiz tram itself, of the lines that go to the Leioa campus of the EHU, both from Gasteiz and from the city of Bilbao itself; the Irun-Donostia bus line; the Tuvisa service itself, which has not recovered the frequencies cut by the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz during the first period of confinement –measured, by the way, that the syndicate of the city of VitoriaGasteiz has already repeated, on more than one occasion, in which the frequencies, as they are in other means of transport, have to be recovered; or, for example, the Bermeo-Bilbao line, also of Bizkaibus. And, surely, they will be given in rush hours on other lines and in other services, which we have not come to detect. To increase the frequency of all the means of transport within the city is a measure which in every Eukadian town and in every hour of time may be economically difficult. We confess, and we don't ask for it. Before the arrival of the pandemic – and, moreover, this is something that we hear a lot – there was already a deficit in the chapter on revenue and expenditure of transport services in Euskadi, a deficit of around 279 million euros. But, well, we could also see it as an investment, and we know that transport, generally, is going to be deficient, and more in these pandemic times. Badakigu egoera, aurrekontuen aldetik, zaila her, bathe publikoa ezinbastekoa da. You die in a zerbitzu beat yes, age selfish honorer egokitu behar in a zerbitzu beat yes. On our side, we say again, today, we're ready to protect this kind of financially and budget, starting from the state government, past the EukoY, and finished at any major council or town council. Thus, together, the Podemos-IU proposes a measure which is to be traced to the hour of the highest user's intensity, for those hours agree to work, and to get out of it with hours. "Vuelvo a decir que la medica que tumos reclado es adaptar las fruccias, adaptar el servicio, sobre todo, en las horas de más doves, un dovetinsivo, que, generale, suele coincidir cons las rondas y salidas a los pustos de lajo, centos de la denitres de moiteras de vé." And I also believe that the package of measures that, from most of the groups that are present at the moment, have been taken to this initiative, I think, were perfectly compatible. From EH Bildu, in addition to the frequency and pitch proposal, other measures were laid down which, perhaps more synthetically, we have introduced in the compromise proposal we have reached with EH Bildu. They're measures that, far from any... – both those that we carry in our initiative and those that were proposed on their part – that far from making the lack of security look alarmist, they seek to strengthen security and, above all, the feeling of security for many people who are afraid. I, personally, have been told, and that feeling of fear is on the street, even if there are security measures, that there are, but we are proposing that they be intensified. And, also, of course, the proposal of the People-Citizens Group, regarding the information on the situation of the forum, to study where possible in..., because, probably and first of all, it would not be in all means of transport, but yes, well, it seems to us a good measure to start working. Eta gero, bueno, ba, trenbideetan propositzen zuten maiztasunak bereskuratzeko proposimenen hori, bozkatu genuen gure talketik PPk eta Ciudadanosek duela aste batzuk aurkeztu zuen ekimen batan, bereskuratu behar direlako garraio-system guztietan COVID bath lehen zeuden maiztasun guztiak. Eta hori exacteten dugu, lehenbailehen, éz éz du axola nork daukan konpetentzia zentzu horretan. Guztiok lagundu behar dugu maiztasun horiek bereskuratzeko. In addition, the International Public Transport Association talks about three key measures to minimize the risk of contagion in transport. One is the use of masks, which I believe is a measure, which, of course, apart from being compulsory, is widespread, but we introduced something as simple as increasing awareness and campaigns of their use. It also recommends disinfection of high-contact surfaces. For example, to give an example, which came out in yesterday's debate of the Arab General Councils on this same issue, also presented by our Arab Elkarrekin joint group, Tuvisa's example is that the units are cleaned once a day. So, our question, we weren't even introducing how many times or how often it had to be done, is whether we can improve this issue. And, if it cannot be improved, why do we not generalize a measure that is introduced in some means of transport and not in others, that is the placement of hydroalcoholic gel machines in the units themselves, in the stops, etc., because it is a measure that is not in all transport systems, along with measures that we also talk about in the transaction, such as good ventilation and frequent renovation of air, that in many means of transport are being done, but still much remains to be done. Anyway, this was the proposal. And surely, someone who doesn't know where the shots came from, with this explanation, will surely agree. And on the text, I believe that also: on Tuesday morning, we offered to negotiate a compromise to all the political groups present in this debate and we were open and open to negotiate the contents of that compromise. Baina, Gobernua sustangatzen duten taldeen partetik, Bakarrik "we can't enter" jaso dugu, weretzun bezala, "not even sit down to negotiate", to see if on a subject we think..., although I don't like to use much the term, which can become of "common sense", we are not even able to sit down to negotiate, and the truth is that it is a little bit a mix between laziness, frustration and I don't know whether to roll or that, totally in this matter, all the proposals by the opposition are disregarded. Because, I say again that it is a proposal again, we believe that, constructively, we believe that nothing alarmist, we believe that totally plausible to do, that it was open to negotiate, that there has been time to do so, that for our part we were willing to do so, that, on the part of other parliamentary groups, it was also willing to do so. And, well, then, another example of the way, I do not know whether, of contempt for the debates in this House on this matter or of what, but there has been absolutely no willingness to negotiate either by the Socialist Party or by the Basque Nationalist Party on this matter. And, I say again: we were willing, and in fact I am saying again, at this time of the debate, that we are ready – indeed, the transaction that we have signed EH Bildu and our group reflects the fundamentals of the proposals of the amending groups, except the proposals of the Joint Group – and that it remains open to negotiation as well in terms of the time remaining for debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u78	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Passing to the teams that's running the corrections, Mistto's not here. Stand by the EH team, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u79	Yes, hello, good morning to all. We are much concerned with the influence of this subject, in the public transport of coronavirus, in other areas, but also in public transports. We've seen, or rather seen, two weeks ago, the figures of which were seen in various transports. In fact, we don't see so much of each other in the last few days, at least on the media, but that doesn't mean that the problems are completely settled. And that's why we thought it interesting for us to propose to each other the proposition of Podemos-Sauerda Unida. It must be said that there are no problems, because, for instance, we learned about the College Council at EHU yesterday about e-mails. In this respect, then, we must say or remark that a thing which the proposition says, but which was essential to us, and that it is necessary that the frequency should increase, whether reinforcements or aid services should be placed at the appointed hours, at the very moment when the greater number of people is collected. And, on the other hand, it seemed to us a fine opportunity or opportunity to add other proposals, in this proposition of prevention. And so, after all, we have advanced five measures in the correction of the whole, and have received nearly as much in the middle we have obtained. I mean, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, I mean, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, I mean, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, like, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, you know, And on the other hand, there would be other public transports that might not be under the fire of the Eukong, but I'd like to know if you had some kind of a split-up or had some kind of funding, so we think, even in recommendation, it would have to give you the five measures. The first of these five measures would, as I have said, be to increase the frequency at certain hours. We argued on the transport team to collect EH, and we thought it was important to put a measure on it. And we thought that when a vehicle has been busy since 70%, there's a problem with keeping distance already. So that's where we put a limit. That boundary is not questionable. We even talked about it, but as I've been told by Don Martín, there's no question of correction. And so, well, here's the number. We think that when this occupation is over, we must provide for reinforcements, and that this limitation of theirs may be made, but not otherwise? We believe that it may be admitted to the lowness of the content if the rates grow. The other measures would be the second of the ventilation. I believe that it has already been sufficiently proved that it has already been transmitted through the aeroplanes, and therefore the ventilation is in this matter. And therefore it seems to us, that certain measures established in so many transports are very interesting. I, for instance, am the agent of the Gastine tram, and not from the beginning of the pandemia, but they put a little further forward an interesting measure. And at every stop, automatically, the doors open, so that the air is renewed. And we believe that a certain simple measure should be proposed in all other transports. With that, the little windows on the buses should be open all the time. And if the transports are regional or if they're longer, we think chauffeurs should activate a system of ventilation every 20 minutes. Again, those 20 minutes are controversial, but we thought it was important to put them somewhere, to talk. There has been no interviews. The third measure would be the washing, the disinfection. We believe that at the end of all services vehicles must be disinfected. It's already done in some cases, but I think we should take advantage of these preventive measures. And so, if a transport renders a continuous service, I think we should have to do it at most every two hours or a cleanup. Again, another questionable figure, which was agreed to speak, but there was no conversation. The fourth measure was connected with the security of passengers. Distance must be maintained, a mask must be carried, controls can be increased. I think, until now, there's been controls. Security workers have helped it, and their work is appreciated. But we think we should be paying attention now, not leaving the vehicle inside, even at the stations. We believe that even at stations there have been swarms, and that there must be distances in them, especially if the stations are closed, right? And lastly, there would be the safety of the workers. For the safety of the workers, we believe that many of the men who have been placed are not adequate. We've had our complaints. The plants sometimes create reflexes if it rains and then the sun shines. And in that sense, safety is probably good in the eyes of health, but in the security of other traffic, it supposes a danger. And so we proposed that we put without reflexes. We should also try to promote payments by a card or even by mobiles... And in other working rooms, not only when they're driving, even in offices, toilets, and dressing rooms, do we think the EPIs should be available there? Ah, masks, hydrogels, etc. And these were our five measures, quite technical, as you can see. And we don't quite understand why there hasn't been any interviews. Of course, it would take an investment to do that. That investment... nay, it would be necessary to increase an investment in certain points. But even if that would raise a little defense that is being piled up in the public transport, we believe that, if it does not take this measure, the defense will eventually be bigger, because people... for some of the people see that they are not carefully preserved in certain points, and consequently that this is going against the public transport. So, well, we think that if you don't want it to be really more defensive, then we think we should be able to guarantee the health and security of the public transportation by applying those five measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u80	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. The Basque Popular Group, representative of Ciudadnos, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u81	Thank you. We, well, want to start by saying that, today, those who use public transport don't do it for leisure, because they have a need: a need to go to work, to go to the doctor or to study. So, of course, situations like those we've seen in the press, in which you see buses, to the top, to the subway, with a lot of people inside, without being able to maintain the distances of safety..., without sanitary measures not to be infected in front of this virus, because in the end, what they do is to put a little focus on how to manage this type of transport. Because, look, right now, when one can only go to work, and maybe you don't have the option of having the private vehicle to go to work or you can't go on a bike because it's too far away, so don't give it the solution so that you can go to work, or the doctor, or study, under the right sanitary conditions, because in the end, we're generating, we're creating, a comparative aggravation with other citizens. And I would like to say that in public transport we have to safeguard the rights of all citizens. And the right not to be infected is also there. If we do not give them the opportunities, that is, the appropriate frequencies, so that there are no, there are no, agglomerations, even not..., that is, they cannot have enough social distance not to be infected, in the end, we are not giving a good public service. And it's about providing good public services, and transportation is a public service. In the amendment, that is, in the GNP submitted by Podemos... we, in principle, only saw and presented an amendment to the whole of which we added two things: one, that transport users knew at all times what the vehicle or the transport they were going to take, to decide whether to go up or not. And, two, we thought it was essential to continue talking about rail transport and to have an interview with the Ministry of Transport, in order to resume the existing frequencies prior to 14 March. Why? Because at the moment it is important that all public transport is in action, to give solutions to all those who need it. Because it is important that public transport is 100 %, even 150 %, because we already know that the economic situation is not the right one at the moment, but the need to provide services is what moves us, to provide services that guarantee non-contagion against this enemy who is the virus. A while ago my colleague made an inquiry, saying that mayors of neighbouring towns in Alavesa, even spoke of Miranda, spoke of Treviño County, were unable to access or reach Vitoria, because their only transport was the railway. Not only the only transport, but the one that offered them the needs they had. So, of course, important. And we understand and welcome the Podemos initiative, even the transaction they have made with Bildu, in which they emphasize health, safety, distancing, hygienic measures, increasing frequencies, if necessary... Look, I'm remembering right now the Irun-San Sebastián line, which takes college students, is that they don't have any more options. We should give choices to people who are going to study, they don't go for leisure, they have to go to study. We have... We need our young people to train, but what we don't want is for them to get sick. Therefore, it is necessary to accept the measures set out in the transaction of Podemos and Bildu, because in the end we are for this, to give solutions, and not to create problems. And when we limit the stops on public transport, what we have to do is give another... an option, so that those who need to use public transport do so. In fact, here we move a lot with the environmental issue. Using public transport is environmentally sustainable; sustainable; forgiveness. Therefore, very important, the frequencies, replenish the frequencies of the railway, negotiating with Renfe, all before the 14 of March; decrease the means, so that the users of the public transport travel safely; hygiene and cleaning measures in the public transports; ventilation measures so that... renew the air of all public transport. All these situations have to be done and we have to do them from here, and we have to negotiate them in the entities... the necessary transport authority, but also with the Spanish Ministry of Transport. I would therefore like to say that we will vote in favour of our amendment, because that of Podemos does not include rail transport; however, we also agree with the compromise they are putting before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u83	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Chief of Investigation, Congressmen, good morning to all of you. Just before we start, a little shade. The explanation of this end, your argument, is placed in a concrete legal context, in Decree, 926/20, October 25th, and we must say that this contextation is a mistake. This decree includes a decree, so that all the decisions which have been made have been made here. From the jurisdiction of the Basque Government, some measures are established in the 36/20 Decrean for the President, and consequently amongst many matters, even public transports are founded on this. It is at least curious that in the statements made by the proposer group some conclusions of their own, of course, regarding public transport in this health crisis, not to mention any scientific study. Sincerely, it has given me the impression that it has been drafted, as almost always, by firing by elevation, without reliable data and with the sole aim of trying to place this Government and, in particular, the Department of Public Transport, in a position of irresponsibility. It would have been so irresponsible not to take any action as to create an alarm, absolutely reckless and unnecessary, as is the case with this GNP which you are bringing to the debate today. In decision-making, it is usually advisable to make an analysis of the situation from the objectivity that the data have yielded, and in a manner proportional and consistent with the specific situation that is being experienced. There is no doubt that the pandemic has forced many public services to be rehabilitated, and transport has certainly not escaped. This Government, like other institutions and the totality of service providers in our autonomous community, has done precisely that previous exercise, in conjunction, between the sanitary measures to be taken and the number of users that there were at every moment. To this end, in order to agree on the necessary measures to adapt public transport to these measures and to the present situation, the Euskadi Transport Authority met on 5 November. Look, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, once again, if they had properly analysed the number of users and the measures taken in this regard, it is very likely that they would have had no means of presenting this initiative, which we are debating today in this House. Once again, your imagination has placed you at the wrong chaotic and irresponsible juncture of a government, of which you would have wished it to have performed an absolute abandonment of functions, so that you would have become, once again, not only the adalides of responsibility, but far beyond that, the absolute creators of the measures that will save humanity, and, once again, unfortunately for you, again err. If they had objectively analysed the data, they would know that there has been a drastic decrease, a drastic reduction, of the users of public transport, which means that And with a greater affluence and with regard to the decrease in the use of public transport in services at times of greater influx, they will know that this is, approximately, a decrease of between 20% and 40%. Therefore, all decisions taken by the Transport Authority itself have always been based on scientific evidence, on the conclusions, inter alia, of studies carried out in this regard in different countries, such as France, Austria, Germany or the United States, updated until 27 August 2020. And, among the main conclusions that have been drawn from the studies on which the decisions taken have been based, are the following: the first, that public transport is not a focal point of contagion. The studies determine that, with all the measures taken, the risk is zero percent on 70-minute trips, passing to one percent in higher times, i.e. the lowest of all the clusters studied, cases that are never repeated or given in Euskadi. The correct application of barrier elements, of mandatory use marked by the Department of Health, coupled with the characteristics of the journey (they are not of long duration on a regular basis; passengers speak less than in other situations; there is less interaction, once installed inside) results in a great limitation of the transmission of the virus. From the various competent institutions, as well as from the operators, the following measures have been taken both in the rail sector and in urban and inter-urban road transport: frequencies have been increased as much as possible and all rolling stock has been made available; automatic opening systems have been installed, where possible, in 100 % of the convoys; frequencies have been adjusted according to the number of users; hydrogels are available in all non-rail stations; safety in convoys and stations has been strengthened to ensure compliance with the measures laid down; cleaning of stations and rolling stock has been strengthened; maintenance of air renewal equipment has been strengthened; instruments and campaigns have been put in place to discourage the use of physical tickets; preference has been given to means of payment other than cash; the ban on smoking at stations, on the surface... In addition, additional measures have been taken, such as the encouragement or obligation to travel in silence, the prohibition of eating any food and/or drink during the journey or journey, and the promotion of time-flexibility measures or the staggering of working hours, which help to smooth demand at peak hours. It is therefore a question of taking measures based on scientific observations, and not on assumptions, which, as in this case, only cause a disincentive in the use of public transport. Fortunately, we continue to have a transport that covers social demand and preserves, in the best possible way, the conjunction between the provision of an essential public service and that this provision is made with absolute security for users and users of it. Perhaps it would have been much more constructive to make an appeal to comply with the measures established by the competent bodies and to encourage society to continue to bet on the use of public transport, to the detriment of the private car. Once again, you, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, have presented an initiative without in-depth, in order to end up going to the postulates of EH Bildu, which you have included in your compromise amendment as a whole, and your only contribution as a parliamentary group has been to incorporate the 70 % mark. You're late, because what you're asking for is already being done. And it's done in a measured and proportional way, depending on the situation we're living in. We already know that, as always, for you, anything that this government does will be insufficient, because for you there will always be the possibility of applying that "and a harder egg more", but in this case, based on dozens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u84	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good noon. How to deal with COVID-19. This is everybody's challenge for the last few months. But life goes on in the midst of this pandemy, and that's how it should be. And to continue with our daily life, we need resources, including transports, right? In order to go to our stations, to the schools, or to other places, we need that as we go. We need to guarantee it. We want safe. And we may happily say that our public transports are at this moment secure. And this is not one thing that I say, but what so many inquiries say, and what we could see about us. Elkarrekin We can, in the justification of the non-legislative proposal that we are debating today, affirm that "public transport both urban and interurban remains a potential focus of contagion." He has mattized here, well; he has said that the potential is not to say that it is a focal point of contagion. Well... "And that the use of the private vehicle is increasing, in search of that safety that public transport does not offer." Well, I believe that these are two statements that are not supported, at least on your initiative, by any data. And not only that, but there are studies that come to conclude just the opposite of what is claimed here, right? We cannot, by any means, say that the public transport is a leak of infection, which has been fortunately proved nowhere. It's true that sometimes we've all felt fear when we've seen trains or buses and people... A lot of passengers, right? We could call it "patters." And you said sensations too. I say those images have made me shudder too. But fear is one thing, and reality is another thing, and what results from it, or what happens there, isn't it? And so many studyes have been made, and just the contrary of that impression which this fear or sensation can produce in us, and has been mentioned. In August we could place the data of various researches as the result, and Mr. Atduza, after studying hundreds of infections, mentioned none of them has been connected with the public transportation. And he said, too, that during voyages of 70 minutes, these investigations take the risk of infection, and when they're a little longer, on the 1st. So we may say that the transport is not a focus for all of us, fortunately. I think it's necessary to say things when they're good, and that's a relief to all of us. Even if the prevention measures established by the health department are properly used in transport, well, the transmission of virus is very limited. Mr. Donduza has placed it: the Decree of the 26th President of October, 36/20, after the alarm condition, and the development of the epidemic situation. And there are so many measures to be made, and so many measures to apply to the conveyance, is there not? And you say: That's how people can use cars until they've got that kind of capacity they've got. And in private cars, if we go with the mask, all the squares can be filled. Billet sale, well, to avoid pea-and the contact that can be. You said you'd always have to use the kiss, too. That on voyages of less than two hours, one can neither eat nor drink. And from that point on, they recommend other measures to keep quiet. And fortunately, when we often go to work or to study, we go alone in a public transport, and it may be very easy to go quietly. And that, too, seems to diminish the danger. This week, I think, Monday, the politicalized mobiles of Gipulia, Mrs. Romero gave an interview during the earlier law of the Republic where she was going to mention some data. He would say: Since pandemia began, no Landbus driver has tested positive in COVID-19. And that they, according to their view, have decided that they have limited the content to 80%, there has not been any infection in their buses, and that now they are serving at 100 percent. And he said, too, that if at certain exact times the occupation is greater, well, they have an opportunity of strengthening, and that they have done it, but in very few cases it has been necessary. And I say this as an example, the buss in the gym. But I believe that there are examples of this kind in all the other services which constitute the public Eucharistic transport. How do we force an operator who's being served at 100%? Or how, for instance, the Bilbo subway? It was noted, and he said that every two minutes a train arrives at the stations. How are we supposed to do it, or with our trains, we have only one-way tracks, how do we increase that frequency? Actually, technically, if there's any problems there, right? They also support the PNL in which citizens are opting for the use of the private vehicle, because they do not trust the safety of the public. But they also do not provide data, and, moreover, you have acknowledged, the use of the private vehicle has also fallen, as is normal. I, well then, have asked and since Bidegi, which is the public society that manages the high-capacity roads in Gipuzkoa, gave me data of the decrease in the traffic of light vehicles on the motorways that they manage, so starting from 41% in March to 76% in April; in September it was less, 12%, but it is increasing. As the pandemic evolves upwards or downwards, so these data also change. And we can say that just those who start using the vehicle are the ones who don't want to use... it's that we can't find out who is the user of that private vehicle at the time. I believe that bringing non-legislative propositions without relying on data is very risky, Mr Martínez. But, well, I do not deny that there are people who have opted for the use of the private vehicle when they did not before, because fear is free and those feelings that we have all been able to feel at some point, because, well, they can make certain decisions. But I think we need to be a little more serious here. On November 5, there was a meeting of the Transport Authority where all the operators gave a lot of data. And it was the main data that the number of passengers have decreased greatly during pandemia, and that, well, we all know. Mr. Ariza has also said that the number of wanderers or travelers has been reduced between 28 and 67, if we compare it with the year preceding. And that's what makes travel in all the hours. And then, well, it's true that at some time these public transports are more used, but sometimes they are almost empty. The reversal of the air has been mentioned, and in this case these facts have been given. For instance, every four minutes on trains the air returns. Or, well, at other times, it's probably more frequency, and technically, you've already said, "Robviously, we're not ready to do that review automatically, and it's necessary; but, as far as possible, they complete all these measures. And considering that most of our voyages are very short of time, I think it may be said that our public transportation is not a focus to infect. Besides, during the last few weeks... We've had the discussion today, too, about the closing of the host and so on, and it's been a tough measure. Now we've begun to see the results. And we see where the infection focus is. And at this time we have seen, fortunately, how the infection numbers are going down and there is no special measure taken in the public transport. So, I don't think any unnecessary alarms should be created either. And then you've mentioned economic consequences. He says it's very cold to talk about economic consequences in such matters, but that's also what it is. And today we have a defense of about 300 million. And you have spoken of tolerable motion, and I agree with it: The more public transportation can be used, the less private will be used, the more tolerable, the better... But I'd like to have a permanent motion, which also brings a economic analysis with it. So, today, we'll keep our correction. We were saying that we want a safe public transport, and that we should put more resources in order to guarantee that security. Well, let's do it as it comes to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Passing on the answers, the representative of the Podemos-IU, Mr Martínezin, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u87	Yes, thank you. I believe you have launched the campaign to propose improvements to whatever extent it is to generate alarm. To propose improvements in the COVID, in the coronavirus, we did it in the first... with the lehendakari, in the first confinement; we did it in meetings with the lehendakari, in the first confinement; we did it in the electoral campaign, and we have been doing it since we entered this Parliament again, and we are in generation of... in the situation of COVID. Mr Andueza, I do not allow you, and I hope you will reflect on this, to say about my group that it is generating alarm in the middle of this pandemic, because we have a sufficient responsibility and a sufficient height of sight... No, don't make gestures like that, uplifting; it's not necessary... But I don't allow you to say that Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita is doing it, it's generating alarm... I tell you again: you want to have a position like the one you and I have in the Congress of Deputies, but it's just that you can't find it, because Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita all you do is make proposals. And we are not saying or causing alarm, nor have we said that in public transport everyone is infected, not even the initiative says so. The potential word We have not said, at any time – I encourage you to listen again to my speech – at any time that the Basque Government has done nothing. At no time. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's all we've said. The same thing we said at the hotel store: okay, we support the measures, but more needs to be done. The same thing we've said in other things. And besides, the theme of peak time frequencies says it... That's the dugu Elkarrekin We can-We can-We can-We can-We can talkek. Esaten of EH Bilduk. Esaten du PP-Ciudadanosek. Baina, badakizu nor gehiagok esaten two? The LABI. November 2, recommendation number nine: "With regard to the use of public transport it is advisable to avoid agglomerations, especially in peak hours. To this end, it is very convenient to increase the frequencies of transport and the number of units in these slots." Call Mr Lehendakari, who will be present in this House, who is the sole director of LABI, and calls him a demagogue and alarmist.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u88	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Stand by the EH team, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u89	Yeah. Hello again. I must testify that from Podemos an essay has been made to make a medium, and the contributions of all the groups that were received were sent, and the answer was "no" without explanation. Now you mention France, Austria, Germany, United States reports, I don't know what... In the morning, I came from El Pilate to the parliamentary, the tram. All the seats were taken. And while we were standing, well, keeping distance could not be assured on certain points. And I'd say the operation of the vehicle wouldn't have been in the way. Do you need a report for that? People see what's going on. So we think, and so we have proposed, and that is the foundation of our proposal, when we arrive at 70% of the operation of vehicles, or at these points above 70%, we need aid services. Of course it's impossible sometimes, as Mrs. Beragon said. Maybe at the Bilbo subway, at some point, you can't do it. Well, you can't put it on, and it's the point. But in all other transports, we're sure it can be done. As to PP's proposal, I must say, we have not very well understood their first point. They brought back a motive that they brought here. And So, when you see there's something interesting on the other side, then there's an attempt to get in the middle of it. You're not gonna sign, okay, you're voting for the vote. Well, you've got a political veto, and you'll know why you'll keep it to yourself, and so on. But, to be honest, you agree with the content. It's so good to see you. And, actually, when I saw EAJ and PSE, I was surprised at the correction. And I was surprised for the best, because you admit there are some adaptations to be made. Here's what you said. everything is beautiful, everything is perfect... But have you read your correction? You say that frequency must be adapted, that the occupation and the prevention measures must be adapted. Of course, we agree. And in this lies the foundation of our proposition. Then we can discuss whether 70%, 80 percent, we can talk there. But we also say that we must adapt. And you say so too, yes, if necessary. Sure. Do you think that we propose to adapt ourselves, even if it is not necessary? Well, no, we say that when there's a lot of occupation, there's a lot of frequency involved. The other day Mrs. Beragon told me that when I speak technically, I'm going well, or that I don't feel so good, right? This is a point of superiority in the Government; You seem to be in charge and you can't say anything. And actually, our proposal is very technical. And I'll tell you something else, technical: you said that in the public transport the defence of $300 million is massing because of the coronabirus. And that's not true. And if not, the chief of the Arriolas, who is here, said the day before... Look, before the coronavirus existed, what was already deficit in the public transport, eh? So what we've said here is that we have to make a public investment in order to increase the frequency, especially during the extreme hours, and that even though that may increase a little deficit, it deserves to be a longer period of view, because it will help us to avoid that defense much longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u90	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. The Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans will not speak. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u91	Thank you, ma'am. Look, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, all the measures that have been taken by the operators and by the various institutions involved have been agreed within the Euskadi Transport Authority. And in other transport authorities too, such as in Gipuzkoa, where among others is Errenteria City Hall, which, I think, is governed by you. Ask them to see what additional measures you have proposed here are taking there. And I would recommend that you carefully read the interview to my colleague Rafaela Romero, this very week, in the Vasco Diario, of which Mrs Berasaluze mentioned, because, probably, I can shed a little more light on this issue. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, I was very grateful when you said in your first speech: "No, we do not want the public transport deficit to increase". Listen, but instead of encouraging it, you have come here to dig the grave of public transport, generating an alarm, so that people do not use it and therefore the deficit is greater. Good way to help reduce that deficit. To Mr. Martínez Zatón. In parts... On the basis of what do you determine that the measures taken by the Basque Government are insufficient? Tell me on what basis. Tell me on what basis! I've put a series of studies on him on the table. You've come here saying you've come to propose improvements. And I ask him: but, what improvements? But have you read the proposal that you have brought to this House today, to debate? Do you see any kind of improvement there, any kind of proposal? The only proposals that have been incorporated are those which the EH Bildu Members put into the amendment, which you have negotiated, incorporated and which are the same recommendations as the Spanish Government to which you belong. You, in your original proposal, have not even been able to put in those minimum proposals of a government to which you belong. Look at how little you've worked on this issue. That is why I say that many times you shoot by elevation, that you do not work the initiatives you present, and that is that it is a tangible reality. Tell me, not these gentlemen, what proposals you have brought today, through the proposal we are debating. Tell me. Not one. Not even one, Mr. Martinez Zatón, please. Once again, you have been dragged back by these gentlemen; you have taken up your questions, and with that, you have also been attributed that these proposals have been made by you, when those who have truly made them have been the lords of EH Bildu. Anyway, it seems to me, at least, rather curious; let's leave it there. You were talking about that you have not come here to generate any alarmism and that you will not, under any circumstances, allow me to say that you have created alarm. Look, I will not only repeat this: you have come here today to create alarmism; you have come to put public transport as a focal point of contagion; you have come to say that public transport is an unsafe place; you have come to say that public transport, little less, is a problem, and, to the end, you have ended up stigmatising it, through a GNP that will not lead you anywhere. Mr Martínez Zatón, you have done yourselves little favor today in the use and promotion of public transport. You, today, with that attitude, with this GNP and with your second intervention, all you have contributed to has been to encourage the non-use of public transport. And you said that we despised the debate. Look, we didn't despise the debate; in fact, if we had despised it, right now I wouldn't be here, I'd be sitting in my seat, quiet. I would have ignored all the things you have said, some of which, for example, could tell you that they do not deserve much debate in this House. You say that we despise the debate. Is it not a contempt for you not to respect that there are parliamentary groups who do not want to agree with you on a compromise proposal, because you do not agree with what you are proposing? Is it the democratic spirit that engulfs you? Does it say that others do not respect the debate and despise it, when you are qualifying us as such, simply because we did not want to agree with you? Listen, look, you can want the protagonist you want, you can come here with the proposals you want, you can even tell us what you want, that for that we are in democracy; but please, once and for all, who have already been in politics for a few years, stop believing, for once, the navel of the world.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u92	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u93	Yeah. Mr Martínezin, you said to suggest improvements in creating or creating alarm. Mr. Donandez said to you: I didn't see in your initiative that you were looking for specific suggestions or improvements. And the alarm, I think, is done by such proposals as these, and they excite the alarm in the public. We said we all had feelings, didn't we? When we saw a lot of people on a train or a bus. But it must be said that it is not possible to tell the public that a case of infection has been detected in public transportation. Perhaps if we were to act carefully, we should say so, or if you were to bring in suggestions, and I think that's all right, and that's our job and your work, at least I'd ask you to do it a little carefully. SOCRATES: Then why did you bring this in? Honestly, I don't quite understand. And we know what LABI said. And before LABI the carriers answered also. And we also have data. And Tuvisa, for example, has a 100% service on lines that have the highest occupation. And at other times, well, they see the passengers are down and they don't need to grow up. Biscaibus and Bilbo have all their fleet to work. Landbus, 100% working. He mentioned Metro Bilbao, didn't he? , that various services cannot be increased: It has 42 units running and it can't increase that. Eukot's and trams at 100 percent, and besides, he's looking at more than that. And Renfe is not our jurisdiction, but he says, well, that people's journeys have diminished when they've been reduced to motion and they don't see any need to increase their services. This alarm... nik irakurri dut, baita ere, artikulu bat, Think Tank Mobility-ena, horko kid den José Dionisio González da bat eta Samir Awad beastea, éta bai esaten du "that have spread myths that have generated alarm", but that have been myths that also, and alerts, that have answered quickly... Eta lehen datuak eman ditu. "And that what he does is get a stigmatization of public transport." And if we are for such public transports, I think we ought to take care of our enterprises and what we say. And therefore, I think, what I said before: At least, I don't think we ought to do that from our public concerns. Just opposite. And Mr. Fernandez de Betoño has told me so many things that I told you that you made technical suggestions. I don't think that's wrong. That's fine. I told you only that the discussion about Donostania's passengers, after so many technical arguments, seemed to me a little simple, because you said that we should leave the work like that, and that we should spend the money on it to the needs of COVID-19, and then I didn't quite understand why so many technical arguments about the work, and then to complete it. But I'm not going to tell you how you're going to do your job, and besides, it's always good to listen to someone who has technical knowledge, even to learn others, right? You mentioned your experience today, because you came on the tram, because it was full. "Oh, well, well, well, it wouldn't be so much, it'd come half-way full, but you didn't like it." And you include in your proposal that we have to limit the content to 70%. You'll understand why we didn't accept it, won't you? You didn't like the look of the tram that was half full of you, but you're proposing to reduce the contents to 70%. Where do we get these data? Finally, it's all a feeling, what we think is how a train comes or how a bus comes. And I think managing and making decisions should be a little more serious. And then it's about the deficit. I said that the hole in 300 million was already in front of the COVID, and if we had to take measures, we'd have to make that defence bigger, and that's what we'd have to do. And he's already spending money on transport. Maybe you'd rather spend more. And I said it's bearable, but it's lasting. And you said, maybe we need to spend our time trying to trust people and not lose passengers. That's it, too, okay. But I believe even public matters are serious, and much more serious in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Now that we've ended our discussion, we'll vote together for the middle-direction signed by Podemos-IU and EH Collector. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 32; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u95	So it's canceled. We're going to vote for the total misto group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters 1, the contrary is 67; abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u96	So it's not accepted. Finally, we'll vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and the Euccanists. We can vote. I'm sorry. You've locked up your amendment... What? Ciudadanos'... ? I'm sorry. We'll vote for Popular-Ciudadnose's full correction, Misto... It's a vote... Yeah, we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; the votes are 74; the supporters are 11; the contrary is 41; the abstations are 22; white, 0.1, et seq.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u97	So it's not accepted. And finally, the Basque Socialists and the Eunciators have the full correction of the whole community. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 32; the abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-26.u98	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Next, I'll read a statement. As President of the Basque Parliament, I do it and proclaim it as a declaration of the President of the legislature, the day after the abolition of violence against women, the Eucionist Acionists Vascos, EH, Euscaliaists Sociialists, Sociists Vascos, which is agreed and signed together by the Society of Podemos-I, and the Basque parlaments. I'll read the briefing, and you'll have the full statement on the Basque Legal site. In the state created by Pandemia, we must attend to their houses, to the women and girls who are facing violence for the survival of their work, and the survival of their stations, and who deserve the full confession and solidarity of society. In this context, we have to continue to create adequate conditions for isolation, inability, and invisibility. That's why we want to remember all the women who murdered this year, especially the ones who killed Eukadin. They deserve the protection and confession of the whole community; this painful reality interposes us as a society, in order to continue the work, and in order that it may not happen. However, that is not enough; we must live up to a clear political commitment, because society requires institutions to make macho violence against women a political priority. It is time, as ever, for the full support and resources of public services and institutions to support women in their processes of liberation, recovery, empowerment and autonomy. It is essential for women to regain the fundamental right to a life worth living, with dignity and security. It is also a necessary condition for our towns and cities to be strengthened as spaces of safe, solidarity and equality. The Basque Parliament wants to express its solidarity with women and other victims of male-based violence. We assume our responsibility, in collaboration and coordination with all institutions, feminist and women's collectives, experts and agents of society. For this reason, the Basque Parliament is committed to: To place the rights of women victims of sexist violence at the centre of the entire care process, listening to and responding to their needs and demands, in order to design new policies that guarantee the right to protection, care, reparation and guarantee of non-repetition. The improvement of observation, for the perception of the new forms and profiles of women in violent quarters, and in the presence of them, to act quickly. Keeping attention and help services for any form of machista that opposes violence, improving and adjusting, with the repairing view, within the scope of the jurisdiction of each organization. A program to encourage women's power, and to assist the prevention of violence among young men, as essential tools are to prevent future violence. To preserve and stabilize the program of equality in the life of this place, to fight against the increase of differences in the weak condition of certain female factors. To continue the crisis of COVID-19 examining the poorness of women and the impact of damage so that they can be designed by specific aid activities. To insert the genus view, to the extent of the reduction of employments, incomes, and other negative effects of crisis, which have more influence on women, and from the machicatrated states of violence that are obstacles. To require co-working and co-ordination between the organizations, to ensure the means, and to influence all necessary undertakings within the limits of their jurisdiction. We also call the eucalyptic society feminist movement in order to preserve the mental violence against women on account of the day of Deletement. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was eight o'clock in the afternoon.
