ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, "My brother the Magnificent Subjugation of the Computors of the Society, made to the Chief Economics of Economy, patience, and Environmental Department, concerning the quality of the Durong Air." Miss Magnifier, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u1	Good morning, the head of the legislative table, those who sit at table. Good morning, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Welcome. Not long ago, the town of Duranggo sent a brief message to the media to inform them of the bad quality of the air in this town and in a district. This anxiety message was announced in a press conference, due to a direct inquiry from the City Council, and not previously opposed to the administrative institutions of the environment and the health world. In our opinion, instances in the state of safety must be the first to warn us of such situations. In that report, Durango's Town insisted that he would take care of the Eukong, on the one hand, of not having managed the state of environmental environmental conditions with the quality of air and the presence of vencene, and on the other hand, to question the work made by the teams of the technical professional professionals in the Environmental Department. On the other hand, it's been established recently that they had made a meeting with the representatives of the Basque Environmental Department, Durango, and Iural City City, and of the Mankomuni of Durang Bay. Egoera hau kontuan izanik, we'll ask you a question. Because recently the City Council of Durango sends an alarmist message to the media, warning of the poor air quality that is detected in this municipality and in part of the region. This message of concern for air quality was made known at a press conference as a result of a study commissioned by the City Council itself directly and, apparently, without having been previously opposed to the competent bodies in the field of environment and health. In our view, we believe that in a situation of risk, obviously to health, they must be the first to be warned in any kind of situation. In this appearance, Durango City Council initially insisted on holding the Basque Government responsible for not managing the environmental situation regarding air quality and benzene indicators, as well as questioning the work carried out by the Basque Government's team of environmental professionals. It is also noted that there has recently been a meeting between representatives of the Environment Department of the municipalities of Durango, Iurreta and the Durangaldea Commonwealth. Al morto de todas statuses cuesces, chief physician, quiero hacerle est pregunta: In Durangra, considering the management, investments, and measures, what is the rating of the bureau around the quality of the air that is breathing in Durango? I ask: taking into account the investments, management, all the measures implemented in the County of Durangaldea to date, what is the assessment made by the Department of Counselor Arantxa Tapia on the air quality that is breathed in Durango? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u2	Thank you, Miss Magnifier. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all presidents, chiefs, and members of the law. The Cordordo, it must be very clear, and without doubt that the quality of Durant and the air of his country and the site is suitable, and that there is no danger to the people, though voices have extended it. And before going into any question, as well as the work protocols that have been used and carried out over these years, I want to make it clear that air quality in Durango and its environment is good, and that no threat or risk to the health of the population in the environment is detected. After two months of uneasiness and uncertainty in Durango, to answer your question, I should like to make a little stew, and how it was done. At the end of the year, at the end of 2017, the zenean levels were detected in a district of Durange, and though the average of 5 micrograms of a cubic subway predicted by regulations was not exceeded, the Euscal Autonomy was decided to do something and study it thoroughly. On this account, a herd was formed specially for this purpose: A neighboring person, another man from the Public Medical Department, and a specialist from the Basque Country University. And from whence came this degree of infection, and examined the source, he examined it in a very strong and detailed manner. After this profound examination of the sources, it was decided where it was, and I shall say more particularly that it was on the gyre of the pattern already extended by polyestio. And although this did not occur in the European BREF documents, it was decided to examine it and to put the measures to overcome it. And it was reported to the Council of Durangot, even to the Public Health, to other autonomous communities, and even to the manufacturing and peoples who gave this infection. A co-worker's system was created, and as two companies were the source of this kind, some kind of infection, some of which have been placed in that company by direct measurements and made an investment of 1,7 million euros. That investment was finished in 2019 and already started, all this, all that sizes, two companies in 2020, that is, this year in February. And now it's time for us to go through the tracking campaign. I mean, we measured that there was infection, where it came from, where it came from, put correct measurements, and now we need to see if these measures are enough. And now, in November, a campaign is planned. Why November, even though the measurements were completed in February? Because in November, the highest level of infection is due to the weather problem. So now, in November, it will be measured out what is going on, and those places will be examined, if they are to be given new measures, or if they are to be searched, if they are to be found to require more sites, and the measures will be made. But from 2017 to 2017, all the necessary measures have been made, and the measures and investments which are to be corrected in these two companies have been established. Now in November, when the measurements are over, they will also be told. There was a meeting, as you have mentioned, to make it known to Durango, to the Iururite, and to the commons of the Mankom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the members of the Maddalen Irina Enquet team to the president, in front of the recent events that are being held in the pandemia's context." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u5	Mrs. President, Congressman, good morning. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. I'm not going to say this in the world, but there's only one parliament around us that can't be able to study the measures taken by the government. So let's take advantage of these four minutes. The COVID-19a is leaving us very sensitive data for the past few days, I'd say in the last few weeks, but we're worried about what's going on in the next few days. This is why we have agreed upon the demand of private care for the people, when collective care is demanded of them, and reduced to a narrower measure. But your government has left most of the weights in the community. A restrictive measure is now necessary. We may perhaps have to submit some to the details we have lately seen; and perhaps we must take even more strict measures, but I think they are not enough. It seems that eight months have gone by and the rate of infection and the death rates are the highest in the world. Therefore, restrictive measures are not enough. We must invest in health and public health, in primary care in Osakidetza. To say that there are no doctors is no excuse; people have to be cared for, because people are feeling unattended, waiting for results from the RCP, with what that means and that brings in some cases as well. We have to invest in public health, because tracking systems have begun to get overwhelmed. I think we have to stick strictly to the recommendations of the European Centre for Disease Control, because we do not do so either by defining who is a contact or in isolation periods. Let us analyse well according to that criterion where and how the contagions occur. It can't be that we're the only place in the world where the contagions mostly occur either at home or in the bar. Let us broaden the focus and better analyse contacts in workplaces, in public transport, in schools, in universities, and take very concrete measures, very concrete measures and very strict measures. We need more trackers, more personnel in primary care to avoid neglecting what is not COVID, to better care for COVID, to try to keep hospitals from collapsing. Primary care is crucial. We must invest more in health, Mr Urkullu, we have been telling you for many years and of course insistently in recent months. "Y planemos planes serious, para ayudar a los secoras que estendo, para ayudores to the mouth. Yesterday, after the guest incident in the sector, I had a chance to meet several people in the sector and I told them I understood that maybe they needed help now. The answer was this: it was a long time ago, and now it's too late for a long time. All this, Mr Urkullu, is the responsibility of your Government. That is why I ask you to act, because not taking necessary health measures for fear of damaging the economy, ends up damaging the economy and health, health and the economy. The citizens must be well informed, with transparency, because it is one of the main measures to face the pandemia to strengthen public health. And with a proper health attention, clear information. That's why it's important that you explain things here. It's supposed to be Mrs. cider, but this crisis is a multiple, it's not just a crisis of health, we also have an economic and social crisis and your last responsibility is to report about them. We're asking for what you ask in other places. And finally, Mr. Urkullu, yes, another state is required. We can't do it every time, just to look after the villagers, because we often stay behind, the rest of us. We have to make decisions here and there. This country has shown it, and has known how to give perfect answers in difficult times, and will now do it with the decisions we and ourselves have made here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u7	Congresswoman, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. I'm trying to start this by hating what happened in France today. Even to condemn Bilbon last night, and to condemn him to it. Mrs. Irriart, you mentioned your context on your question, and I think it's essential to take possession of this context in order to make a proper estimate of the situation. First of all, for the time being, we are facing a virus that has no vaccination. There is no eternal scientific evidence here, in Germany, in France, or in the world's organization of health, or even in the control organization of the sick in Europe. Anyway, we have to make decisions, the context of choices, too. Each of us, yes, must decide what attitude it is to be in front of this patient. It is for each of us to observe the measures imposed upon us. This is the first step: care for one's own self, and care for all of us. The administration must also make decisions and measures. These measures are taken for the preservation of health, and for this purpose the most efficacious health system must be secured. It's a Basque-point community in an investment for health, in case and contact search, Mrs. Irries. We've taken measures to help the most damaged sectors. We've been the first to form support for the ERTUs, to start the COVID fund, or to guarantee the most injured sectors' scholarships and absolutations. That's all self-engineine. So you don't mind our self-portraits, Mrs. Irrez, who are the organizations of our self-portraits that give us the opportunity to respond to the challenge. Last Friday, Mrs. Irart, we had a meeting. You asked me to take strict measures for that meeting. It is clear that the measures we have taken here have been the most severe in the state, although our condition is not the worst. But that's no consolation. We were the first to accept the state of the crisis, the 13th of March and the 18th of August. We were the first to ask for alarm, to take all the measures we can take. We've not only done it, we've done it with the cooperation of all the organizations in LABI, we've been in touch with the Spanish Government, always with the health authorities, and that's how we'll continue to do it. This isn't over, not at all. We're following the situation in the daytime, considering and calculating the measures, and even transcribing them to society. We're working together so that the transmission of the virus can be interrupted and influenced as little as possible, even in the economy area. The balance is in the presence of uncertainty and uncertainty. We can guarantee public health and economic health. You ask us for drastic measures. Our measures are the most drastic in the state, even if our situation is not the worst, but it is not comfort, I have been saying. We are following developments day by day and taking measures with the approval of the health authorities. There is collaboration with the State and between Basque institutions, and, given the lack of certainty and uncertainty, it is up to us to ensure a balance, it is up to us to guarantee public health, also economic and social health, and we will continue to do so. My assessment is that we are in a serious situation, of concern, of upward tension; that we have to continue to take action, and it is best to limit ourselves to what our bubble is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, smooth seams of Susana Corcuera, members of the Basque Socialists, made to the chief physician of Tourism, commerce, and commerce, and the influence of those bonds in the recovery of the sectors." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u9	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. A couple of days ago, the Councillor for Tourism, Commerce and Consumption appeared in this House to explain the strategic lines of his department and between these lines proposed the strategy in two phases: a first phase of resistance in which to implement measures to maintain economic activity, to maintain the jobs of the tourism, trade and hospitality sectors, and a second phase, after overcoming the health crisis, recovery, dynamism and impulse of the tourism, trade and hospitality sectors. Sectors that, on the other hand, result from those most affected by the measures being implemented in the fight against the expansion of the coronavirus. And we were also told by the advisor at the time about the need for a serious situation that these sectors are going through, with a 22% drop in sales in trade in the second quarter of 2020, with a 63% drop in the turnover of the second quarter and also with a decrease in the entry of tourists in the Basque Country between July, August and September of 47%. That situation required a series of measures that were being implemented and to be implemented. One of them, he told us, was that of the so-called Bono Consumo, the Euskadi Tourism Bono and the Euskadi Bono Denda. An initiative that was also institutional, developed among the institutions, was a pioneering agreement in which Eudel also intervened and was also an agreement that was supported, consensual and involved by the tourism and trade sectors. And this initiative by the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption will have an availability of 5.7 million euros for its start-up, because an economic impact of 26 million euros is expected. And in view of this initiative, in particular of the consumer bonds, the Basque Socialists wanted to know, counselor, what is the assessment they make today of this initiative, on the one hand pioneering, which is also going to be launched immediately, and we wanted to know what their assessment was in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. To answer, Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mrs Corcuera, for your question, and the first thing I have to say is that the pandemic caused by COVID-19 puts us in a changing environment, with great uncertainty, and in which it is necessary to have the flexibility to be able to adapt measures to the needs of the situation with agility and with the greatest possible consensus, both with the sector and with the institutions. Well, Euskadi Tourisme Bono and Euskadi Bono Denda are products of a long work carried out jointly by all the institutions: Basque Government, outlaws, the three capitals and Eudel, and also coordinated with all the representatives of the hospitality and tourism sector. The bonds, as you have said, are part of the resistance plan and are aimed at revitalizing the sectors most affected by the crisis and contribute to promoting and encouraging the consumption of families in the neighbourhoods of our cities, towns and neighbourhoods. In total, almost EUR 9 million will be injected: EUR 5 million in trade and EUR 3.7 million in tourism. Of these amounts, the most important part is provided by the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption with the 5.7 million that you have mentioned. And we have a forecast that this could generate a mobilisation of some EUR 26 million. And as you know, last Tuesday was the end of the deadline for the establishments to adhere to the bond lines, but in my appearance last Wednesday I already advanced to them certain decisions that we had taken regarding the two bonds, that of tourism and that of trade. In the case of the Trade Bond, the deadline for companies to join has ended today, since we received a large volume of applications at the last moment, we decided to extend that deadline two more days. It has had almost 3,000 memberships of commercial establishments. The territorial distribution of these accessions is quite consistent with the demographics of our community: in Álava 327, 10%; in Bizkaia, 1,500, 50%; and in Gipuzkoa, 1,150, 39%. Capitals have concentrated 34% of the total, and, for example, Vitoria-Gasteiz, 72% of all the territory of Alava, thus achieving an equitable territorial distribution with the population. In the tourism and hospitality sector, the situation is different, as it is highly conditioned by restrictions on mobility not only between municipalities and autonomous communities, but also between countries. That is why the seven institutions involved in this Euskadi Bono Turismo have decided to continue with the bonus, in coordination with the sector as well. And, therefore, let's delay him. And the companies' memberships will extend until November and will expand their use until May 2021. As I said, these bonds are an important measure of the resistance plan that this department has put in place to support the tourism, trade and consumer sector in this crisis. A plan of more than EUR 30 million in aid, subsidies and other measures for the maintenance of employment and activity for the duration of the crisis of COVID. This is what we are doing, but we are not staying here, we are aware that new measures need to be implemented. We therefore continue to work on these new rescue and coordinated and consensus measures to tackle this situation, from a much broader perspective, which will enable us to reach the most needy sectors. With all the possibilities offered by the current scenario, we are already working at an inter-institutional table, in new support and awareness campaigns, in joint adaptations and, above all, in real governance in partnership with the sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u12	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Forth point on the theme list: "I'm asking you, "Mikon hating" together with the members of the Podemos-IU team made for the president about the measurements to be taken before the new alarm condition." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, congressmen. Lehendakari jauna, we are already in that famous second wave. Once the new state of alarm has been approved, it seems to us that it is more important, if possible, to manage measures that, since our own self-government, lead to the implementation of the Basque Government to deal with this second wave. That is why we would like to know whether you consider the measures taken by your Government in the face of this second wave to be sufficient and appropriate, taking into account the situation we have. We would like to know whether you consider these measures sufficient to protect both public health and to avoid the economic and social impact on people's lives in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u14	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hernandez. I think the measures taken are quite enough for the moment. Also, I believe that every day we must continue to examine the situation by considering the measures taken, and proposing new ones. This is our attitude. continuing the situation, close and narrow. I believe that the measures taken are sufficient for the moment. We will continue to monitor the situation in order to take the necessary new measures. We are faced with a serious situation of concern for upward tension and we have to continue monitoring, daily assessment with a health, economic, social and emotional perspective. I reiterate my call to limit our relationships to our family bubble and stay at home as long as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u17	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. We believe that, to some extent, you have not taken advantage of the months of truce that the virus gave us, after the first wave, to ensure the minimum impact on this second wave. Osakidetza's personnel are essential not only for the treatment of infected people, but also for the control of the pandemic itself. It makes it difficult for us to understand how we are going to face this second wave if we are listening to doctors, nurses, etc. saying that they are exhausted because of lack of material and human resources. Furthermore, it appears that the responsibility for contagion is overburdened only on the individual behaviours of citizens and not on their conditions of vulnerability to the virus or on the risk situations they live in. The focus has been on places of leisure and restrictions have been put in place, which we support and which are necessary, but at the same time we are faced with a lack of important measures in public transport. People have to travel to their places of work or study without distances or without reducing the means to facilitate such distances. You have ended up implementing a perimeter confinement that contradicts, in our opinion, what Mr. Garitano, appointed by you as coordinator of the Pandemic Monitoring and Control Programme, stated just 10 days ago that these types of measures had not proved their effectiveness. There is, therefore, a certain degree of improvisation and changing messages, a product not only of the dynamic situation of the pandemic. Above all, we are concerned at the moment that, together with the exceptional measures for the control of mobility and social contact, which, as I say, we can support, it is also necessary to introduce exceptional measures so that these restrictions do not lead to a blow to the subsistence and the economy of people, starting with the most vulnerable. We do not understand some statements, for example, by the Mayor of Bilbao, who said about homeless people that this time what is forbidden is the transit from 11 to 6, so it will be necessary to make the Municipal Police understand that these people are not in transit but sleeping. We believe that what must be guaranteed to them is a worthy place. Mr Lehendakari, we can share that the false debate between life and the economy must be avoided. We believe that precisely in order to avoid this debate, the measures for the control of the pandemic must be accompanied by measures to ensure that the population has guaranteed decent living conditions. And those are the exceptional measures that we miss together with the exceptional measures of control, for example, of mobility, to control the pandemic. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u18	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Hernandez, responsibility or responsibility for society, no; responsibility and responsibility for each of us and ourselves. And each of us and ourselves make society. In any case, as an institutional head, I will tell you that we have taken measures: to reduce the groups to six people, to limit the hours to 50%, to reduce the attendance at social events, to close the hotel shop at 23 hours, to ban the activity in txokos and societies, to close parks and gardens at 23 hours, or to suspend the competitions of school and non-professional sport, to avoid mobility between municipalities and also with other communities. On Friday I asked the President of the Spanish Government for a statement of the state of alarm. This proposal was supported by 11 communities. Communities in which you too have responsibility for government, Mr Hernández. It was approved by the Council of Ministers on Sunday. The next day, this Monday, he again convened the LABI to present a decree with preventive measures and special measures of action. Prevention and action. We've expanded the network of tracking people, Mr. Hernández. We've expanded the UCI beds. We performed the highest number of PCR tests in the state. We have secured the stock of sufficient sanitary supplies, Mr Hernández. Economic and social measures (COVID fund, shock plan with aid to sectors and people most in need, granting guarantees) are in place. We are doing all this from institutional responsibility. We have taken all measures in an area of collaborative governance with the relevant institutions, working together. This is for me the meaning of LABI, which is an advisory council, but where we analyze each of the measures and adopt them in a consensual way. We are always appreciating the effectiveness of these measures, their complementarity with others in force, their impact and their cost. In any case, the best measure begins, as I say, on its own, by individual and collective responsibility and commitment. We analyze new measures, such as the greatest limitation of night activity, reducing physical or sports activity, non-in-person education in higher education, or establishing more severe confinements. And we try to avoid this last decision that turned out so hard in the first wave. Given the lack of clear scientific evidence, because this is what we cannot forget, that we are faced with a lack of clear scientific evidence, the lack of certainty about the vaccine, the uncertainty about the duration of the pandemic... it is up to us to seek a balance that guarantees health, that will standardize the citizen's life to the maximum and maintain economic activity. As with many diseases, we have to adjust the medication, that is, adjust the measures that allow us to continue living and working. No one has the formula, neither in Germany, nor in France, nor in Euskadi. And we know that the last alternative is to close everything and confine the entire population. It would be the simplest thing. We must try to avoid it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, as Charles Iturgai, the popular Group Angulo Euscal, the member of the Ciudadans, a member of the President, concerning not keeping the confession and redemption of Terrorism Biktimei." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. My first words also have to be, on the part of our group, to condemn the savage attacks of jihadist terrorism committed yesterday in our neighbouring country, in France, and to condemn, of course, also the riots full of irrationality that took place last night in Bilbao. Mr. President, twelve years ago, and I'd like to remember that number and that date twelve years ago, and that's why I insist on having the Twin Court of Terror and the Reformation Act. But today we all know that at this moment this law doesn't work. And also, victims are suffering humiliation these days. Horrexegatik, niri gustatuko litzaidake gogoratzea ere bai, Mr Urkullu, that the predictions of a law, when not fulfilled, is called non-compliance, as you know. I'm not talking here about criminal law, I'm talking about an approved law, as I told you before, twelve years ago, which I predicted, I remember, and I'm going to read it to you: "Compensate the forgetfulness, invisibility and misunderstanding felt by the victims." And for that, he proclaimed the right to truth, memory, dignity and justice. What is happening today, for example, is that in the world of culture, by setting an example, in literature, in cinema, in television, we see series, books, programs, films that put those who have never condemned ETA – by the way, sitting here – before the mirror of democracy. But, instead, on our streets or on our own television, on this earth, situations and actions also proliferate that are violating the law of the victims. And I am talking, you know, about tributes to terrorists who have served their sentence, and who are tributes that humiliate the victims. Or I speak of ETB in the service of, every day, misrepresentation. Misrepresentation of memory and truth about terrorism here in Euskadi. Or I'm also talking about interviews whitening the past of murderers, like Josu Ternera's. I am talking about documentaries of their own or others silence the victims of terrorism. I am talking about exhibitions such as that of Jon Bienzobas in Galdakao, or a few days ago in Basurto, about police torture, which feed the thesis of the two comparable violences in Euskadi. I mean, I'm not talking about criminal law, I'm talking about non-compliance. I repeat, Mr Urkullu, lehendakari jauna. And that's why I want to ask you the question: How do you rate the failure, twelve years later, of the Basque Law of Recognition and Reparation to Victims of Terrorism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u22	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Iturgaiz jauna, terroraz ari gara eta berriz esango dut lehenengo galderan esandakoa, oraingo honetan gasteleraz. I strongly condemn the acts of terrorism and the threats that have also occurred in the French State. And in the same way, taking advantage also of the fact that we are talking about terrorism, I radically condemn the acts that took place yesterday in Bilbao, because it is also terrorism that is practiced in this way to attack what is the well-being of citizens. Nevertheless, the confession to the victims of terrorism and the execution of the law has not been given, sir, has not been given. As you know, we have the Basque Council at the Twin Court of Terrorism, and this council has not given us any information of the watering. El Consejo Vasco de Particupion de Víctimas del Terrorismo nos ha ha haklegar a nsostros nitranción en el emotionalo que aim. The government programme, which is my responsibility, reflects the express commitment that the victims are and will be a priority in this legislature. I assure you that it has been and that it will continue to be. Our commitment is strict compliance with the Basque Law of Recognition and Reparation for Victims of Terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u25	Lehendakari jauna, as the Council does not send it to him, is sent to him by my political group. Because what I just told you, what I just told you, is what we are seeing and living all the citizens on this earth. Therefore, one does not have to accept the denial or ignorance of what others tell him. You also live here in Euskadi, you see what I'm telling you, you presence the ongi etorri, you see the Euskal Telebista, you see the humiliations to the victims one day yes and another as well. You and your political party and the Socialist Party said about the development of the law of the victims twelve years ago, which I told you earlier, in your government program recognized that they are pending the development of that law. That is to say, it is urgent that this law be developed, but it is essential, above all, that the law be complied with. And that requires an active position, an active position to lead every day the defense of truth, memory, dignity...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Your time is up, thank you. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, you have asked me for an assessment, and I accept what is my responsibility. I have told you before that our commitment is strict compliance with the Basque Law of Recognition and Reparation for Victims of Terrorism. Over the past few years, policies for the care of victims of terrorism by the Basque Government have been geared towards meeting this objective. Thus, the Victims and Human Rights Directorate processes an annual average of 45 aid files for psychological assistance, tax exemptions or other needs arising from the terrorist attack suffered by the victim. In addition, the Basque Government provides personalized assistance and support to more than 100 victims. We also have two fundamental instruments for the proper development of the law: the Basque Council for the Participation of Victims of Terrorism, which is a framework for discreet, fruitful and constructive work that deserves a positive assessment by the victims; and we also have the annual call for grants in which victims' associations participate. The Basque Government, on the other hand, maintains a close and fluid institutional relationship with all associations of victims of terrorism in the Spanish State. This is the exercise of our responsibility. Now, you ask me for an assessment. You have quoted the tributes, the ongi etorri. You know there hasn't been a warrant forbidding them, Mr. Iturgaiz. Justice must determine whether or not such a violation exists. In any case, I support the declaration adopted or the resolutions adopted by this Parliament and reiterate the ethical deficit involved in organising these acts. A documentary has also been cited, in addition to interviews, a documentary issued on ETB. Well, look, I agree that it is reprehensible that a document, or that a documentary reminiscent of the end of ETA does not capture the views of the victims of terrorism. It is also true that a greater balance of voices and views would have been preferable. In any case, I insist and reiterate the commitment of the Basque Government to strict compliance with the Act on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question of Jason Aguirre Garitagondia EH Collectors to the President, the nomination of the Supreme Director of EIB." Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. You proposed to be commander of Andoni de la Torre EIB in the United States of October 13, with proposals from the Chief of the Culty of Bingiens. By what criterion did you name it?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Aguirre, we've been through the word about the law as soon as we got the nomination of the First Director of EIB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u33	Yes, you did, and that day when the journalists questioned Zpiria about the nomination, he replied that he had a good opinion of managing EAJ and PSE, and therefore the whole majority of this legislature. Totally legal. Es decir, a la pregunta de por qué se elge a persona, la respuesta fue: "Poe porque posses." Se acabó la argumentición. And, indeed, as you have said, it is: 'tis lawful and lawful. No doubt about it. The majority will be director of the Andon side of the EITB. But this is quite contrary to what you preach, because you hold out one hand for the agreements, and with the other hand choose the EIB Director in a little disorder. You say you will not pass the rhodillos over us, and you use your whole majority to make all of your nominations, EITB, the Board of Schools... Neighborhood, you're talking about it, and we're hearing about it from the media. Say one thing and do another. That's the will or ability you have for the bargain. This is just another example. You don't want any arrangement, you don't need it, and that's it. However, I think we have a right and obligation to explain, and therefore I ask you again: What condition is it to be Director of EIB? What's the difference between the gentlemen? What experience has he in seeing? Does she know EITB, EITB today? Does he know how to make Euskuke? That's what everybody asks, and we don't know what to say. Is he a Basque fan? Is he independent? Is his entire professional career independent person in charge of political nominations? Could a person, with his right hand and your counsel, be independent? In 2013, in the name of Iturbe, EAJ the spokesman, there is no occasion for him to do so in the words which Josephba Egibare said, this is transscription: "We have not chosen a candidate for EAJ from the Journal Party. We didn't do that. We said that from the first moment we had to be family people because of the respect due to all professionals, and also because they proved that in the last few years and decades they know how to work well, and no one else knows better how to get a company. And we bet and we do." What happened? Why has an EAJ member chosen now? You're backing up. Mr. Zupiria said right, you have the whole majority. He'll be on the side, but he'll be the director who's had the most opposed vote in EIB history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Aguirre, let's not be stupid. Persistent? Persistent with who? Between whom? Do you think when you select a person like that, it would be possible not only to have a little more contact with people than you're with when you're in the mood? According to the Law of EIB, and according to the change of '98, according to the third part, which regulates the organization of the EIB, and regulates the control of the legislature, the EITB organs are two; The Administration Council on the one hand and the director on the other. It's determined on article 16. The roles of the principal director. In the fourth section, the court's procedure is to accept the principal director, that the Parliament will choose from a proposition of fun, and at least that at least we must get a half plus a vote. That's exactly what was done yesterday on this parliament, and the decision was agreed here. So, Eusko MUKM, as I said before, and the president did a word about the law as soon as we got the nomination of the First Director of EIB. I don't know, you answered the questions you've been asking yesterday. You answered it yourself at the whole meeting yesterday. So I don't know why you're asking me these questions today. The discretion of appointing the principal director, imposes laws, Mrs. Aguirre, and this law is allowed here. And I want to remind you, Mrs. Aguirre, that during the last eight years you've been able to change this law. "You have not done it, you have not done it; therefore you have accepted the judgments which are received in the law. Since we learned the nomination proposal for Andoni, more than criteria, opinions have been heard. My opinions about a person who hasn't started are astonishing. Those aren't opinions, they're prejudices. We've been considering the works of the parliamentary Parliament for EIB's future proposal. As to the rest, these challenges are detected: digitalization, new management model, renovation of the contract, or increase the visual industry. Andoni's professional career and range of knowledge is suitable for challenges, media and journalist services, and has been in communication with institutions and has an experience of business management. In any case, this legislature will have a chance through the EIB Control Committee and the Administration Board to appreciate its behavior. Finally, I want to use this opportunity to thank Iturbe and his team. I want to thank and thank them for the job they've done these eight years for EITB and the visual sector and the commitment they've shown. Mr. President, thank you. The seventh point on the theme list: "Ask me, find Casanova Alonso EH collect members of the team for the second vice president and Company Chief of Eplegus, about the business of the Port of the Saint-Observation." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u36	Good morning, all of you, and especially the delegation of the harbour officials at Bilbo, who are with us today. We know that they meant to make the motion today, but because of the reductions that are in force they could not, but they are still here and we know that they are still fighting for their rights in the harbour. We confirm that we're with you and a hug. On the 9th of October the dockers started a strike. So they've been on strike for about twenty-one days. Their proclamations, common: the instability of the work, ending with temporary provisionalness, fulfilling the contract of labor, the security of labor to avoid accidents, and so on. The usual proclamations of syndicate or brillical Arlo. Companion has been answered by excessive service, 100 percent to apply, continuous mediatic attack and temporary personnel, because they took temporary discharges, recomprisals. They took him back, but there was de facto and 100 out of port for a week. Is there any opinion of you in front of this business conflict and this racket in front of the aggressive responses from the company? What if he's going to do something?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u37	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u38	Yes, with your permission. One of the work department's missions is to guarantee the strike rights of all personnel. It's a fundamental right, and our laws protect it. Among these functions there is not a minimum of service in the assemblies made at ports of general interest, as in this case, but when the right to strike is violated. And there's a complaint connected with this case in our section and he's traducing the file. I don't have any more information, because I don't have to have it, because inspection is forced to silence. In any case, the RedMork defends social conversation and collective negotiation, because it's the best instrument to guarantee worthy jobs conditions. And this is also a purpose of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u40	The truth is, Mrs Mendia, that your department has not said anything about this conflict to date either in public or in private. But Mrs Tapia's department does, on several occasions, and then we will refer to it, because it has done so in a very aggressive way towards the demands and attitude of the unions. Yesterday the dismissal of 56 people in Alestis was announced, and yesterday, in Gestamp, another labor dispute in which the Basque Government is present unilaterally supporting the attitude of the company, because it was also present, but through the police, in this case, who ordered to prevent part of the union delegation from accessing the hotel where the negotiations were taking place. Those of Alestis have been thrown out for having a good agreement, and those of Gestamp de Matricería Deusto want to throw out for having a good agreement, and these people want to squeeze the nuts for having a good agreement; otherwise speaking, for having decent work, that decent work to which their Government claims to aspire and protect. But in practice it doesn't happen that way. Look, in the port there is a chain of subcontracts, companies have an ETT to paradoxically employ fixed workers; another ETT for eventual workers, which are not so eventual, because they have been doing this task for 12 years, and have now put another ETT for ancillary loading and unloading tasks. But these companies have a problem: they have 300 people, 300 workers with class consciousness, with social awareness and high level of union, who are preventing them from developing this neoliberal nightmare that is being implanted in the port. And your Government has acted, your Government has taken sides in favour of the companies and in favour of the precariousness that they are developing: Mrs Tapia, in unacceptable statements that we have known today, places all the responsibility for what is happening in the workers, who are precisely those who are protecting decent work. And Mr Barkala, in other unacceptable statements, says that there is no god approaching the port of Bilbao, which is a scourge. Who are you referring to as a tear? The workers and their struggle for rights? Does Mrs. Mendia share these statements? Every time there is a labour conflict in this country, we have been shown that the only way to defend decent work today, the only way to improve wages, to improve stability, to improve agreements, is to fight and fight through strikes. Every time there is a strike, his Government, his Government, which is not two governments, which is a single government, goes out systematically to say that hostages are taken, that it is not the time, that it is a political strike, that things have to be done differently. If your Government does nothing but criticize those who do things to create decent work, what is their real attitude? What is your real attitude and why do you slip your responsibility into these kinds of situations and when you talk and when you open your mouth is to consistently align with the employer? Look, here's an opportunity, if you want to show a different will and a different attitude in order to get out of Eplegu for the workers, and not systematically for the patriarchal as you have hitherto done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u41	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u42	Mr Casanova, the Rules of Procedure of this House are very clear with regard to the oral questions, and they are very concrete. And the specific question you asked me for this plenary session is what the government is going to do in the face of the attacks – which you are taking for granted – on the right to strike in the labour dispute that is taking place in the port of Santurtzi. And the concrete answer is that the Labour Inspectorate is dealing with the existing complaint in relation to this labour dispute. That's what we're supposed to do. I can't give you any more details because, as I said in the first round, I don't have to have them, nor do I as a counselor, nor you as a parliamentarian. What I am telling you is that this department ensures that the fundamental right to strike is guaranteed, that is our role. And another thing is the issues that you have slipped into this question that go beyond the Rules of Procedure of the House. They concern decent employment and the position of this Government in the face of labour disputes. I can tell you that this department has sat at each and every one of the tables to which it has been referred, in every labor dispute in which it has been required. We have done so both at the request of companies and at the request of their workers. And I can tell you that in every conversation they have always been moved the same: we intermediate when asked both sides, and only then. Because what this government does not do, and should not do any government, is to seek to replace the most powerful instrument in the protection of labour rights that has existed in history, which is in collective bargaining. And no political party should do that either. And it is true that collective bargaining has been devalued by the last labour reform that we have undergone, which a large majority of this House want to replace with a statute for workers in line with the needs of this twenty-first century. But as true as that is that since that collective negotiation and from social dialogue it is as more and better progress has been made in all labor conquests. This department celebrates and supports every achievement in this area. This week we've seen the deal between the pelotaris and a ball company. Just three weeks ago we saw how the sectoral metal agreement in Gipuzkoa also found a solution. There are those who like the result most, and less, because they believe that a better agreement could have been reached, but today there are tens of thousands of workers in Gipuzkoa protected by convention, after ten years without it. And I hope that a solution can also be found in the greenhouse conflict, and I hope that it will be in terms of quality employment, as I have heard many times. Innovation is needed, dialogue and concertation are needed, and equality is needed. And I am convinced that in the spirit of those on strike today, in addition to protecting their right – in what they will have with our department – it is also seeking an innovative solution of dialogue and full equality. They'll always find us there too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, about the development, the development of Economics, the progress of Economics, the development of the Ciudadans, the environmental department, the complications of Brexitas for Euskade." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, or perhaps fortunately, not everything is health and economics. The world, as it continues to move forward and continues to pose other processes to which we must also pay attention, and I am referring to the complicated and problematic Brexit process, which will irremediably end up affecting me individually. I am aware that in the previous legislature there were frequent debates on this subject, but at that time it is true that the situation was quite different from what we are seeing today, because it was considered a remote possibility that this process would be carried out in an unagreed manner. However, without going any further, a few days ago British Prime Minister Boris Johnson claimed that the United Kingdom was heading for a Brexit without agreement. It is also true that the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, has said that efforts are being made to reach an agreement, but she says that "not at any price". Finally, that makes us think that the possibility of an agreement or an unagreed Brexit, of an abrupt Brexit, is a possibility that is very important today, there are many possibilities, and therefore it is necessary to put on the table the consequences that would have an abrupt Brexit for Euskadi on 31 December, that is, almost the day after tomorrow, taking into account that the United Kingdom ranks third in the ranking of countries to which Euskadi exports. That is why we ask the Commissioner for Economic Development what consequences she expects to have for Euskadi an unagreed Brexit and what concrete measures the Basque Government has taken or intends to take to reduce that impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u45	Thank you, Mr. Gil. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u46	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Gil, on the 31st of January 2020, the United Kingdom came out of European Union, and this transient period of December 31st is over. You have to keep negotiating while you're doing this. Eta berriena aztertzeagatik, bost elkarrizketa-erronda egin will say orarain art, éta azkeneko Europar Kontseiluaren ondoren –ora of egun gutxi egin zena, 15ean – oraindik badaude hiru gune izugarrizko eztabaida exitzen dutenak. There are three key areas of disagreement at the moment: the rules of fair play in economic and commercial terms, the governance of the agreement and fishing, which also affects us directly. If for the first days of November, that is, next week, there is no agreement, it will be impossible for the United Kingdom to leave with agreement on the 1st of 2021. This situation is getting closer and the possibility of an unagreed departure from the United Kingdom is becoming more and more real. The prospect for us is also hard, for the whole of the European Union, also for Euskadi. You said it was the third market. Indeed, 9.2 of Euskadi's exports go to the UK. In 2019 there were 2,325 million. And there are 608 Basque companies that usually export to the UK, and there are 105 Basque deployments in the UK. However, aware of this situation, it is not that we are now going to take action, but that Euskadi has prepared for any scenario and a number of measures have been taken over the years. In 2017 the Brexit Commission was set up, led by the lehendakari, where the department I run is also present. We opened an office of Basque Trade & Investment there in London, to serve both the industrial fabric and the citizens who live there, students and any other kind of people who live and work there. An information tool has been launched on the Brexit.eus website, where all information is provided and detailed monitoring is carried out. There is an on-line self-diagnosis tool for those companies that need to know what measures they need to take and, in addition, from the Basque Institute of Finance and Elkargi, a funding line of €25 million has been made available to address the difficulties these companies may have. Then, our companies are already ready. Not that they're not, they're prepared for that eventual situation. However, the path that this hypothetical situation can take and is getting closer and closer and closer, I think it is unknown throughout the European Union, and we will have to confront it, in addition to these measures, with some more adapted to the situation, if it finally occurs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Gil, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u48	Yeah. Thank you, Madam President. I note in your reply that practically the measures that have been taken are those that were before, that is, when we were working on the hypothesis of an agreed Brexit. I would simply like to emphasise to you that, since the current situation is new and, moreover, it will harm us much more than before, it would also be a matter of urgency to adopt specific measures, special measures to protect companies not for a Brexit... , not like the measures you have mentioned, but for an abrupt Brexit, for an unagreed Brexit. Because it is going to have a significant impact, both on people and on businesses, on goods. And I don't think we should be waiting until December 31st. And let's see whether or not the deal is going on or not, actually. I think we should take the time and start thinking, given the very high probability that this unagreed Brexit will occur, take action, anticipate us as soon as possible with special measures to protect the companies and the people of that unagreed Brexit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u49	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mrs. Tapia, to answer, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u50	Mr. Gil, it must be said that he studied our measures and our forecasts on two scenarios, that is, the agreement and the agreement. So the measures we've prepared and our companies are prepared for these two scenarios, not only if it's a deal, but even if it's not a deal. And, for example, we were talking about the port of Bilbao before. Well, our ports are also prepared for that circumstance, in the two scenarios: where the goods must be taken out and introduced, in case of agreement, and in case of non-agreement. And all this must also be done not only in our organs, but also in conjunction with other actions that the State has to carry out. Therefore, we are prepared. One hundred percent? Never, since, the stage we can be facing is going to be absolutely unknown. But I want to insist, we are working on both scenarios and our companies have prepared for the eventual exit without agreement and for which we hope it will occur, which is with agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, by David Soso Rodríguz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU team for Economic development, patience, and environmental development, about the development of the Capital Danger. " Mr. Soto. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u52	Yeah. Madam Counsellor, as you well know – and last week in the Committee on Economic Development I have already asked you the question – there is a result of the 2020 agreement, the budgetary agreement, an item referring to a venture capital fund, or to the extension of the current venture capital fund, Ezten, with an allocation of EUR 10 million from the budgets of the Basque Institute of Finance, specifically aimed at the temporary taking of shares in viable Basque enterprises that may be affected by foreign group divestment operations or abrupt outflows of capital into family enterprises. It is true that this heading for this fund also includes a number of conditions for the perception of these economic quantities and that the Basque Government participates in them, and that these participating companies maintain the level of employment and the conditions of collective bargaining and prevent the closure of production plants in Euskadi. I can only say to you that we were surprised by the reply you gave us in the Commission that, as a result of the consequences of the COVID crisis, you had not found your department or the Basque Government at the time of implementing this heading, because we were told that there were other priorities. We find it surprising that this is the answer taking into account the permanent relocations that are taking place in Euskadi, also the result of that health crisis and the economic consequences arising from it. I therefore ask you the question: how is it possible that at this time of economic crisis and permanent relocations of companies, the Basque Government, or its department in particular, has not seen or seen the opportunity to make use of this venture capital fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u53	Thank you, Mr. Soto. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u54	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Soto, maybe last Friday I didn't explain it very well. I'll try and make it clear. In 2020 years, the risk capital association manages several tools, not just Enet Fund, but others. And in this sense, we have examined the problems which arise from the cause of COVID-19, and it must be said that, according to the consuls, examinations have been made during the 60th year and August. That is to say, until August 2020, until the end of August 2020, 60 different companies have been worked on, the impacts resulting from COVID-19 have been analysed, and a total of nine operations worth EUR 8 million have been carried out, involving nine companies worth EUR 8 million. Why? Because the venture capital funds that exist in that society can and have met those needs. However, that new fund that had been agreed upon with Elkarrekin Podemos has not been launched, it has been served from elsewhere. But I would also like to tell you that over the next few days this new fund will be able to be put into operation with those objectives. However, not because this fund is not working have we stopped caring for businesses. The operations that have arrived have been handled and these nine operations have been successfully implemented. Another thing, of which we also spoke last Friday, is the Finkatuz fund, which is different. And throughout the year there has been no operation. But I think they're different aspects. But not because those EUR 10 million agreed with Elkarrekin We may not have materialized into an ad hoc fund, which is not the Ezten fund, by the way, it is an ad hoc fund, a new fund. Because that fund has not materialized until now, we have not stopped caring for companies. I think it is an important element to point out right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Soto, down there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u56	Thank you. Thank you for the answer. In any case, from our group, we believe that, beyond the fact that other resources have actually been used to deal with situations that could have been encountered from your department in relation to participation in companies in crisis situations or in complicated situations but with interest on the part of the Basque Government in sustaining its activity, we believe that situations have also been given as it has been to contribute money from the Basque Government without any form of conditioning, and it has also been recently, and in amounts comparable to the 8 million you mentioned, and cannot be repeated. That is to say, the contribution of 8 million without avoiding the relocation of the productive activity of the enterprises is a practice that, from our point of view, does not favour the general interest or the maintenance of the productive activity in this country. Only, if any, tax domicile, in the cases in which it is appropriate. We believe that all the contributions made by the Basque Government in order to sustain the activities of companies in the Basque territory must always be subject to three specific requirements. One of them is the maintenance of industrial and productive activity in the territory of Euskadi itself; also the maintenance of jobs, and also that the Basque Government has at its disposal the decision-making capacity and the recovery of investment afterward and with certain deadlines. We believe that on many occasions this is not done by the Basque Government and should be done. In any case, we want to urge that this venture capital fund, as you mentioned, be put into practice, because in this situation of economic crisis arising from COVID, I do not think there are few opportunities to start up and equip companies in crisis with these ten million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u57	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u58	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Soto, just for commenting, of course, the Government, when working in crisis situations, is looking after them, both in areas and in companies, with a very clear protocol and making available to our companies the different resources that we have. Among them, venture capital funds, which are different from what can be grants or loan actions at certain times to make investments, such as Gauzatu programmes. In the case of grants and loans for certain companies and for actions to be carried out, they always involve the maintenance of employment, the non-location..., well, a lot of requirements, as you well know. In the case of venture capital, it is our investments in these companies to make them grow, to make them more exportable, so that an entrepreneur can have a longer way. And, in that regard, I would like to point out to you that nothing less than 80 companies at the moment have the participation of the Government, the participation of public venture capital funds, in carrying out that journey. But I think they're two different performances. Some are of a grant or loan type to make investments and grow, others are participations and others are attentions to companies in crisis. And I think we should be rigorous, you and we, in distinguishing between the instruments that we need to make available to companies according to their particular situation. That's what we intend to do. And, of course, that fund agreed with Elkarrekin We can be a reality before the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interregation by David Soso Rodríguz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU team made of economics and Ogas's chief department, budgets and abortions." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u60	Mr. Azpiazu, well, we'll talk about the same thing again. Two weeks ago I asked him an oral question on this matter and also in the committee that took place last week we were able to exchange views on this issue. Also yesterday, on the occasion of the modification of the single reading point that brought us from your department, we were also able to comment on the same thing. In any case, we believe that it is essential to have this debate because in the coming months it will be a central debate, and presumably also in the coming years. I am going to summarize my intervention basically, or I am going to reduce my intervention basically to three ideas. The first is the solution of an idea that we believe virtually all groups have assumed, and is that indebtedness is good, said in very plain and very simple words. It is true that in recent years not all the political groups represented here have verbalized that debt capacity is a necessary tool to deal with economic crisis processes, but it does seem obvious that right now all or virtually all groups have joined this new debt creed and not limit deficit capacity. In any case, it does seem to us that this opportunity to address the capacity of the Basque Government not to limit indebtedness and to deal with the economic crisis has to be done with several perspectives. Firstly, one of them has to be to release emergency budget items that allow for immediate reinforcement of public services, but this cannot be addressed – and it was mentioned yesterday – from the perspective of reassignment of items exclusively, i.e. that cuts do not have to be implemented in certain items in order to maintain others, but that public services have to be strengthened through indebtedness, because what we have seen in recent years in relation to the inability to address the deficit without limits has been the path of austerity, which has meant limits in primary care, in the ICUs, in public spending on health and education, and we believe that it is necessary to recover levels of investment at least in percentage terms in health and education at 2010 levels. This requires very important public investment, and debt capacity is needed at this time. The austerity policy of recent years has meant the unnecessary loss of life now, the result of the health crisis, because if we had had the necessary public services, that social shield forced to be able to compensate for the health crisis experienced, since it would have existed. Secondly, the public sector must also lead the economic recovery and should do so by increasing spending, but above all also by spending well, and we do not think that assuming investments in large infrastructures or that they are designed to maintain a certain customer mesh will contribute to maintaining productive investment in this country. In any case, and I told you last week in the committee, there is a figure in the macroeconomic tables that your department has given that gives us some concern, and it is the increase in public consumption. You expect it to be 3.5 by 2020, but 1.5 by 2021. We believe that these public administrations' capacities to deal with public consumption are very inadequate, and we would like you to reflect on that. These forecasts seem very worrying to us and it is supposed that the administrations will not make the necessary public investment to sustain the productive activity of this country, or at least that it is the Administration that leads this economic recovery, but that they leave it all at the expense of private activity. On the other hand, we believe that the increase in public administrations linked to what I was commenting on is also very low, that is, that the agreed deficit limit we believe may be insufficient. That is to say, 2.6 of GDP and then 0.9 agreed for all three of us, we believe that it can be insufficient, in addition to the circumstances that we are experiencing right now with the second wave of COVID and that this can put at risk what you mentioned as a possible recovery from the private sector in the coming years. We believe that we can find that this recovery does not take place and that, therefore, it will have to be addressed from the public administrations in a more courageous and riskier way to the leadership for economic recovery. Because we realize that in addition to recovery from the private sector, they also link it to the possibilities that central government debt can offer and also to what it has to do with European funds in Euskadi, and we believe that this should not be the formula, taking into account the self-government capacity of Euskadi. That the state goes to a deficit of 11% and that then we have the European funds, which will arrive when they arrive, if they arrive, should not be the only formula that the Basque Government addresses to deal with the situation arising from COVID. And, thirdly, the necessary tax reform in the medium and long term. You are talking about the medium and long term in relation to the necessary structural reform of fiscal policy. In addition, they pick it up in their government agreement. We do not know how this tax reform will be carried out, but it seems to us, and I have already told you on more than one occasion, that if we resort to indebtedness, but the burden of public administrations, the burden of fiscal pressure, continues to fall on labour yields, we will hardly get out of this crisis situation in a fair way in the future. And what if that recovery from the private sector doesn't happen and we also have deficit constraints in a few years? That if we have not made the necessary changes in fiscal policy, we will not have new tools or resources to provide ourselves with more public funds. He will certainly answer me, because he has already done so on some other occasion, which is not the time, which is not the time and surely the answer he wants to give is because these tax reforms would strain savings and savings in the end result in the productive investment capacity in this country. But it is that the tax reforms that we propose to you basically are directed to the higher income of the IRPF and also to corporate tax, which is charged when there are profits, and there are companies that still make big profits or produce big profits today. And that is where we believe that the Basque Government has an opportunity to put forward measures. We know that the competence to regulate this issue lies with the Chambers, but the Basque Government has the resources to implement measures that bring social justice to this country's tax system. There is the formula of the surcharges for certain sections of the IRPF tax rates that we could apply, and it is also fiscally harmonized the type, for example, of corporate tax, in such a way that we can deal with, but focusing on those who have the most, economic recovery and that this exit from the crisis, in addition to debt, be with a view to social justice from the tax point of view. Because if not, in a few years' time, if private investment has not faced the crisis, as you propose, nor since the public investment that the Basque Government intends to make that, in our opinion, can be scarce, what will be the formula for getting out of the situation in which we will be in a few years' time if we do not have the resources to provide ourselves financially or fiscally? It is therefore necessary to make that tax reform now and not to leave it for later. And this would end. I would always like to urge you, once again, to address, before we start talking about the budget, the possible tax reforms needed in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u61	Thank you, Mr. Soto. I'm sure you're the one who's the one who's the one who's talking to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u62	Mr. President of the Parliament, President, chief officers. Mr. Soto, I thought the measures taken to excite the economy in my performance in the 21st that went before the Economics and Preservation of this Parliament were clear. In fact, I thought it was the reason you'd withdraw the session that you'd ask for it in my performance. I have no objection, however, to renew this subject, and to give it all the lights necessary, with great taste. I see, Mr Soto, that you insist and insist. Well, I don't have a problem answering you as many times as I want, do I? I will proceed to explain it to you, and this time I hope it will be extensive, which I already informed at this headquarters a week ago. That is, the measures that the Government has been taking since the outbreak of the COVID crisis and those that it plans to take in the near future, because the public economy instruments to which you refer have been deployed for more than six months, right? Please note, since 13 May, March, sorry, the Basque Government and, specifically, the department I run has faced this crisis with all the tools we had at our disposal. Nor do you forget that, when Parliament was dissolved, it was not easy to process bills. Three days after the Lehendakari's health emergency declaration, we launched a 25 million SME financial support line from the Basque Institute of Finance in collaboration with Elkargi. Four days later, a new budget programme was approved by the Governing Council with an initial budget of 300 million, extending to 500 million, from remaining treasury and budgetary surpluses. In March and April, we authorized the payment of unemployment benefit to the partners of voluntary social security institutions subject to a ERT or ERE on grounds of force majeure due to the impact of COVID. We have put in place urgent, extraordinary measures for public procurement. The financial support programme for SMEs and medium-sized enterprises, individual entrepreneurs and self-employed professionals for 2020 was approved to respond to the 500 million impact of COVID, which we subsequently expanded to 1,000. We carry out financial debt operations worth EUR 885 million and have approved public aid in the face of economic losses in the trade and hospitality sectors of self-employed workers. In short, I would tell you that, as you see, we have not been unemployed, aware of the gravity of the situation we are going through. From now on, we will take advantage of all the resources that we have been putting into practice in recent weeks and that I am also going to describe again, being very aware that, in addition to the serious economic crisis that we are experiencing, we are all suffering an already emotional and health crisis that marks our way of working, relating and acting in certain situations. An emotional crisis that has been able to change our habits and our routines, and that has made everyone at some point have had insecurities and fears. COVID is very aware of the double crisis. The Government is, too, that it has generated this health situation and will act accordingly. More now, immersed in a second wave that makes predictable a few very complicated months. The macroeconomic scenario has taken into account the forecasts made by different agencies in the worst months of the pandemic in April, May and June. As you know, the Basque Government forecasts for the increase, an increase of 8.9%. You said that public consumption only rose by 1.5. And this tied him to public investment. Public consumption, Mr Soto, is not public investment; public consumption, basically, is personnel expenditure in the macroeconomic picture. 2020 is the biggest fall in our economy in the last decades and we are not expected to return to the level of growth achieved in the 19th to well into the 22nd year. The Government is currently in the process of preparing budgets for 21. On 6 October, the Governing Council adopted the budgetary guidelines for the preparation of these guidelines. Undoubtedly, budgets that pose an intense challenge for the Executive. They are the first in this legislature and are marked by the health crisis and its economic consequences. I am not tired of repeating that they are going to be courageous budgets, that we rule out austerity and that they do not include cuts in public policies, Mr Soto. I hope this will reassure you, as far as possible, because I say it to you with complete seriousness. And I take this opportunity to invite your group and the other groups in the House to make as many contributions as they consider, so that we can analyse them, always within the budgetary and competitive framework. I therefore reiterate the offer of the last 20 in this very place. I also commented on it in my appearance. Health and education will receive a significant budgetary boost by 2021. And we are going to tackle economic recovery, trying to revitalize the sectors most affected by the changes in demand, the drive to fiscal consolidation, the cultural production and the international projection of Euskadi or the reinforcement of the new financial policy adapted to the post-COVID-19 scenario. All this with a clear investment effort. In addition to these axes, budgets will raise a clear stake in digital and energy transitions. The Basque Public Finance Council was held on 15 October, which allows Basque institutions to have figures on which to draw up our accounts for the coming year. I understand that all of you already know what was agreed at this meeting, as I explained it in my appearance last week in this House. The forecast for the collection of agreed taxes for 2020 is 13,411.6 million euros, which means a decrease of 13,3 in absolute terms and 2,058 million less than that collected in 2019. Next year, the collection of agreed taxes is expected to evolve in line with the planned economic expansion, and thus, it is estimated that out-of-pocket deputies will collect a total of 14,250 million taxes, an increase of 6.3% over the closing collection planned for 2020. As regards the contributions from the outside parliaments, an amount of 9,619 million has been agreed for the year 21. This amount amounts to approximately 854 million less than the budgeted contributions for 2020. As you can see, the scenario is less bad than expected, but it's still a very complicated scenario. We will manage it with absolute rigour and responsibility, because the debt we issue today will, of course, have to be paid tomorrow. Therefore, public debt does, which is necessary; there is no problem, Mr Soto, to cover all the needs we have to face. No more or less than the one that is essential. I dare say that debt is "headed", because debt is not free for us, nor for anyone, nor for generations to come. We will try to ensure that the debt is well justified, analysed, programmed and always updated by this Parliament. We are also aware of the reference rates agreed on 30 September in the Joint Commission on the Concert, which joined those agreed on 31 July with the Government of Spain. Thus, the Basque Government has a limit of 2.6%, which you call insufficient. I'm telling you, it's tight and it's going to be perfectly enough. You also criticise the fact that we have not used more public spending in the past few years. I have to remind you of the Stability Act, which prevents it and which, moreover, you rigorously and as you must, strictly comply with in the Government of Spain. These figures, which I say to you, Mr Soto, percentages, mean that the Basque Government will be able to incur a deficit of EUR 1,716 million in 2020 and of EUR 1,617 million in 21. To this must be added the suspension of tax rules by Europe, which will allow us to manage these margins with some flexibility. And let me delve into this point. The European Union is following the momentum that it has maintained since the beginning of the pandemic, as it has always declared its intention to flee austerity and has advocated flexibility in public spending. It's good and necessary. We share this idea, Mr. Soto. The European institutions also seem to have understood the mistake of their action at the stage of the great recession. What we have known so far as a deficit is now reference rates and the fact that there are no fiscal rules these two years does not mean that we should not act with fiscal responsibility, because after these two years in which all the institutions must focus on recovery, we will have to regain the path of stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u63	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu, for the answers. And yes, indeed, we will continue to insist on several lines. Firstly, in that the borrowing capacity, both for the current year, that of 2020, taking into account what happened yesterday, as expected by 2021, is essentially going to face the fall in revenue; that is, that in relation to the planned expenditure before the crisis, there will not be a sum in the capacity of administrations to increase expenditure and encourage public investment. That is a very negative interpretation of the policy in relation to the investment capacity of the Basque Government. Because you have talked about certain items that have already been launched over these months to deal with the situation. Indeed, but this money that has been used to launch these programmes, to deal with the economic crisis resulting from the health crisis, has come from a reallocation of resources and therefore from a lack of use of certain items provided for in the 2020 budget, which could be assumed and could be reasonable from the perspective of releasing certain items to deal with the situation. But it is no less true that this should also be complemented by greater borrowing capacity to provide more resources for new programmes, which is basically what we proposed yesterday. On the subject of fiscal policy, he has not mentioned anything at all, and we will continue to insist on that. Debt yes, as you have said, with the necessary limit and adjusted to the needs of the situation. But when the time comes, this indebtedness will have to be assumed by future generations, and it will not, in our opinion, be covered again by those who have always been paying in the economic crises, and are the returns of work in this country. That fiscal reforms are being addressed from the Spanish Government – it is true that they are not revolutionary, but from the perspective of social justice – and here we consider that this is not the time, it does not seem to us to be reasonable. We believe that here, too, certain tax changes can be faced in relation to high incomes, and also in relation to corporate tax. And that we do not want to address this issue at this time, as we find it worrying. We do not know exactly when this issue is to be addressed. I say to you that it is those who are expected to raise the tax burden that they are best prepared to pay and that therefore this does not affect the ability to recover. Because, in general, it is precisely to whom these fiscal changes would be directed that their resources and savings do not derive outside the financial markets; that is, they do not use their savings to generate productive investment in this country. And, therefore, from our group we believe that it is necessary to make a change in fiscal policy in this country, because in a few years' time, if economic recovery has not been given by private investment, which is basically the bet your Government makes, how will we deal with the situation if we have not approached new tools to have at our disposal greater financial capacity? And, in relation to meeting the expenditure ceiling, the expenditure ceiling had to be met. And so we and we have had to do, unfortunately, too, from the Spanish Government. But one thing is to have to abide by that decision and another is to commune with it. And we, of course, have never been commulgated with the spending ceiling; we have criticized that formula for what it meant in the decline and in the inability to cope with the economic crisis. And from your party, that is to say, you say that from the Basque Government you have always advocated that the deficit capacity should be made more flexible. Well, you could list interventions by members of your party in relation to austerity and budgetary balance, the need for budgetary balance in previous years – not now, huh?, in previous years – that left much to be desired in relation to the limits imposed by the spending ceiling. And well, we will continue to talk about this issue in the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u65	Thank you, Mr. Soto. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u66	Yes, Mr. Soto, we'll keep talking. I've never been commulgated with the spending ceiling. I do not know if you have followed me in any way when I have been in Parliament for the last 17 years, in the Spanish Parliament. But, with regard to austerity policy, we have been very critical; I have been personally very critical. But, critic or not, commulate or not, in the end you have to fulfill. And that's what's good, isn't it? I guess the same thing happens to you guys. With regard to the COVID plan, we have used EUR 400 million, of which EUR 350 million have come from accumulated remnants; it has not been a reallocation. From the reallocation have barely reached 50 million euros. On the subject of tax reform, I said, I believe that tax reform will have to be done. That is not the time, because at the moment any rise in taxes goes against the impulse to economic activity and the generation of employment, with which it does not go in the right direction. And, of course, we need to reflect on which of these is a tax issue, in order to see what changes have to be made in the future. Because, in fact, this crisis can not only be paid with debt, it can not only be paid by our children and grandchildren. We will also have to reflect on what part of this crisis we have to assume. Of course, with the 2% increase of the IRPF, to those who earn more than 300,000 euros, which is what you have done in Spain, of course with this we will not be able to pay much of this debt. I think this has been a toast to the sun, which I do not know if it has been politically appropriate for them, but we believe that we need to make the reforms more serious and in-depth, then make a review, let's say clear, in relation to that matter, right? I think we'll have to talk about this, and we'll talk about everything we need. The government will continue to maintain, however, an attitude that combines reasonable expansion in budgetary matters with a cautious and prudent view of public accounts, Mr Soto. With the figures for the 21st, which I mentioned earlier, we will be able to incur the deficit of 1.617 million by 2021, and a debt that will reach up to 16.9% of GDP. We believe that it is a debt sufficient to make an expansive budget to deal with the reality of what Euskadi needs, and to deal adequately with the economic situation and the situation of the pandemic. It is also necessary to talk about additional resources from the Next Generation fund, through the recovery and resilience mechanism, to ensure sustainable economic recovery. The European Union has, as you know, established common priorities, which are translated into an ecological, digital and social resilience transformation. It is said that the state will get up to EUR 140 billion in view of the transfers it will receive through this initiative; resources from Europe can be substantially increased this legislature. But at the moment, we do not know the amount, when and how much. We don't know. When they come, we'll use them properly. We must continue with the recovery effort initiated in recent years through public investment, taking into account its multiplier effects, its impact on productivity and the level of public services, as one of the first consequences of the pandemic caused by COVID-19 has been the re-evaluation of the public. From this perspective, on the shared foundations for the social and economic reconstruction of Euskadi, from the defense of public services and social policies, on the basis of more and better self-government that is reflected in the government agreement for this legislature, this crisis is faced as an opportunity to emerge from it with a more cohesive society, with a strengthened welfare state, and with fewer inequalities. These shared premises, aligned with the United Nations 2030 Agenda, point to the path of the Basque Government for this legislature, whose trajectory, on the other hand, has already been marked by the strategy of sustainable human development. Its continuity requires that this commitment be redoubled by inclusive growth, which goes beyond GDP, and that it be borne in mind that growth alone does not imply well-being and that, in order for it to be generated, it is necessary to channel growth in a way that flows under social and environmental justice criteria. Therefore, public policy measures. First, own resources through the contributions of the parliaments. Second, public debt with reference rates to which I referred – debt, he said, "headed." And thirdly, European funds, always considering them as additional to ours, because this country is very capable of operating with its own resources. The Basque Government will have before it a solvent and tractor proposal for Euskadi, with which we hope to be in the pole position and to give due consideration to these funds. That you have no doubt, we are working on it in a transversal way. I will end by reiterating my firm conviction that we will come out of this whole situation if we cooperate intensively with everyone. Deep alliances and joint efforts are needed. I hope yours is available, Mr. Soto. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u67	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Number of points in theme list: "Interface, Unai Fernandez de Betoño De Lacesta, the parliamentary members of the EH Union, made for the Planting Plant, Housing, and the Chief of Transportal Groups, for the exact purpose of dissolving the contract of the Portal subway." Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u68	Thank you, good morning. The third check-box, which we must next take to this subject, is the chief physician of the Arrians. It's just that you're not explaining, that you're not giving data, and that the people are worth transparency because they're paying their taxes over the St. John's subway. You've taken a lot to tell us about the problems. We don't believe from the 5th of June, where the hole in the court appeared during the short interval between 25th of September, where ETS predicted the dissolution of the contract, which does not arrive in three months, the accumulation of one over 70%, of nearly 50 million dollars more in this work. You've known about your topcoat for a long time and you've been deliberately hiding it. There's a clear test of that. Not ten days after the prediction of September 25, you made another major announcement on October 6th. Here it appears very small: "La boca del no stara del effifio, sino junto a Reparadors." I mean, you had to move an entrance to the station in the Congo for technical problems. Do we have to assume that in ten days the technical problems were discovered by the solution to which? Besides, not just the technical solution, but also the way to insert the new station into the city level. Obviously not. And it's too late to hear about what happened. Perhaps you've waited until the elections of July 12th, maybe it's even more overdone for that, so much for waiting. And you haven't yet explained what these technical problems are. Not from St. Bartholomew, not from the Congo. It's not enough to explain that you've found water and sand, which is rather common, or that you're using a technique called "Jet Grouting," which is very common to compress a soft rock. Particularly, you didn't explain why these problems weren't planned. Why didn't the technical projects predict that there would be water and sand on these two points? If the passage of the subway is over, on any of the old planes of Donostia, as we have done here, it is plain that in the Concave, or the Easons, were landscapes of the 19th. before we open the center of the century. A tunnel by the sea, and under the fratic layer, might have been expected to appear. In this sense, have you checked that the constructive project of 2016 was successful? We've spent time studying the project. And we told you the other day, we didn't make 105 geotnic probes for this project, like you said in the parliament. We brought 105 probes, because you put your face on the face of surprise the other day... They're here on 81 and 82 pages of addition from Geotania. I just brought them to you because I told you that you made the face of incredible things the other day. You haven't repeated that 105 in front of the count, which is true, because of those 105s there are no connection to the subway. I won't repeat where they're from. 58, 105 to 58. And from 58 the explosions of the mechanical milling, in which the witness return, which is the reliable technique, are alone 34. And I think that's the number you're giving me right now. Eight, 2010 informative examinations and 26 other 26th, of the 2012 constructive project, was cancelled by EAJ. And it must be said that this 2010 project didn't have the same project route we're building right now. That wasn't very different. But, klaro, just for 400 yards of trouble, between San Barthome and the Congo, if we overrun two projects, as we have done here, we have here what we're building green, which you're building and projected red in 2010, it's obvious that the differences, the greatest just, are there. What's going on? Klaro, they've taken advantage of certain probes to make a project that's green and red. Those who have been made are taking advantage of the probe to make a green project, and now they're taking advantage of it to make a project that we're making red. Hombre, there are some coincidences and you can take advantage of a series of probes, but all of them... Not quite. We're trying to explain here that we have to study both the project and everything we've done on the works. It's also surprising that what we reported in the latest check-up, the only thing that was done was that seven geotnic probes were made in the constructive project of 2016. The High One of mine said it was a lie. I brought them here, seven probes: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. They're also on the instrumental project. And, as I said, they all stop higher than the tunnel. That's very clear, for instance, in this evacuation. The S-3 probe, the new one made to make a project of 2016, goes down here in red. And there's a tunnel down here, 12 meters below. So there were few of them and they don't give enough information. The project was assigned to the 28thjad, and the works were assigned to the 16thjad. Maybe it's the result of those baloneys, at least a part of what happened. And that's where there can be concerns, technical and political. It's no good that the chief physician is selling, that's the bad luck, that's what happens, we pay for it all and we do the right thing. Because now you're here to undo the work contract. Have you done it yet? We don't know. We suspect we'll find out when everything is connected and connected. You said here that you've made technical reports to explain the problems. We already asked for them. But it wouldn't be too much of an effort to publish those reports that are supposed to be used now as a basis to undo the contract of the work. Or don't you need technical reports, Chief Arriola? What's the point of going around making reports, if it's bad luck, isn't it? Have you already reached an agreement with Sacyr, Cavosa, Campezo, Mariezcurren, and the Prepres of the Bridgeer? We want to know. You said 107 last check contractors in the Public Sector Act. that, according to the article, there cannot be made another modified, and that it would already be a third. Okay, we don't fit in that. I mean, we have to cancel the contract and the point. But we're very concerned about the conditions of the organizational agreement. Has anything already been negotiated? Is there something compacted? Is there going to be indemnization besides? Or did you come to an agreement? We're canceling this and nothing happened here? We must remember here that we are talking about a contract of 65 million euros, including the VAT, and that the chairman of the department has already said that the overdose could be 70%. I mean, we're talking about another 45 million euros. Garantia, that was five percent, including the VAT in 3,25 million euros, right? Will ETS stay with Garanti? Or have you tried to lose that too? I shall recapitulate the question: What exactly does the chief department have to do with the agreement resolution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u69	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, you say that we have already dealt with this same issue in the two questions I answered on 2 and 6 of this month. And I think I explained, in the detail that was possible at that time, the reasons why our department and public society Euskal Trenbide Sarea believe that it is necessary to proceed to terminate the contract of works of the Miraconcha-Easo section of the metropolitan variant of the Donostia-San Sebastián mole and the technical causes that have caused this decision, basically the detection of problems of geological stability at two very specific points of the rock bed that is being dug through the tunnel between the two stations. You talk about sand and water. What were we thinking of meeting? Well, of course, rock, as we found ourselves in 90% of the plot. And also here we expected to find rock. The rock we found is of a quality that prevents the excavation that was planned. We have also found water and sand unexpectedly. An impact that is going to entail a significant overrun on the initial budget, and that requires the application of constructive solutions not provided for in the originally contracted project. So, as I explained to you on the 16th, the obligation under the Public Sector Contracts Act is to terminate this contract, to carry out a reformed project that collects the necessary new solutions and to tender it out. I also anticipated that our purpose was to have the adapted project ready within two months and to tender it out before the end of the year, with the idea that the contracting company(s) would be on the line before the summer, if possible by the end of May, and the delays in the completion of the work are as minimal as possible. Because our commitment, in addition to completing this project, is to minimize the inconvenience caused to people living or working in the area and to citizen life. You're talking to me again about the polls. And, in fact, I commented that there has been technical information from 115 surveys throughout the underground intern area: 35 surveys collected from environmental advisory projects – indeed, there are projects that have been used from environmental advisory projects – and 80 specific ones made by the department, in addition to 50 geophysics profiles. The 400-450 linear metres of tunnel to be excavated, which are 10.7% of the underground intern, have had a total of 35 probes, 14 of which have been collected from environmental advisory projects and 21 are specific, carried out by this department, and 16 geophysical studies have also been carried out in that particular section. The usual ratio in an urban tunnel project is one probe every 100 meters. This means that seven times more have been done here, taking into account all the surveys to be taken into account, or four times more, if the specific surveys carried out for this project are taken into account. Special mention and supplement to geophysics studies. Well, in the 15 days since your last question, progress has been made in the technical drafting of the reformed project and, with a view to the termination of the contract, a legal report has been commissioned to support the steps being taken. And ETS is also talking to the last successful bidder to proceed with the liquidation of the already executed part of the work and to agree on the work surface, and maintenance and safety, that will continue to be carried out in the stage until the new award. Likewise, we are maintaining informational contacts with the neighbors, traders and hoteliers of the urban area affected by the works, in order to keep them up to date with the incidents and meet their requirements, in order to minimize the inconveniences. We want the work that is carried out on the surface to continue with normality, and we work closely with the City Council to limit its impact on the life of the city. The intention of our department is to resolve the incidences that have arisen – which you know sometimes occur in public works of a certain complexity – by ensuring that the solution is the most appropriate, has the minimum economic cost added and does not extend too much the implementation period initially envisaged. I already suppose that the reason for the inquiry is not so much to be interested in the progress of the Donostialdea metro project, but to try to challenge and discredit the project as a whole; that is what you are doing from the very beginning. In other words, he has made the inquiry to present a motion within a few days, and thus continue to feed the campaign of his formation against this project. I'd be surprised if I didn't. But look, the underground variant of the Topo de Donostia-San Sebastián is not a whim, as one could learn from the statements of EH Bildu, it is not made to use it to go from Amara to the beach of La Concha, let us not be so illusive. Its objective is to offer a sustainable, modern and efficient mobility solution, not only to Donostialdea, but to a large part of Gipuzkoa's population. Because the subway intern joins the east-west rail communication that attends Euskotren and the Topo, avoiding the sac bottom of the current Amara station, making it possible to offer a service with metro frequencies to the urban areas between Zumaia and Hendaia. Unlike other metropolitan areas where an important stake has been made in infrastructure and transport, and I am referring to Bilbao and the development of Metro Bilbao, in Donostialdea, and due to its particular circumstances, public transport has not been able to absorb the increase in mobility in recent times. The result is that the private vehicle currently has an overwhelming weight of 66% of the journeys, while the bus accounts for 27% and the train for 7%. Hence, a railway intern solution was sought through the city centre that would reabsorb the problem raised by the Amara station and allow a substantial improvement in the safety of the traffic and the frequencies of the journeys. Reduction of travel times and serving a much wider population. And this is achieved in the project by placing the three stations in the most densely populated areas of the capital. Thus the station of Bentaberri served the university and the Old; the station of Centro La Concha serves the entire Ensanche area, and the station of Easo will serve the population of the areas of Amara and Morlans. A total of 115,500 people live less than 10 minutes walk from these three stations. But, as I have pointed out, the railway variant of the Topo is not only an infrastructure for the capital, but a future solution to improve the mobility of the inhabitants of the dense strip that goes from Hendaia to Zumaia. The demand studies that were carried out at the time estimated a total of 23.5 million annual trips for the entire Hendaia-Usurbil-Zarautz line, and it does not appear that this estimate has decreased in recent years; on the contrary, if only the demand of the railway intern, together with the Riberas de Loiola interchanger, is taken into account, the forecast is 9.9 million annual travelers. Therefore, you can tell me that the project does not like its political formation or prefers another alternative. And the truth is, it's been quite a few years since this alternative was put on the table, and if you have any alternative to it, I'd like to meet her. But it is difficult to maintain that it is an unnecessary work because it has no justification. There are many reasons that support this project, I have provided you with some, and I could add more, from the social, economic or decarbonised mobility point of view. Doesn't it seem to you positive that all people living in the strip from Hendaia to Zumaia have a solvent alternative to using their private vehicle to travel to Donostia-San Sebastián for work or study, shopping or leisure reasons? Don't you find it interesting that this metro system allows to rethink the organization of the surface spaces in the city by facilitating their enjoyment for pedestrians or cyclists, or that it allows to allocate to other uses about 21,000 square meters that currently occupy the station of Amara and the beach of access routes? As for the social and economic profitability of the project, we will have – I believe – opportunities to continue discussing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u71	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u72	Chief Arriola, I've been worried about something you said. At first I thought I misunderstood, but then you repeated it. Is the department doing geotnic probes? That's what you said. I mean, we're paying three companies to construct a constructive project of $4 million euros, and now we're doing $65 million euros, and we're gonna have to build some series of geotonic probes? That's what you said, isn't it? Please, I'm asking you on the last round, if you can, to clear that up. It seems to us that it's pretty poor and low-level enough for us to proceed from the download and Galdato, Chief Arriola. You said it a couple of times. The download has nothing to do with this, and it's a project that's coming from your government program on the Galdak Line. Besides, by telling him that you're using the fifth line in the Bilbatical 5 you're going to serve a lot more people, as you've said now, besides being a political mistake, you've been forced by someone who looked like you to be in the government program. It's also a lie. And it's the same little lie you've been lying to today, because the passengers in the Donosti don't come here to give you a new service. You're singing Hendaya-Zeager. There's the legend before the work is done. That's why this project's called pastant, not a new subway line. It's a bypass, and the old tunnel, not so old, as I told you in the plano of the first control, will abandon the country. And this project doesn't come to make three new stations, as you've just said. She only does two. There's Jail stop, Chief Arriola. One of them is at the St. Bartholomew's Conjugate and another in Bental. From Easo station to St. Bartholomew there are 400 meters on foot. Well, on foot and a spaceship. And from Lugart to Bentunko, all right, there's a little more, about 700 meters. It is better, yes, but it is an Assian luxury, an asisical luxury. You asked me at the board why I am opposed to the project if it is for mobileness, and I replied very clearly: If I had plenty of money, I'd do this and a lot of other projects. But since the money is not too much, we must choose, and we must make the best of our projects. You tell me what alternative it is. "EH Collect has often said: A metro improvement and a bus power frequency and service. But we've said that more than once. And, as far as Topo, it seems to us much more urgent to improve the Alza, the Pasti Ancho, the portaborda. He's coming in your program, too, but he's carrying this subway survey of the money around here... I don't know what percentage to say, I don't dare, because we don't know it yet. And we believe that the ideals have been placed at the top of their moving goals in this project from the start. Topo was to be chosen between luxury and expensive little toys, and you chose the second one. And it's getting worse. It's bad enough. Before we started, this project was considered a jabaronic, and now, after the problems presented, the delta is becoming something. In the midst of the panic crisis we're experiencing I don't know how to define, something physemizo, something inhuman. For who can guarantee that 50 million more than that the water will never again enter those 400 meters that are missing? By the way, 400 meters, Chief Arriola, from 2,000, it's not 10%, it's 20%. It's a big problem. It's no small matter. It's not stupid, and it can turn 50 million into things that don't know how much more, so maybe the water comes back to you. Health, education, care, and other public services are millions of people who are capable of strengthening, Chief Arrian. If you'd rather not get out of the supply of transports, it's millions that can go and strengthen public transports. Now's your chance. We've got to break the front contract, yeah. You're asking for a legal report now. Seems at least it's because of the pressure we've made. You can guarantee the safety of tunnels, but don't draw a new contract to liquidation. No, at least, in the midst of this great crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u73	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u74	Mr Fernandez de Betoño, I said in my first speech what I said and it will be recorded in the Minutes. When some project or initiative does not like you, your party is a specialist in proposing that the amount of the investment allocated be allocated to social expenses or other needs that you consider to be more pressing. I'm not going to go back to the history of Leizaran's highway, that highway that the people of Euskal Herria Bildu don't use in their travels to Navarre. Or their positions regarding the vast majority of road variants of the towns and cities of Euskadi, those variants that EH Bildu do not use either and do not circulate through them. Or the railway Y, the high-speed line that when it's finished you won't use either. Now to question the railway variant of the Top they invoke the crisis of the COVID-19, but if the pandemic did not exist there would be other reasons, as in fact it has been so far. But that's a false argument, a forced dilemma. Social spending can and must be strengthened, especially at a time like this, and at the same time can and must continue to be invested in future projects. As the Spanish Government is going to do, as we are going to do in the Euskadi budgets for next year or as proposed by the European Union with its extraordinary programmes of recovery and combating climate change. By the way, the railway variant of the Topo fits perfectly into the objectives of sustainable mobility, committed to public transport, decarbonisation, digital modernisation and humanisation of the city marked by the European Union and also reflected in the 2030 Urban Agenda. I do not know whether your group really subscribes to these objectives, because it proclaims that we must fight global warming and for decarbonisation, but then it opposes each and every one of the renewable and clean energy initiatives that are being proposed in Euskadi. In any case, they are in their right to reject a project if they do not like it, but what I would ask Bildu, as I have said on some other occasion, is a bit of coherence, because it is not possible to denote an infrastructure for some reasons and that those same reasons do not apply to another project that I do like and that I continue to do. With regard to other technical setbacks, I will tell you again what happened when the contract for the Antzuola-Bergara section of the Deskarga motorway was terminated – your group was at the head of the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council – also, by the way, due to geological problems and overexpenditure. What strikes me very much is that your group has put the bow to this project in Donostia-San Sebastián, which serves not only for the capital, but for an important part of Gipuzkoa and, instead, fiercely defend the construction of the future line 5 of the Bilbao metro, which is indeed in the government program, of course. Before the pandemic arrived and also now, you base your position, your opposition to the railway variant of the Top where this investment supposedly has no social return and there are other returns to attend to. Okay, well, let's get the numbers and make comparisons. The metro of Donostialdea, variant of the Top plus Riberas of Loyola, estimated investment, 205 million euros. Estimated number of passengers, 9.9 million per year. Passenger investment/year, 20.71 euros. Line 5 of the Bilbao metro, Sarratu-Usansolo, estimated investment, 400 million euros; new estimated travelers, 5.780,620; passenger/year investment, 69,20 euros. The figures speak for themselves. This railway solution that they defend in Bizkaia, which we also defend and is in the government program, involves double the investment, 3 million less travellers and a cost per traveler/year that triples that of the project that abhors in Gipuzkoa for anti-democratic, forgiveness, anti-economic and anti-social. They will have to explain it to me, and it would also be good if they were to explain it in passing to the people of Gipuzkoa whom they want to deprive of a modern, efficient and sustainable means of transport. By the way, when Donostialdea's subway is up and running, will you use it?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u75	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is, Muriel Larre Lasoa, Popularo Group-Ciudad's parliamentary Parliament for the planetal Planting, Housing and Transport Commander, about the work of Donostical subway." Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u76	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. I am also going to ask Mr Iñaki Arriola a question this time about the cost of this work, which is going to increase by at least 50 to 70 %. What assessment do you make in this matter?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Larrea, I do not think this is the first time that I say in this rostrum that when it comes to matters that are of my direct competence, which affect my department, my role is not to make assessments, but to address the problems and propose solutions, and that is what we are doing with the incidences that have arisen in the excavation of the Easo-Miraconcha tunnel of the metropolitan variant of the Donostia-San Sebastián Top.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u79	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u80	Thank you. Look, I'm going to go back to the goths right now, if it's necessary, if it's necessary, to understand why we're here today talking about this. In the year 89, the Department of Transport and Public Works of the Basque Government presented the study of the San Sebastián-Hendaya railway in the city centre of San Sebastián. I have the document; the layout is not exactly what is being done now, but I want you to understand one thing: in the same presentation, the same day, the same study was also presented for Bilbao. Today, October 30, 2020, Bilbao has five subway lines and Gipuzkoa only has... well, five, okay. But they're on your projects, okay? Gipuzkoa only has one, gentlemen. Thirty-one years later we continue to talk about the same subject in Gipuzkoa, but not only that, but they have had 31 years to take samples, to carry out a project, to think about it very well, to carry out the necessary works to connect Zumaia, Zarautz, Donostia, Lezo, Errenteria, Oiartzun, Irun and Hendaia. Necessary infrastructure that our party has been defending since its presentation that year 89. It's not the first time it's been built under the sea making a tunnel, either. But it is also that Zubieta Street is one of the streets that bear the most inhabitants per square meter in Gipuzkoa. And they will tell me, and I understand, that to great works great setbacks. But, please, it was necessary to avoid collapses to make the necessary tastings, and the stoppage of the work justifies the termination of the previous contract and the elaboration of a new project, which now takes into account the location and circumstances of making a tunnel under one of the most populated urban helmets of Gipuzkoa and below sea level. But, man, don't tell me that's not a striking increase. You spoke of some EUR 20 million in the press, more than 50% of the bid price of the previous project, and to this we added two more years of the forecast of completion of the works, 2024. I'll tell you we'll be vigilant. Don't hesitate, Mr. Arriola. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Larrea, I am glad that we continue to agree on the need to undertake the implementation of this infrastructure, which is undoubtedly a substantial improvement in the public transport service for a very important part of Gipuzkoa. And, indeed, on 7 October, in my visit to the ongoing work on this section and to questions from the media, I made an estimate of the increase in the work to which your question refers. And what exactly is it going to be? Well, that will be seen when the reformed project that Euskal Trenbide Sarea is working on is available in order to incorporate the necessary interventions to solve the geological problems found in two very specific points of the tunnel that joins the future stations of Easo and La Concha Centro. Let us hope that we will have it in a few weeks to proceed with your bid before the end of the year. In any case, when discussing possible cost overruns in many projects of this entity, it is necessary to clarify the starting point. I will tell you that the tender budget for the Miraconcha-Easo tranche, that is, the cost that ETS technicians estimated when bidding on the project, was 71 million euros. The project was awarded in December 2017 for EUR 53,2 million, with a decrease of 25%. However, both in March 2019 and in July 2020, EUR 10.5 million had to be modified to address changes in the attack gallery and to execute a bypass in the geologically problematic area of Easo. Two emergency actions have also been approved at a cost of just over €7 million. The first, in December of last year, to face the appearance of sands on the front of the Easo tunnel and, the second, in June of this year, to consolidate mortar injections in a rock discontinuities next to La Concha, which crossed the underpass of Zubieta Street. These actions introduced in the contract of this work are not sufficient to solve, in their entirety, the problems detected and to achieve the objective of ensuring the full execution of the work in safety. Therefore, just take care of the transport area, we agree with the ETS technicians in which it was necessary, as provided for in the Public Sector Contracts Act, to terminate the current contract and to bring to competition a reformed project, a project that will incorporate the engineering solutions that are necessary to solve the geological problems detected. What can be the ultimate cost over this stretch? Well, it's not possible for me to specify it now, Your Honor. It will be necessary to wait for the liquidation with the current ETU and the new award. What I can tell you is that at the moment the costs committed already amount to €70.8 million, which coincide almost exactly with the budget that was proposed by ETS.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u83	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, together with the members of the Podemos-IU members of the Society for the Planets of the Earth, Housing and Transport Corps, concerning the affairs of the Houses of Bentana and other like." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u84	Yes, good morning. Thank you. Yesterday we were talking about housing policy; today too. And, well, we're also talking about the legacy of some bad decisions that were made – legislative – by previous Basque governments like – this is another, but also – the loss of permanent qualification, etc., things that have been corrected but that we're dragging around right now. We are talking about the promotion of Bentaberri and others that are promotions of social housing on public ground with conditions of social rent, but that, in the end, have ended up in the hands of some private companies that are only looking for profit with social housing. In the case of Bentaberri there are 520 housing units that in 2028 lose their social rental status. And the problem, as I said, is that these houses are in the hands of the UTE Bentaberri and Testa, and behind them is Braxton and behind Braxton is the bank of Lehman Brothers that we will all remember. This fund and this company operate with questionable techniques with the neighbors. Renewals of one-year contracts, when in most cases they should be of three years, a situation that puts tenants in defence. They also tighten the income limit of the new families that go to that promotion, because they are preparing the big ball that they intend to do with the rent in 2028. They have had Victoria at risk of eviction, a tenant who was delayed for a single month, and was unable to pay the rent, for the first time, and the fund, automatically, filed a request for eviction. Fortunately, thanks to the pressure of Stop Evictions, Alokiru and many people, Braxton sat down to negotiate, negotiated with this neighbor and this one reached an agreement to continue living, adjusting the amount and also paying the debt. But we continue to see companies that do business and negotiate with the right to housing, rushing people's patience and tension. Not content with this, a few days ago they sent this letter to a number of tenants, to whom the contract was concluded on 31 January 2021 and they were extended six months the contract, pursuant to Royal Decree 8/20, of article 22 of the state of alarm. But they said that they were then automatically cancelled the contract without any explanation or negotiation. Then, some neighbors phoned the company and told them it was a mistake. But that error has not been reflected in any document. New abusive and intimidating practices by these pirate companies. Bentaberri is not the only case we have in Euskadi. And we think that we have to do more, that we have to do a collective defence of the Basque Government, which is the representative of Basque citizenship, of the tenants and the tenants before these vulture funds. The City Council of Donostia in 2019 also approved this motion, in addition by unanimity of all the groups, in which it requested the Basque Government to elaborate, agree and implement with the company a protocol of action in the case of defense in Bentaberri. Then, our question and our request is again another productive and constructive proposal to the Government. It will be whether the Basque Government is going to create or sit down with the company to negotiate a comprehensive solution for all the families who are currently in Bentaberri and will therefore guarantee the social role of housing both now and in 2028, in which it will lose permanent qualification. That's our question, that's our request. We believe that the Basque Government has responsibility for these 520 homes, but also for other Basque homes that are in similar characteristics. We believe the government has the capacity to talk about you to such companies. And we can't leave neighbors and neighbors in defenselessness, neither now nor in 2028, when the function or social rental is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u85	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Arriola, to answer you, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Martinez, as you know, Bentaberri's was a unique operation. It was the first promotion of sheltered housing for rent at a time when the entire VPO was for sale and housing could be disqualified at the age of 20. It was carried out by a private TEU on public land which had been assigned for a period of 75 years, with the obligation to keep the house for rent for 12 years and with a rating of VPO for 30 years. The second singularity is that Bentaberri's tenants, since their first occupation in 1998, are in the high rank of protected income. They pay, today, a rent between 650 and 960 euros per month. Taking into account the area where it is located and the prices of Donostia-San Sebastián, it is explained that the owner company has a wide list of tenants waiting. But these amounts triple the average income of the Government's rental park by 231 euros per month, a park to which we devote ourselves preferentially. I understand the future concern that people living in these homes may have, but for the moment, beyond what has been done so far, little more can be done by our department as long as the agreed requirements are met. As I have told you, on the basis of the contract specifications, the promoter UTE undertook to keep these dwellings on lease for a period of 12 years. Then, by intervention of the Government, in 2010 and 2019 this deadline has been extended twice. The company has committed to keep these houses in secure rental until 2028. It is true that, at the end of this period, the company could either review the rentals freely or proceed to the sale. But in this case, the seller and the prospective buyer will have to make it very clear that in 2073 all these houses and the land on which they rise will return to the Government, because they were built in surface law for 75 years. Meanwhile, our department will continue to target the new contracts that will be made in this promotion to ensure that both the company and the tenants meet the conditions of access to the VPO for rent. We are more than seven years away from the date on which Bentaberri's VPO housing qualification ends. And, therefore, today we cannot anticipate what will happen. Could the company keep these homes for rent beyond 28 even if they lost the VPO rating? I could. In fact, he's done it twice. Could you buy our apartment those houses? Yes, we could, if before 2028 there was a change of ownership in the promotion or if once they stop being protective they pretend to sell in bulk. In this case we would have to review the income of each of the tenants and whoever exceeded 39,000 euros per year would have to leave Bentaberri. But the question is another. Given the housing needs of the most vulnerable groups, can we afford to spend at least EUR 56 million on such a purchase operation? Because this amount is more than a third of the total annual housing budget. Moreover, with the acquisition we would not increase the offer of housing for the people who need it most. And, on the contrary, we would have to do many other things. With the added circumstance that, as I have commented to you, in 2073 these houses would become the free property of the Government because the land right would end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u87	Thank you. Hiru second dauzkazu. Martinez Zatón, hitza zurea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u88	Just clarify: broker, not buy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u89	Thank you, Mr Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u90	With the intermediation of the Government, the rental time has been extended twice.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u91	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. fourteen points in theme list: "Interadectation, the members of the Ubeka Aranz and the members of the EH Union have been made to the head physician of the Medical Department, on the measures of the first serious state of attention." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u92	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mrs. Apple. Well, first focus is in collapse. And you know it. It's not because EH Collect says it's not because the unions say it. People see him and we suffer from the people. Government can accept it or not. But our first attention is gone. He's barely answering COVID-19, but he can't even answer COVID-19. The trackers of the chronics, the diagnosis of possible diseases, are already forgotten by the presence of consultations. They don't even remember what it was to take care of a regular consultation. That's how one of the doctors from Donosta's ambulance told me on Monday. She was stabbed in the first wave, because, as I said before, this isn't new. This is an existing situation, the problem is not covida. What Covida did is worry and increase the problem. So, before pandemy, we had serious attention. In the first wave, we've been stabbed, and now we have glued it. Even if the health department accepted without consent, it would be well to review and share it with the operators at this moment. But especially what we need, besides the documents, is the measures. We need measures already, already in need, we're late. But it looks like we start to worry about the hospitals when they start filling up. But what about the first line of first-class attention? Besides, he has to answer not only to the Covida, but also to that which is not covida. For, maybe a month, two months, three months, we could take the covida off. But for a long time, if this has an effect, it has already produced an effect. I don't know if the Medical Department has studied the effect on it. You see, in the first wave, one was asked to go and strengthen hospitals. They went away. They even helped their seniors. They've been tracking functions for a long time now or they're in PCR's team. But does anyone ever think that the hospital clerks might force their first attention or go to their senior homes? It's also a matter of kindness. Look what mentality we have, what hierarchy, what level... And we need to break that down. There is. And if it is not, correct me. So we're emptying it from the same place, emptying it, opening a hole to cover other holes. And so, in the end, the first attention is dissolved, the first attention is dissolved. And I told you the other day, a professional said that the concept of our first attention doesn't exist. And, klarus, we must first have urgent measures to solve all this. And then, because we have structure problems, that would give us a chance to solve structural problems. And, klarus, what that requires is that I at this moment see very little alternatives to take the necessary measures, considering that there hasn't been any planning years, especially doctors. You have to open your membership, you have to change the corporativism, and, well, with other entities, with the research centers, you can open the university to answer COVID-19. Because, in that way, a member will have a chance to answer the functions that belong to him. For four hands will do the work better than two hands, and we will answer better. And therefore our question is: why do we persist in keeping our first attention dying? As I said, we need emergency measures now, and we need to put the fireworks aside. In this sense, we can penetrate deeper into the work of decuroratization which began in the first wave. We can increase the equipment, we can increase the equipment, the nurses, the assistants, the stewards. And the assistants, of course, need form. Querys. We're going to consult from the unit, so they can follow the patients. And that's how we're spending central, because 112, so it's peed, it's stuffed. Let's go, as was at first done, to keep two circuits, clean and dirty, in the first corners of attention and constant attention, but not confused, and improve the first form of the wave. Let's go in the same unit to give stability to people who are active and stable, because they're moving from one place to another, and I'm not going... , I can't describe him... We're taking measures to develop nurses' prechrists. And what am I gonna tell you about the security in the ambulances? In a way, purity. It's out of cleanness. And, on the other hand, give access to the workers of the ambulances to have a FFP2 mask. I think it's the lowest. But it's essential, and I repeat, it's nice to rethink the strategy to deal with COVID-19 if there's any strategy. I guess that way, in a great measure, we think it'll be possible to get rid of Osamate. I made a suggestion the other day. There could be a lot of proposals. There could be a lot of formulas. Come on, he's even made it in Europe, he's heard a lot of it. Four fields of work. To take care of the membership, for instance, of symptoms, or of an surgery, or of those who come to make a trial of it. Our research centers and they go on to follow the essential professions and to perform the PCRs, the university and other entities watching in edemology, protocols, validations... I mean, there may be a thousand formulas. See your problems with the data as well, to update the data, to do so. There's Eustat there, too, we have the means. We could give a big jump, we should take a turn on this story. And so the Medical Department may also be useful for a full photograph, because I doubt it, in fact, if the Medical Department has a full photograph right now. And that would help us to solve the problems of structure, to look at the mediums and lengths of time. First attentions, not only to fill up the functions of promotement and prevention, but to place common attention in the first line, surface and code jobs that are hidden and exploited, to advance attention from the hospitals to the first investment, to fit the ratios... To schedule, to plan. To introduce family education into EHU medical studies as a matter of course... Well, here the numbers need to be increased. You're talking so much about transfers from Madrid, negotiations, we're going to increase the numbers here in order to be more professional in our first care. Let's go in the ambulances and have other profiles online: social assistants, psychologists, physiothepeuts... Let's go to the community and open the neighborhoods, right? It's important now that we work in the community, that people can do it, isn't it? Because, in the end, what we do affects us all. And that's where we could do a job, first of all. The first attention is then attributed to many functions, and given to it, as in this report, but then the first attention requires means of answering them all. And we must rethink it, for, besides all this, we have already seen the old age of our demography, in order to adapt a reposition to new times, if need be to say nothing now. Not to mention it. And over there, we have to move to the middle of the time and the middle of the time. And we need a few measures already. Already. And we're late. And that requires planning, planning, and planning. Anti-ract, design. Design, anti-tract. But we often doubt whether we really believe in our first point of view, we see the essential. And, Mrs. Cedui, if we really believe it, and I don't want to doubt it from you, if we think it's a basis, what measures will this department, this chief physician, take from the first emergency situation, and get out of the state of collapse?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours. Heads of Health (Sagardui Upper Home): Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, good morning. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to convey my gratitude, my closeness and all the support that we can provide from the Department of Health to the thousands and thousands of professionals who work in our health system and who, once again, have to deal with the consequences of this second wave of COVID-19. In particular, those who have to take direct and personal care of these and these patients, trying in addition to maintaining the rest of the care activity in a normal way. We are again experiencing tensions in primary and hospital care, but I understand that the experience gained, the availability of material means and other professionals will help us to deal with this second wave with more guarantees. That is why I also take this opportunity to ask all citizens, those who from their windows and balconies applauded our health personnel, to give them their support again, on this occasion complying with the measures that the Basque Government has put in place to reduce the spread of the virus in Euskadi. Ms. Ubera, before you explain what we want to do and what we've done to strengthen our primary attention, I can't forget the confirmation of your question: we do not agree in any way. We have a strong health system, which has been planning in these three decades, and which has been adapted to the actual changes and needs of men, with a clear purpose: To improve the health and well-being of the people. Every day, thousands of people go to our centres to do COVID-19 tests, take the ventilator against the flu, take care of other diseases... Many others take care of themselves on the telephone, to pay attention to this difficult fact that we live in. It is not a test of weakness, but of strength. The collapse of primary care, Mrs. Ubera. "Collapse: 1. Paralyzing or significantly decreasing the pace of an activity. Two. Destruction or ruin of a system, institution or structure." Nothing further from reality. Here, what we are managing is a very difficult reality, derived from the eruption of COVID in our lives. Because that's what he's done, breaking into our lives and completely altering them, although there are those who believe that nothing has changed and everything has to be observed from the same prism. Every day, between 10,000 and 15,000 people go to our primary care network for PCR testing. It's about 300,000 people who've been getting the flu vaccine in the last few weeks. In one week, for example, on 19 October, more than 130,000 people were cared for in person, and twice as many by telematic means. They're not data that talk about collapse. They talk about the strength of a system that made an extraordinary effort starting in March, and that will have to do it again if we fail to reverse the contagion curve soon. This effort leaves damage, of course it does; it forces additional efforts, to prioritize, to delay other actions, it exhausts people, but nothing similar to the collapse. And at this time, since March, we have been supporting the structure of the primary care service and the people who work in it. In primary care, a key tool was developed, such as telephone consultations, both medical and nursing consultations with their patients, as well as consultations between primary and hospital care professionals. In this regard, we were moving at a good pace towards the recovery of face-to-face attention. But I am afraid that, in this new situation of movement limitation, in the face of the fear of users and the need for the protection of professionals, this process is grieving. The COVID crisis has strengthened the relationship between primary and hospital care professionals, and this is a value that should not be lost once the crisis is over. This measure has been accompanied by other measures for the reorganization of staff, increased staffing and training. Another development that has come to stay is the creation of a strategic stock of PPE and various personnel protection materials. I would remind you that we have invested more than EUR 80 million in the acquisition of healthcare materials for professionals, and that the supply of this material, which is so necessary, is guaranteed until March next year. Our primary care bet is permanent. In fact, within the action plan of the Department of Health, which will be translated into a strategic framework document that we will present to you next Monday, we envisage different measures that will be implemented in primary care, in different areas and that will provide it with its own space. Staff measures, establishment of new nursing and family medicine positions. But in June, 23 positions of administrative assistants, five positions of primary care pharmacists and four positions of physiotherapists were established. We will establish templates and perform the necessary recruitments to especially strengthen the necessary activities and programs, those of surveillance in diagnosis and follow-up, flu... In relation to the monitoring network, it is being strengthened with more troops and tracking equipment. I told you a couple of weeks ago there were about 600 people. Well, now I'm telling you there's over 600 people. Measures relating to investments and equipment, temporary recruitment of modules to facilitate the sectorization of the centres and the control of patient queues for the conduct of tests, acquisition and renewal of materials and equipment to improve diagnostic capacity and rehabilitation and expansion of spaces and new consultations in health centres to facilitate the sectorization and deployment of new diagnostic tests of COVID. Don't say, Mrs. Ubera, we haven't done anything, we don't do anything. The organizational measures to implement in health centers, which involve a greater opening of face-to-face consultations, ensuring the safety of patients; progressive deployment of telematics consultation; implementation of a plan to reduce bureaucracy in medical consultations, establishing collaborations with the departments of Education, with Medical Inspection; and reinvigorating the indication, use and dispensation of medicines not subject to medical prescription and other health products by the nurse, in accordance with Royal Decree 954/2015 of 23 October. In that we are and will continue to be and will continue to improve, Mrs Ubera. But we can't say we don't do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u95	Sagardui andrea, strength that of our workers in Osakidetza, that of them, not of the system, not of the system. It's a good thing they're making their own overtures. That's why the situation's keeping. And I want to remind you before the pandemy, I don't know if you remember, the first attentions made mobilizations, they did strike. I don't know if you remember. And that wasn't our current situation for COVID-19. Only COVI-19 has left them exposed and made them more serious. And then, please, it's a joke, it's a joke, it's 23 Australians, five pharmaceuticals, four physiopeuts. What's that? What's that? When we have 40% of provisionality, when attention is restricted and people in the ambulances have no access. Chescot. I don't know, it's done a lot of propaganda, and it's great, because that's what you have to do, but do you know what happened with the vaccine? It's happened with the vaccine in three days because there was no vaccine left, so it was suspended. And I'll give you the dates: October 16, October 20. Some of the Centres had lost nothing, and the villagers left and were out of vaccine. Every day the doctors have to take care of 40-45 patients. They're taking care of the patient 50-55. and they do all this by their own will, because they believe, because they are guarding the health of all, and offering their time. What else? Trackers. Trackers, new contractions, first 37 to September 37, then another 45 new contracts. All the rest, I don't care, 600, 800, 1,000, are all the other nurses taken from their first attention. And you know how nurses call me? "They robbed us." It's ugly because I don't have a problem, they go to help you when you have to go to another place and they're doing it. But in the meantime, they're leaving another hole, they're leaving it and they can't. And other nurses have to take over the hole they leave. So, not a strong system, and this is because there hasn't been any planning in years, due to certain political decisions of years. And it's all that brings us along, too, that we don't take the measures we don't take, we follow the virus. Always? Come on, let's go rethink it. We're ready for the meeting. We're ready for the meeting, and we're making business proposals from January, January. In private and unpublished since January. Four hands can do more than two hands. And we know we don't have a hundred percent reason, and we know that even if we take all the measures in the world, it's probably not going to be easy to turn the situation around. But why do we persist when we see each other again and again that the waves take hold of us? And now it's not a second wave. I just want to remember that we were on a second wave during the summer. And, to be honest, I don't like to talk about waves, because, as you say, we have to live with COVID. Finally, this is a constant, sometimes a hint, and sometimes less a hint. But it is not enough that we should be careful not to take precautions, and it is not enough that I have to agree that we must all act with responsibility, because every one has the influence of the whole community, but it is also the responsibility of this government. And the responsibility of this government is to listen to health workers and professional workers, to listen to first care workers, to listen to those who are in hospitals. Listen to him and listen to him a little. Maybe they're not right for a hundred percent, but what's going on in the end? Neither COVID nor COVID. Nothing. Home. It's the alternative to us at last to "home." But, as Mr. Urkullu first said very well, this has an effect on health, and we must try not to reach it. and we are ready to take measures, but hear what they say. And it's not because EH Collect says we're in collapse because it's not because the unions say we're in collapse condition. Workers, people in the diary, they say. And the people see it and suffer it. I had to call Osar today. And it will happen to everyone, won't it? What's on the phone? What's on the phone? Or, yesterday, someone who works in emergency said to me: "They call us 11-2 with some things... "But why? Because the Sanitary Health Council is clunked up, the health center is glued because people don't have a place to call. And in the meantime, what's going on? Well, if we believe in prevention, if we believe in health confidence, let's...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Your time is over, your time is over. Your time is over. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u97	Ms. Ubera, according to our account the day before yesterday, we've tried 1.103.924 PCR tests since we started. That means we've been taking our first-class attention to 620,412 people for the last few months. 28% of the Basque population. It was just the day before yesterday that we got a record: We made a Basque 17.159 PCR. It's a professional work, but it's a strong system. Otherwise, you can't. To this we must add what has been said of the flu. And you said there was some place where vaccines were missing. I'm sorry, there might be a problem in distribution, I don't know that, but I won't say no, but there's no lack of vaccination, and it's not enough for a long part, because that's all I can assure you. I also wish you to consider all the other demands of the health attack of the population, and you will see that the first degree of attention must be a strong service to adapt to the difficult circumstances, and that all these things may be carried forward. But not only the first attention, but the hospital services have also been arranged. And the partnership, I have already mentioned, is made between them. Indeed, we know that it leaves traces of effort, that it has consequences in the best function of the system, but the Department of Health first put resources in it, and we shall continue to place them in a near future, in order to facilitate the existence of thousands of workers. And we talk to our workers too. Don't tell me, Mrs. Ubera, that we don't do anything. You guys look just like you guys. No, so are we. And not only that, we're in the centers, we're in hospitals every day, we're in the first centers of attention. I repeat and repeat, we must all help our professionals. We have to be Solidas with them. We must observe the limits to which Eukadin is to support the virus expansion of the virus today. You mentioned, Mrs Ubera, the strategy to strengthen primary care. I know you know her, I know you know her because she presented herself to this Parliament in June 2019. And you know that it is being pushed forward and launched with concrete measures. The numbers I mentioned to you are from June. It does not mean that they are the only ones in the recruitments that have been made. In addition, I have also announced that there are new measures, new places, for both medical and nursing staff, that there is more investment in health equipment and infrastructure, that there are new organizational measures. Facts and steps forward, concrete, Ubera andrea. We firmly believe in primary care, and we also strongly believe in its strength and responsiveness. It does not seem, at least it does not seem very prudent to me to try to create a false alarm in society at a time as delicate as this. Yes, Mrs. Ubera, a false alarm. Now it is the help of all and all that is needed more than ever.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interpation by Jon Hernandez Hidalgo together by the law of the Podemos-IU team for the head of the Medical Department, about the strike call that has been made in public health at the eucalypice." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u99	Thank you, ma'am. Sagardui andrea, counselor. I don't know if you'll share with me that the coronavirus crisis has been an unprecedented situation. I understand that yes, it has put humanity in check, but also that they have exposed the seams of our public health. We think that, in view of the general strike that is taking place in Basque public health these days, it is time for the Basque Government to respond to the demands of the public health unions, because we think that what is at stake is not their working conditions in a strict sense, but the quality, precisely, of our public health, and in an urgent way, what is at stake is the ability of our health to be able to respond well to this second wave. The whole society has been aware, in recent months, of the high degree of responsibility and commitment exercised by the professionals of Osakidetza. And I don't think anyone would say that if at a time as delicate as this these same professionals are supporting strikes, it's for pilgrim reasons. That's why we think that, to understand this strike, it's essential to take a little look back in time. Without a doubt, the current health crisis has aggravated the situation, but it has been the policies of recent years and the progressive weakening of our health system that have really tarnished the response to the coronavirus and that have caused staff to have to do their work in extreme conditions at this time. That's how they describe it at least. It is these policies, in our view, which, together with the lack of reaction also from the Basque Government, by not taking advantage of the truce that the virus gave us in the summer, have prompted the unions to be forced to call a strike in the middle of the second wave. That is why, on one of the issues that motivate this strike in Osakidetza, we wanted to know your opinion, your opinion on the answer that you think should be given to them. Lack of investment in public health, lack of human resources, is one of the demands and approaches that the unions are putting on the table on the occasion of these strikes. In 2010, the health budget accounted for 35.28% of the total budget of the Autonomous Community. Between 2011 and 2014, 33%; between 2015 and 18, thirty-one percent. It is true that in 2019 something above 33%. Therefore, the public health system in our budgets has lost weight, so that, at the moment, it remains at the levels of the years we have called the years of the austerid policies. As if it were something ordinary, the government usually tells us that 68% of the budget is for staff. Once the main workstations are already built and amortized, it is logical that the bulk of the expenditure goes to the staff who perform the work every day. We think it is no special merit and, above all, what worries us is that it is not responding to the lack of hands that Osakidetza workers are claiming these days, through this strike. We are told that we are the community that most public health spending does per person, along with the Navarra community. We think that comparison with other realities without taking into account the wealth of other territories hides a certain trap. The question is not how many thousands of euros are spent on public health, but how much this represents of the total GDP of the community, of the total wealth of the community. And in this we cannot compare ourselves with the rest of the countries in our environment. We're clearly below. The European Commission, in its new edition of the European Union Health Survey, the report analysing the state of health systems, notes that the Spanish State allocated 8.9% of its GDP to health in 2017, while the EU average for the same year was higher, 9.8%. But he also pointed out that in Euskadi it was 5.2%. On the high rates of temporality, the lack of generational relief, there is a very large gap between the structural staff that Osakidetza has and the total number of people working today. If I don't have the data wrong – which we have collected from the very approaches that have led to the strike of the unions these days – there are about 28,000 people in the structural staff, but usually there are 11,000 more people without fixed places working. At this point the trade unions have also denounced or have put on the table that the places that you pose for the period 2020-2024 will not solve the problem. Given, in particular, that some 1,000 annual retirements are taking place in Osakidetza, trade unions claim or report that retirement vacancies are barely going to be filled. In addition, they suggest that Osakidetza needs urgent solutions that cannot be delayed by an entire legislature with the virulence with which the current pandemic is affecting us. Also on the table of these demands, of this strike, we are talking about the privatization of services. We know that you do not even share the term "privatization of services" in the current Osakidetza. We do share this view of the trade unions. Trade unions point out that the overburden of work, lack of means, eventuality, partiality in recruitment and lack of security measures are a structural problem of the health system that we currently have, but that it is further increased when certain services are made available to private hands, such as cleaning, ambulances, kitchens, cafeterias, etc. Turning a part of the healthcare system into a business object, for us, means that the companies that manage it are usually more concerned about optimizing their benefits than about ensuring a safe job and service, which is what Osakidetza would be concerned about. This is why the unions demand the reversal of the public system of outsourced services and a publication that guarantees the maintenance of employment and the working conditions of all staff. This seems to us to be an important claim, in the face of the public system we have, and that is why we want to know your opinion on it. Primary care. I would like not to extend because I do not have time and because you have already referred to this in the previous point. Primary care, for us, of course, is currently suffering from a collapse and, of course, an overload of work; a overload of work that is systematic and that at this time of the pandemic is being quite evident. The lack of investment in primary care is responsible for the current exhaustion of staff, which is what they are saying these days. This situation, as I said, does not occur only as a result of the pandemic and, of course, we do not want to minimize the impact that the pandemic is having on the system, we know it perfectly well. But a year ago this concrete claim was already made in three strike days called by the trade unions. Therefore, this concern should not be so new. And we think that, after those strikes last year, the Basque Government, instead of taking measures to tackle this problem, dedicated itself to putting on care patches, that the only thing they have managed to do is overload the professionals and, in any case, if it does not get worse, of course not to improve the quality of care offered to the population. Another year, also in 2019, the unions reported that this problem worsened with the arrival of the summer period. That summer primary care faced the summer period with a staff, according to them, decimated by the lack of replacements and coverage. This year, logically, to the usual overload suffered by the professionals, the workload resulting from the control and monitoring of the coronavirus is added, a task of which a very important part, as has been said, is assuming primary care. And we want to know your opinion on these issues raised by the trade unions these days of mobilizations, because we continue to see, despite their initial words, that the negotiation of the Osakidetza government with the trade unions is still lacking. Otherwise, they wouldn't be on strike these days. In a context as complicated as the current one, dialogue should have been enhanced, agreements reached previously and collective bargaining should be resolutely promoted. That is why we want to know what the department is proposing to answer the questions raised by the unions these days. It seems to us essential, in the face of this second wave, that the department and Osakidetza resolve these issues and this important conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u100	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. To answer it, Mrs. Apple.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u101	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Of course I share, Mr Hernández, that we are in an exceptional and unthinkable situation. Look, it is not my intention to move here the debates, discussions or negotiations that the various bureaux and meetings have with the trade unions. Nor do I want to go into assessing the demands of work and the justifications for mobilizations. My purpose is to explain clearly and simply the initiatives the department has in this area. And again remember that my hand is always open to dialogue. We are talking and we are still talking, I said it in my first speech as a Health Adviser, and I repeat it here today in this House. I think it's time for dialogue, yes, I think so too, and not confrontation. In the field of human resources, different actions are proposed: consolidation and expansion of the workforce. The reality shows us that we have a percentage of potential staff whose activities do not respond to short-term tasks of fixed duration, but are responding to organizational needs of a permanent and structural nature, needs arising from new infrastructures, projects and services. There's a number, not the whole, but there's a number. At present, in order to contribute to a better dimensioning of our structures and being aware of the need to continue to respond to organizational needs of a permanent and structural nature, a study is being carried out on recruitment of an eventual nature, in order to determine what percentage of eventuality is to be consolidated as a structure. The functional posts decree of 2005, which defines categories and posts, requires an update to respond to new organizational models, including new professional profiles such as, for example, in the field of research or adaptation to the new catalogue of qualifications. Stabilization, public offer of employment. The public offer of employment 2016-2017 is currently being finalized, which we hope will be completed for all the categories that were called for in March 2021. In addition, the process of negotiating the distribution of the offer of 3,335 places corresponding to the OPEs of 2018-2019 will begin to establish the distribution of the professional groups in order to continue with the programming of the calls and their execution. Alongside this, measures to be introduced in the management systems of the OPE processes to speed up their resolution will be discussed. Mobility, transfer contest. The agreement of 27 November 2019 of the Board of Directors of Osakidetza-Vasco de Saúde establishes the basis of the procedure of the open and permanent transfer competition for the provision of basic destinations in the public body Osakidetza-Vasco de Saúde. The agreement aims to respond to the need to lay down new bases for voluntary procedures with more regularity in the award of destinations and which will further facilitate the reconciliation of work and family life. Recruitment system. Formulas should be sought to improve the quality of recruitment. To this end, a process of negotiating a new temporary recruitment agreement for implementation and implementation with the 2016-2017 OPE resolution will be initiated at the sectoral table. The aim is to adapt certain aspects of the temporary recruitment lists in order to improve them, with greater efficiency, efficiency, agility and transparency, by promoting stability in the provision of temporary services. An analysis will also be initiated to present a proposal for criteria that identify hard-to-cover positions and measures that can promote their coverage. Occupational health. The health management of its workers is carried out with an integrated and integrated approach, considering health as a cross-cutting element, promoting the health and well-being culture of our workers. The current context, with the pandemic caused by COVID-19, has highlighted the importance of risk prevention. A powerful information, communication and training strategy has been implemented in the field of prevention of COVID infection among staff. The aim is to provide all staff with the necessary knowledge to minimize the potential risks arising from health care. It is necessary to ensure that health professionals can continue to carry out their work safely and with regular monitoring of their health status. To this end, different protocols are established, such as the protocol for the detection and follow-up of SARS-CoV-2 infection in professionals in Osakidetza or the follow-up of professionals with basic or vulnerable diseases. Strategic material reserve. Being aware of the need for a strategic reserve of material for the acquisition, management and distribution of material, two measures have been taken: the establishment of a corporate purchasing system in a logistics distribution centre, which centralizes the reception and distribution of material. Ultimately, the aim is to ensure the availability of the individualized protection equipment needed to ensure the protection and safety of women workers. Psychosocial risks. In the area of the Corporate Commission on Safety and Health at Work, during 2019 the approach of the risk assessment of psychosocial factors was continued with the aim of approving the protocol for the assessment of psychosocial factors. This assessment of the psychosocial area pursues the same objectives as in other areas of prevention. It intends to identify and evaluate the psychosocial risk factors present in a work situation in order to eliminate, mitigate or optimize it, establishing appropriate preventive measures. Emotional support for workers. The main objective of the programme of action is to provide a psycho-emotional response from the psychiatric services of the health organizations of Osakidetza and the centers and services dependent on the three mental health networks of Osakidetza to address, support and attempt to minimize the emotional impact on groups affected by coronavirus infection. Conciliation. One of the pillars of the Equality Plan is to facilitate the corresponding reconciliation of the staff. Among the actions to be worked on and developed are to carry out an analysis of the existing conciliation measures in Osakidetza and their enjoyment provided between men and women; to analyse the possible implementation of time flexibility measures in order to avoid, as far as possible, reductions in working hours; to conduct a study of best conciliation practices in organizations with problems comparable to those in Osakidetza. As you see, they are a set of measures and a set of areas that we have planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u103	Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko, Madam Counsellor, for his answer to my question, although I think he has answered me with measures that if I do not misunderstand it are, basically, those that are already collected in the government program. We will have on Monday in the Health Committee of this Parliament to listen to you, I suppose, your presentation on these measures, on their planning, on the planning of the department for this legislature. Beyond going to appreciate what we think is right, wrong or regular about these concrete measures, which, moreover, we will have occasion, as I say, on Monday... I don't think it responds explicitly to what my question really is, because I was asking you about your position or how you will respond to the approaches that the unions have put on the table with this strike. Unless I have to deduce that the response that you consider appropriate to the approaches that the unions are making these days is simply the government program that you have put forward. I have to deduce this, that the unions, I understand, before holding this strike that yesterday had their first day here in Araba, they already knew, because it is already public, the government agreement and many of those measures that you are proposing and that, moreover, if I have not misunderstood you, you will have been able to transfer them directly. Look, we wanted to ask you about this issue because, as I say, we are concerned that in this second wave we have our public health professionals on a strike, and because we do not believe that these people, whom we all share who have shown great responsibility, are following a strike, as I said before, for pilgrim reasons. And I'm sure you don't consider it that way either. So, there's a problem. And, therefore, some kind of concrete response must be given to the specific approaches they are making. Of course, that's our opinion. And we think that, given a series of measures that they already knew, planned by the government, that strike remains in effect these days, after listening to you today, as they would call off the next two strike days they have. Knowing these approaches, that strike is still underway, is that you are not giving an adequate response, of course, at least to resolve the conflict. And, in our view, this conflict is motivated by serious approaches on the part of the trade unions and which we share. And that's why we ask – I don't like to ask the government, it's an expression that I usually use very little – to negotiate on the concrete measures that the unions are putting forward regarding Osakidetza. Surely, if they come to an agreement, which we will be deeply, deeply pleased with, that agreement will certainly not really please the trade unions. Even sometimes it happens that some will like it more and others less. And it will certainly also change, in some way, your policies and the approaches that you have explained to me in your speech. But, of course, we are convinced that, if that happens, it will be good for the country. And at the moment if the answer is that we already have that government program and that this is the answer we give to the unions, because we see it complicated. We ask you to make public health a priority. That's easy to say. That, surely, we can all say. This pandemic has shown us that a strong health with sufficient human and material resources is essential for collective well-being. We think that the best tribute – I have certainly already said it on some occasion and you have heard me say it – to the professionals on the part of Basque society, after the applause we gave them, is, in fact, to comply with the rules of prevention. But we also think that the best tribute that the Basque Government can and should pay to them is to listen to them, negotiate with them and give concrete answers to their demands. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u104	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u105	Mr Hernandez, I've already told you that I'm not going to go into evaluations of mobilizations. What I have moved to you is what initiatives and planned measures we have in the area of personnel and services in Osakidetza, because, for this Government, public health is already a priority, we do not have to make it a priority. I have already told you that investment in equipment, people and materials throughout the Department of Health is constant, and will continue to be. In particular, Osakidetza is an organization that provides continuous health care to all people living in Euskadi 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, in which we have up to 39,000 people working. And so, people with high professional qualifications, with knowledge that they must constantly update for the advances of science and with new emerging technologies that we have to successfully integrate into our organization. That has only one goal, it can only have one goal, which is to improve the attention we are giving to the Basque population, and always from excellent professionals and with excellent professionals. We now face challenges such as democratic concentration, population ageing, chronic management, the emergence of multipathologies, the COVID-19... All this in a context in which technological advances also require continuous updating. That's what we're trying to do, what we're offering. Osakidetza has been adapting its organizational model for years. It is also currently being done, with the aim of improving coordination between professionals and, therefore, the care we give to patients. We are aware that this is not possible without the involvement and professionalism of the people working in Osakidetza. We are aware that they are the great value. And we want to take care of them, and we take care of them. I have already held a first meeting with all the trade unions represented at the negotiating table. We have agreed on many of our approaches. I sincerely believe that the solution is possible and that, in order to do so, we both have to demonstrate our will for understanding, both sides. For our part, for mine, the door is open. And our hand will always be stretched out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The sixteenth theme in the theme list: "To ask the question, by the lawmakers of the River Iriarte EH Collectors to the chief physician of the Medical Department, about the construction of a large center in the Government Union." Mr. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u107	Good morning to all of you and especially to the mayors and delegates of the TOPA, who came from Tolyse. Good morning. Chief of the cider department, it's been years since we've been proclaiming the Public ESI and the Public Hospital in the Tolsea and the Basque Country. In years, Mr Jon Darpón was the chief physician of the Urkullus, he was the passionate defender of the private public example ESI. But in the last elections, in 2018, EAJ made the appeal to the public hospital. Welcome. Now, in the programme of government which you have lately introduced, you have shown the intention of constructing a great center of resolution. But to know whether we all speak of the same things, I ask you today: Is this gonna be the new public hospital the mayor of Toulouse and the operators are calling for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u108	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u109	Mrs. President of the Parliament. I understand well the request of the mayor and of all the local representatives of the county or the quadrants to install the best health resources in their villages or around them, giving priority to emergencies and hospitals. I understand them well. But, as you may understand, the production of new sub-structions, or the construction of new structures, must answer the criteria of land, population, organization, and attention. And the department must consider all these criteria, and determine them according to necessity and means. The center projecting for Toulouse is defined in the health section of EAJ and PSE's government program, in the second section: To build a center of great resolution in the township of Toulouse. That's right, but we're still specifying that project. We define it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u111	The head of the cider department, the inhabitants of the district, the agents, the unions, and one with them, the Basque Country, the same services as the other health centres. We've filled all the claims, and we deserve as much service as the other countries. This subject has already passed through the hands of too many departments: Rafael Ben, Jon Darpón, Merene Murga... And now, Mrs. Appledui, it's in your hands. Let's not waste any more time, please. The Public Hospital and Public EI is what we're asking for. And for that, Mayor of Toulouse, operators and citizens are very clear to us that we will continue to work for it, because that's our right and that's what we're asking the Basque and Medical Department. It's funny that we'd like to clear up here. And he was like this two weeks ago: "It's written in our region to build public hospitals," public hospitals, clear and clear, "and our engagement is firm and real." So today, even from your mouth, we'd like to ask whether this centre, this building, is a public hospital, is like the public hospital in other countries, with equal service cards, and whether the public will be provided with a public ESI. And perhaps your lack of accuracy will explain things to us now, old boy. We're used to these vague details. And we're used to giving the clinics in Asunciice what would have to be a public hospital in consequence of this lack of accuracy. We had only recently heard that in Asuncia Klinik offered better services than he had ever been, and that he offered services of higher quality than other ESIs. Now, that's a question. The Medical Department has been in the middle of a year, and we're asking for some transparency. You've got a chance to turn the situation around, we've got it. We have the opportunity to give an answer to the privations placed on the table by Pandemia, 21. 21th to the society of the century. We have a chance to plan and develop the health system of the century. For this purpose the inhabitants of the district are ready, the mayors, and have created the health fund for this purpose. Here, take the hand that's held out to you. "Take it and do your work, and don't leave the other chief of the departments on the schedule where they put it on the table and what's in your hands." Let's build the Public EI, which will be a hundred percent public, and integrated with the public hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u112	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u113	As I have said, in understanding the legitimate intentions and opinions of the Mayors of Tolsoleus, I think it is important to state that the concept of medical planning must determine the necessity and priority of investment. And we must also say that the inhabitants of the Tolsea are protected by Eukarian health. Anyway, the Medical Department doesn't know if there's a uniform request for all the mayors of Toulouse. Several requests were issued to us: To be introduced into the public network at Asunciium, to build a new hospital, to offer structure to the sociomatical clinic, or to return to the state in reference to foreign consuls at Toulouse. So the first thing is to let it appear that in the past years many requests have been sent to the Medical Department. He has recently acquired strength to establish a hospital in the ESI district of Tolsea, and the object of the government program is to build and supply a positivity of aid in the land of EsI of Tolsalus. It's still a device to specify. You need to make a functional plan to determine the help services that will be opened at the ESI of Tolsea. We're putting everything together. We are considering the value of a highly distinguished center, a conventional radiology, an OTA, etc., with diagnostic capabilities that involve the ability to make an ambulance, with hospital depreciations, radioology and laboratorys, whether or not it is a proper hospital for a day's ambulance. We're even getting the request to be a regular hospital. As has been said, everything will be according to the functional plan which is to be carried on to act on such an activity. And don't worry, we won't leave it on the schedule, I'm sure it's our responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Ask me, Laura Garrido Knörre Eusquila Popular Group," the members of the Ciudads made to the head physician of the Medical Department, "about the new measures of strengthening health." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief physician, head physician of the Medical Department. Well, the situation of the covid's incidence in Euskadi is clearly troubling; the data so corroborate it. On several occasions already in this second wave of the pandemic we have reached record figures. Yesterday the number of 1,206 cases. Especially, as you well know, counselor, are the contagions among young people, which represent the bulk of the positives that are taking place right now. It should also be noted at this time that there are 76 people in the ICUs, that in the last 12 days there has been an increase of 50% and that it represents a total of 32%. Therefore, being better than other autonomous communities, as Mr Lehendakari told us this morning, I do not think it is a source of comfort at all, because we are certainly worse than other autonomous communities, and tomorrow we can even be the one with the highest number of contagions. Mr Lehendakari also told us this morning that drastic measures must be taken and decisions taken. It will undoubtedly have to be, and we will support those measures as long as they are backed by rigorous technical criteria. But precisely for that reason, Madam Counsellor, it must have been the lehendakari who appeared on Monday afternoon and not you, who deserve all due respect, to explain precisely those measures. You will understand that in this very critical scenario we claim the presence of the highest responsible of the Basque Government, as is happening in other autonomous communities, in which the people who are appearing mainly are the highest presidents. Because, if not, we run the risk of obviously giving the feeling that the lump is leaking or that the lehendakari in this situation wants to go a little unnoticed. At the moment, we also believe from the People's PartyCitizens coalition that it is necessary to carry out an exercise of complete transparency and to convey clear messages, not changing messages and contradictory messages, as has happened in relation to the criteria that this Government is following in relation to confinement. Eight days ago we were told that the confinements were useless and meaningless, and last Monday, eight days later, we were told that the confinements make sense and a confinement is decreed not only regional but provincial. Madam Counsellor, and as far as your department is concerned, in this very complicated scenario where contagion is increasing, income, where we have saturated primary care, collapsed telephone services, doctors' quotas are also increasing, the number of trackers is seeing itself being clearly scarce, what measures are you going to take as responsible for Basque health to strengthen health care at such a complicated time?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u116	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u117	Thank you, President. Mrs Garrido, you questioned me today, didn't you? That's what we're talking about today, isn't it? I hesitated, but I'll answer you. I believe that, throughout the previous interventions, there has been a record of the actions being undertaken by the Department of Health to strengthen the health system, not only with a view to tackling this new wave of the pandemic, but also to strengthening our health system for the challenges that the future that exists after COVID requires and now also requires. The direct measures, strengthening of the staff, organizational positions to equip us with greater agility, disposition of all necessary protective materials, adequacy of the facilities to accommodate more sick... and more and more measures. And we have already mentioned, we have been mentioning them during all the interventions that we are being asked for, indirect measures as well, those that can condition the pressure on the health system. He also knows them, and the latest are those adopted by the Advisory Council of the Basque Civil Protection Plan to prevent the spread of the virus. I also include here the information campaigns to citizens and even the effort in flu vaccination that we are making to avoid the confluence of the two diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Garrido andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u119	Yes, Counselor, transparency, clarity and leadership. And, above all, at such a difficult and critical time, that leadership belongs to Mr Lehendakari. Less changing criteria, less improvisation and more measures, Madam Counsellor, when, moreover, we are the autonomous community that we spend the most on health per inhabitant, 1,801 euros. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to ask them for more measures and more effort in this regard to avoid complicated situations as unfortunately they can come. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u120	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In answer, Madam Chief, Mrs. Cedui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u121	I still have the answer to the question. Apart from the appropriate actions to hospitals according to the protocol provided for the reception of ICUs covid, the concrete, immediate measures, in primary care I have already said, but I repeat them again. To the same question, the same answer, cannot be otherwise. Implementation of new places, both nursing and family medicine. We have already commented that this was already started in June with 23 administrative assistants, five primary care pharmacy positions and four physiotherapists. We will continue to implement new places. Stabilization of staffing and recruitment to assist in strengthening activities, necessary programmes; increase of tracking equipment and, I told you, we said that there were 600, now there are more than 600, already we are continuously incorporating new professionals into the network. Temporary recruitment of modules to facilitate the sectorization of the centers and the control of patient queues for the conduct of tests. Acquisition and renovation of materials and equipment to improve diagnostic capacity and rehabilitation and expansion of spaces and new consultations. Opening of face-to-face consultations ensuring the safety of patients and professionals; progressive deployment of telematics consultation. Implementation of a plan to reduce bureaucracy and medical consultations by establishing collaborations with the Departments of Education, with the Medical Inspectorate. Even the indication, use and dispensation of medicines not subject to medical prescription and other health products by the nurse, according to Royal Decree 945/2015 of 23 October, Mrs. Garrido. They are measures and they are concrete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interregation, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a popular, a member of the Ciudads, a member of the political series of Cultural and Language, in regard to the migration of certain programmes through the channels of euscal public television." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Well, on October 11, Basque public television broadcast a report about the Civil Guard called La Guardia Civil, a state within the state, in which this body of corrupt, torturer, repressive institution in Catalonia is treated, among other qualifications. More recently, the same public television, ours, that of all, has issued a program entitled Euskal Herria y liberté, directed by a French filmmaker and whose rights would also have acquired our television, and which presents the head of the terrorist band ETA Josu Ternera, Jose Antonio Urrutikoetxea, as a man of peace. It is not the first time that the public media has issued programmes in order to attack common institutions, in one case, or with the intention of whitewashing the criminal trajectories of persons who have belonged to or collaborated with the terrorist gang. I can quote you, Mr. Counsellor, many examples of visions such as little equidistant: Portraits, in 2010, Speak the Eyes, 2012, The Legacy of Txiki and Otaegi, The Lost Footprints, The Children of the Backpack. We are still waiting for the implementation of the Victims Act of 2008 – twelve years: twelve years, Mr. Counsellor, twelve years, Mr. Zupiria – which is a law that obliges the promotion of the commitment of the media, particularly the public, with democratic values, human rights, peace, freedom, ensuring that the expressions contrary to them do not have room in the public media. The 2020 government programme has, at last, included the development of the law, which we are still waiting for, as I say, twelve years later. In addition, there are also examples of programmes that clearly seek to undermine, discredit – not only criticize – the common institutions, all of them, and present us with a so-called low-quality Spanish democracy, not to mention a banana republic. The monarchy is a frequent goal, as is the crisis and corruption in Madrid. This is a phrase that has already been silenced, permeated by other political groups in this House, which once, at another time, also criticized it. All this compared, of course, with the Eden that is always the Government, the Government always led by the Basque Nationalist Party, which is the Eden in front of that system of total corruption that prevails in Spain. I can give you many examples: The Strategy of the Crisp; The Crown Virus; Spain, increasingly ultra; Philip VI, the last king of Spain; Tortures, the best hidden crime; The Tentacles of the Interior. This, for not forgetting monographs dedicated to parties considered contrary to the ideology and the tendency of the Government, for example, the People's Party: The pride of Aznar; The dark side of the PP or Citizen Operation, what is behind it? All this not to mention because certain techniques much more concrete, subliminal, such as the typical map that we all know, which includes Navarre, the Basque Country French, the obsession not to pronounce the word Spain – always to pronounce the word State – which leads to situations that are, the truth, kafkianas, rozambolescas. And, well, the part of not taking the king's speech and another series of stories. Mark, all of it, from the house. This marked ideological bias of certain programmes clearly responds to a political intention, which is to create a state of opinion that is clearly favourable to certain political interests. This, in itself, from journalistic ethics itself, could be reprehensible in a private environment, but it is already intolerable in a public environment. It's intolerable. All this, moreover, from a public television that is of the most expensive that exists in Spain, of the most expensive. What is done, moreover, with much of this money? For this campaign of contempt for the common institutions, which feeds the confrontation, leads to nothing but the development of a political programme which, in addition, aims to exclude others. We have the case that a number of reliable producers are always used. There are some – which we have already touched in this Parliament – of which it was, moreover, or which at the time belonged to which it is still, by the way, director of the ETB, which has also produced quite a few of the programs that I have quoted before and which from 2014 to 2018 went from hiring with public television 200,000 euros to 3.2 million euros. The truth is, it's a round business. They make a homeland, they make a business and, in passing, they make the friends happy. The truth is that all this is done with public money. Again I insist, from a private medium of communication it could be critical, reprehensible, etc., but it is a private medium; but this is a public medium. The legislation itself, the legislation itself that I will now quote, obliges the television radio itself to respect pluralism, not only plurality, but then I will insist on that dual concept. Recently, when the director of the ETB had to be appointed, which we have learned, as is usually the case, from the press, a proposal was made, a GNP, in this Parliament, to deal with it in addition urgently and to try, above all, to discuss how to elect the director of the ETB. Well, since they have invoked their majority in the Bureau, they have postponed the discussion, postponed the discussion of the non-law proposal and, meanwhile, has already been appointed, has been appointed the new director of the ETB. When he has touched to replace him and when he has had to be appointed this director of the ETB, he has chosen to appoint someone from the house, not from the ETB, but from the large house, right?, of Sabin Etxea. In any European country, with which they always say they want to compare themselves in the Basque Government, this would have already led not to the resignation of the adviser responsible for the field, but to the very fall even of a government. Such appointments must be made by public invitation to tender, with advice from an external committee and with appearances on the public radio monitoring committee. There are also personnel issues that I will not address today because we are still requesting information from the Government itself, but they have a number of those categories, which are already creating jurisprudence, because there is no longer any remedy, indefinite, not fixed. There are a large number of workers in a rather precarious situation, which is due to the forms of recruitment they are undergoing. What are the purposes of a public television? What's the use of public television? What's it supposed to do? Look, a public television has to be used to provide news and information in an impartial manner, to help people understand the environment around them; it has to be used to support the learning of people of all ages and to contribute to critical training, critical opinion on the local environment itself, the national environment itself, the international environment itself, always respecting political, economic and social pluralism. And this, Mr. Counselor, the truth is you're about to see. Article 3 of the EITB Act itself, which has recently been cited in this Parliament, already speaks of a number of principles that must be respected: objectivity, truthfulness, impartiality, distinction and separation between opinion and information, respect for the principle of equality, political, religious, social and cultural pluralism; defence, promotion of civic values of coexistence recognized in the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy, respect for the rest of the rights recognized in the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy, respect for honour, the reputation of people; protection of youth and children and the promotion of Basque culture and language. Man, except for section h, the promotion of Basque language and culture, the rest the truth is that it is still to be fulfilled. Or, as you say, challenges. These are challenges that are still to be met. It is clear that the law of public radio is not being complied with. It is such a lack of independence – but it is known to all in this Chamber, it is that I am only pointing to the king who is naked – it is such a lack of independence and so grave the ideological bias, which is that even the lehendakari himself this morning has had no choice but to recognize in regard to some programs that clearly whitened terrorism that, man, a greater balance of voices would have been desirable. Even the lehendakari himself has ended up recognizing him. In this context, Mr Councillor, and I conclude, it is essential to know which model of public television is the one that the Government defends, what is the purpose and social benefit of maintaining one of the most expensive public televisions in Spain and which represents only part of society. For this reason, Mr. Counsellor, I ask you in the following way: what are your department's aims or position on the clear ideological bias and the lack of pluralism that exists in as many public television programmes as those referred to above? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u124	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u125	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, Mr. Gordillo, good noon. The EITB Creation Act only speaks of the Basque Government twice. First, it does so in articles 16 and 19, which establish the procedures for the election or termination of the Director-General and also establish the responsibility of the Government in both processes. Secondly, it does so in Articles 23 and 24. In the 23rd it leaves to the Basque Government the power to set the programming obligations arising from the public service that the means of EITB must fulfil. Article 24 gives the Basque Government the power to arrange and disseminate as many official statements or communications of public interest as it deems necessary. All other issues affecting the Basque public communication group are left to this Parliament, the EITB board of directors, the general management and the group's professionals. You are free to do as you see fit in this House and to bring, of course, to this plenary as many questions as you see fit. And I have no doubt that he will. His political coalition, by virtue of the representation he obtained in the last autonomic elections in July, will have his proper presence on the board of directors of EITB, the governing body of the group where all the issues that have to do with its functioning and where the government is not. You have the right and the representation that allows you to participate in the management of EITB. Similarly, on the basis of that same popular representation, you are a member of the EITB Control Commission, a parliamentary body where the law has established the responsibility for monitoring and controlling the functioning of EITB and its programmes and contents. I would suggest that the debate lead to this committee, because I think that is where the issues which, in your opinion, affect the functioning of EITB should be raised. The Government has established and will establish the programming obligations that EITB must fulfil, as it has been so far, in the programme contract, which should be renewed by 2021. Therefore, these are the plans that the Government has with regard to EITB, the ones that establish the Creation Act. And don't ask us to go any further. And I invite you to put forward the initiatives that you consider appropriate wherever you should. I've been an EITB professional, I've been director of the EITB media, and now I'm a Culture Advisor. I have always tried to defend the autonomy of EITB's media, freedom of thought and professional ontology of people performing their tasks in the fields of information, entertainment, programming or adaptation and broadcasting of audiovisual signals of all kinds in the EITB group. I try, and have tried, to avoid interference that would limit the professional freedom of the people and media of EITB, whether from the government or from opposition groups. And I will not go into assessing ideological, editorial or political considerations that you have made about the EITB line. It is true that EITB has received many criticisms from many, not to say from all, the political and social groups, to the point of not satisfying anyone, the Government, the government parties or the opposition groups. I believe that this should be the case, as is the case with all the public and private media in this country and others that I have had the opportunity to get to know closely. I defend the professionalism of the workers and managers who do information and entertainment in EITB, whether these journalists, programmers, engineers, cameras or technicians. I defend their professionalism and defend the autonomy with which they must carry out their task, which is often controlled, as it should be, by this Parliament and evaluated daily by the citizenry, the first and last reason for being a public medium, because this citizen, with his daily decisions, with daily consumption options, supports or obviates EITB's television, radio or internet broadcasts. As a citizen I reserve the right to criticism. As a government spokesman and Culture Advisor, I have been asked about an EITB issue entitled Euskal Herria eta askatasuna. It is an independent audiovisual work of French nationality, promoted by a French audiovisual creator, which has received public funding from a large number of French institutions, almost all of them public. A documentary involving, among others, two former ministers of the French Government and a large number of French political representatives. As a spokesman for the Government, I have little to say about the contents of this documentary. I have seen it and, in short, I would say that it captures the views of those responsible for the left abertzale who, after many years of connivance or complicity, finally pushed the end of violence in their movement. It also shows the views of some of the international representatives who accompanied the leaders of the Abertzale left in the process. And it also shows the testimonies of some of the people who participated in the public representation of ETA disarmament. I would add, as a personal opinion, that the truth of what happened, of what actually happened in our country with regard to the end of ETA's terrorist violence and the story of those involved in the documentary film do not coincide. The story of the documentary goes one way and reality has gone another. And little more I can say about this content. However, before the end and, from the respect of the decisions of the EITB professionals, I would like to add two considerations which are the same as that made by the Lehendakari at the first hour of the morning. One. It is not easy to understand that the issuance of a documentary, programmed to recall the end of the use of violence by ETA, of a use of violence for political purposes, is limited to collecting the testimony of one party; it would have been preferable to have had the opportunity to hear other voices and views that the documentary broadcast does not offer. And two. It also seems to me critical that a documentary that recalls the end of the illegitimate and unjust violence that ETA practiced does not capture the opinion or testimony of any of the victims that that terrorism caused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u126	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Zupiria, Counsellor, for the explanations. Above all, for the last part in what I understand is that it is also your recognition, as spokesman for the Basque Government, of what it has been possible to suppose the issue of these documentaries, by calling them in some way, on many groups of people, and particularly the victims. And, in that regard, I thank him for his intervention. I also understand the first part as the last responsible, you, the politician and management of your council, deriving control, of course, from the board of directors of EITB, where, indeed, political groups are represented, among others, not only, but yes, the parliamentary groups of this House. But, man, political groups name people and are there – we also name and we will appoint a representative – but, obviously, in the end, the government always secures a majority. And, above all, we have seen it in the form of selection and in the form of direction and, above all, in the form of designation of what the directors or managers of the EITB are. That is why I believe it is important to start from the basis of recognition of the situation. I believe, Mr. Counsellor, that – surely you also acknowledge with me – the ETB has systemic structural and systematic recurring problems. And I believe it is time to address them and I trust that we will be able to develop a public television that respects not only plurality, but also pluralism. You have not entered that debate, but it is customary that when you criticize the lack of pluralism, in this case, of the Basque public media or the EITB, you draw up a document in which the times of intervention of different political leaders appear. That's plurality. Pluralism is something else. Pluralism is to recognize diversity as a positive value and even to promote it. And, above all, do not establish a control at the absolute end by the political group in this dominant case which gradually creates a more or less permanent and, above all, more or less influential current of opinion also in the rest of the media. Because it must not be forgotten that public television has a lot of media in its favor. The control of the public media by governments is very recurrent in all advanced democracies, and it is much discussed. And I sincerely believe that it is possible – I wish, what happens is that they have not yet done so – to have a truly independent and, above all, truly impartial means of public communication that is devoted to the three principles I have told you before. The three principles I have told you before the ETB Act itself develops are the principles of operation, for example, of the UK BBC. That's the purpose of having a public television. Because the opposite is to have another means, which ends up being controlled by a party, by a certain political power, that what it does is, simply, moreover, to compete – by the way, with a certain unfair competition – with the private media that you also know because you have also been director of a private media, and therefore you know perfectly well what we are talking about. He tells me that, with a standard approach in the government, the government here has simply attached to this agency, but that, well, that the agency is actually autonomous, has its advice, has its director, etc.... Director who will appoint you. Person, moreover, of maximum confidence. Do not tell me that the director you have appointed is not of your utmost confidence, personal, political, etc. Man, a man of the house; I believe that this is something that we see absolutely all the groups in this House, even you yourselves. "No, he's got a management profile." Well, what's a management profile? "No, he handles it. That he manages well." But well, a means of communication like ETB, what is it? A clothing factory? No, it's just something else. That is why it is so important who is the director and why we have proposed an amendment to the proposal that has been tabled, which has been tabled by another political group, concerning the process of selecting the director of the EITB, which is so important. In summary, Mr. Counsellor, I thank you for the explanations, and I even see some self-criticism in them. But above all, what is necessary is to correct this situation and, indeed, to do so as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u128	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. The sap won't speak. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Gustavo Angulo García, together with the members of the Podemos-IU, a member of the political department of Cultura and Language, a friend of culture." Mr. Angulo, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u129	Hello. Thank you very much, President, from the seat. Mr Councilman, last October 24th you stated in The Basque Journal that culture should not have a special response to the crisis. I have to say that it was a headline that I miss very much, because since countless administrations of the world, including this one, has operated just the opposite. COVID-19 is seriously affecting the cultural life of our communities. Cultural spaces are suffering the pandemic in a special way, some of them remain closed and those who have opened have to do so with special measures to be able to develop their activity. Workers in the cultural sector, who are often in an already precarious situation, are running out of income for months. The active participation of people in the cultural life of the community is greatly affected by COVID-19, as well as the well-being and quality of our democracy. Why do you think culture should not receive that special response to the crisis?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u130	Mr. Zupiria.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u131	I don't know what to do because you haven't asked me the question you announced. I don't know which one to answer, whether to the advertised one or to the one you've done to me here. I'm going to try to fulfill my obligation. I have the impression that this health crisis that began in March will extend over time, and that its consequences will still be noticed for several weeks, months. That is why I think it will be necessary to take more support measures, and we are in touch with the representatives of the different cultural associations and institutions, in order to analyse what other measures can be taken. The consequences of the crisis on the world of culture are different, and each requires differentiated responses. There should be a distinction, first of all, between the public and private sectors. The cessation of activity or the decline in income has affected both, but the consequences are not comparable. In the public sphere, the decline in activity has led to a reduction in operating costs and has left many of the planned activities in museums, theatres, auditoriums, orchestras and all kinds of public institutions unattended. Similarly, this crisis is going to force public administrations to equalize the gap between income and expenditure in some public cultural institutions. In any case, it will not have an effect on the employment situation of public workers. The situation in the private sector is very different. The decline in activity has led to a very significant loss of turnover, and the stoppage has had a negative effect in terms of employment, especially in smaller companies and among self-employed workers. There have been many workers in ERTE, and there have been significant falls in social security affiliations. The situation is also different sector by sector. The most affected activities have been those that take place with the presence of the public, such as the performing arts, theatre and dance performances, street theatre, music concerts, cinemas or music halls. They are the weakest sectors in this situation and those that will need the most support. The incidence has been lower in larger companies and in those dedicated to audiovisual production or consumption on digital reading and audiovisual platforms. In short, those in the worst situation are private professional agents, micro-symes and self-employed and intermittent contractors of performing arts, such as theatre, music and dance. They are also the worst prospects for the coming months and we will have to pay more attention to them. The lack of precise information on the situation of quite a few professionals and the difficulty of matching their situation with the criteria with which the institutions work is an added difficulty in addressing aid policies in some cases. I have received with satisfaction the announcement by the Government of Spain to approve, within its competence in the field of unemployment benefits, the announcement to approve, on the one hand, the extension of the subsidy paid last May by public entertainment artists, as well as the approval of an exceptional unemployment benefit intended for the world of technicians. I hope you will find the formula to do so, because it will be a reference for other public authorities. For our part, we will continue to contact representatives of the world of culture, with the aim of promoting cultural activity and designing new lines of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u132	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u133	Well, I've made a "cut and stick" of the question you asked, and it wasn't the answer, because you in the article talked about that culture shouldn't receive a special answer in this crisis. For us this is not the case, culture would have received a special response in the crisis. Yes, it does have to be in a separate drawer, because the values that culture offers are not the same as those that can offer another industrial activity. I am not going to underestimate the support that the Basque Government is giving to culture, which, well, there have been few. But I do question the way they've been given. They have been exclusive aid and could have been additional aid, as has already been said at the time. A circuit for live arts has also been created this week, but it has only been five days for artists to be able to sign up for this new circuit. It's been a long crisis and as long as the pandemic lasts we're going to have valley moments and peak moments. That is why, from here, I urge you to consider culture as a special good, not for those who make it up, but for the result of your work. I have a friend who says that whoever can the most can the least. I am not saying that we have to choose from one another, but that we are taking advantage of the financial opportunities that are currently being offered to us to review cultural policies, to support the resumption of their activity and to project it towards a future. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u134	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u135	Mr. Angle, I don't want to argue. But I simply remind you that the question you have asked me is: Do you consider the measures taken by the Basque Government for the cultural sector to be sufficient in the face of the current economic crisis as a result of the pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u136	The twentieth point in the theme list: "Interpelation by the American parliamentary team of the Carmelo Barrio Barroja Rascals, the President of Tourism, commerce, and Kotsumo, in front of COVID-19 of the Moeral Program." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I am going to refer to the question I am making, because it seems very interesting to me and because it seems very concrete to me, and the Government can give us some references and some keys. Things have changed, you will know that this debate has already had it in the House and that these issues have been discussed, but well... A lot has happened since 2019. And it is true that a special response to the crisis is also needed here. And that's what we're going to try to value and remember. I don't want to go too far, because I'd like to know your opinion and that's what this is about. For the third consecutive year, there is an exclusion of the pharmacy offices from the order of the program of support to the modernization of the commercial establishments, now, moreover, entitled "Before the COVID-19". We have talked about this, and the Government, in fact, has failed to convince us in previous speeches of this exclusion, neither my group nor of course the pharmacists. There is now a new situation, I mean that we all live in, but there is also the political situation, a new mandate, a new adviser and more priorities and more commercial action, also in terms of how to act, commercial, in the pharmacy offices. And, as I said, a year ago we were also discussing this situation in the House, but some conditions have changed and have changed a lot. The health situation there is and so far many things have happened that have to do with the role that the pharmacy offices play, and increased with their constant willingness to collaborate. Collaboration between schools, between the offices themselves, between the Administration... This public-private collaboration that is exemplary within what is the professional landscape in this country, with its commercial benefits also increased by the situation we live in and by the new future challenges of the pharmacy offices. I shall refer briefly. Without going further, the role of pharmacies as shops in the very implementation of the electronic recipe between European countries, which is already being implemented in some countries and which, according to information coming from the Ministry of Health, around 2022 it is intended that Spain is also within this possibility. There the pharmacy offices are going to play an essential role as they are now playing with the electronic recipe that has been implemented and that has affected the autonomous communities, and for which we are all now on the net. The interoperable electronic recipe in 22 countries of the European Union is what is intended. This will intensify the role of pharmacies in their contacts with more customers, in this case with the citizens of other European Union countries who visit us and who need to go to a commercial establishment of these characteristics, and, as I said, planned for Spain in 2022. There may be some delay in relation to what we are experiencing and the health priorities, but it is a plan that is there, because, in addition, it has already been carried out in other countries of the Union. This will require reforms, digital adaptations, informatics, important, as required by the Spanish electronic recipe, as required by the day-to-day business establishments called pharmacies, pharmacy offices. The electronic prescription will now also be extended to private doctors, it will also require new software, or the adaptation of those they already have. Connection requirements with the public health network that are changing every day and that have to be implemented, constant updates in these digital telematic processes, verification of medicines for their quality, a fundamental element in the face of the user, the customer of the pharmacy, the verification, one of the major themes of the pharmacy, the storage and the robotization that is integrated in many of our pharmacies and that is constantly implemented to new marketing formulas. For there are the important elements of commercial activity and the contact of pharmacists with their customers, which are all of us. I mean, the pharmacy is proximity trade, it is. A proximity trade, in addition, paradigmatic, exemplary. A health centre, in fact, or even a social health centre, as far as the advice is concerned, for many of the issues affecting the daily activity of the pharmacist. It is also a private center of public interest, it is also a reference in rural centers in relation to contact with... The mixing of this commercial activity also with other activities. We do not understand and, that is the fundamental thing, we still do not understand. Let us hope that you, Mr Hurtado, can explain this to us in order to give a chance and a way out of all this. We do not understand how they are deprived of the help of the Department of Commerce. That is why we would ask you to include them again after these three years of incomprehensible rejection. Therefore, in view of the fact that Article 3 of the Order 30 June 2020 of the Councillor – her predecessor – on Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, which regulates and convenes for the financial year 2020 the programme of support for the modernization of commercial establishments before COVID-19 – in addition, this factor affects in a special way these commercial establishments that are the pharmacies – she says that they will not be beneficiaries of regulated aid, among other things, "Pharmaceacies: retail trade in medicines, health products and personal hygiene". We don't understand, at times like that. And that is why, Mr. Counsellor, what is the purpose of the Basque Government in relation to this which I have just explained to you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u138	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u139	Egun on, good morning again. Mr Barrio, as you have commented and acknowledged, you again transfer to this House the exclusion of the pharmacy offices from the orders that call the program, in this case the modernization of commercial establishments before the COVID-19. An inquiry that you mentioned that you transferred to the full control of June 14, 2019, although in this case you did not go to this department, but to the Department of Health. And then he presented a motion before which, in the plenary session in which it was discussed, different arguments were heard but for a purpose that was common to all, it was rejected. Mr Barrio, I know that you are aware and have explained that we are living in an unprecedented situation, such as the pandemic generated by COVID19, and the negative impact you are having on the sector I represent, among others. We cannot forget the images of our closed shops for the security measures that have been adopted and that have done so much damage to this sector that continues to fight and will continue to fight to get ahead. In fact, you refer to one, the IAE 6521, of the five excluded in the order of 30 June 2020. It's not just the one you mention, it's five. And I can assure you that these exclusions are due to rigorous foundations and analysis, and under no circumstances to a discretionary will. And we do not see the recognition for the work and dedication of the professionals who work in the pharmacy offices. The Strategic Plan for Tourism, Trade and Consumption 2017-2020 contains a specific section, the Master Plan for Trade, which sets out the points of situation analysis, the policies to be applied and the priorities set for aid to the sector, and the reasons for considering pharmacy offices different from general commercial establishments for the purposes of aid. And those reasons are two. On the one hand, the implementing rules and the characterisation of the establishment itself. Secondly, the economic situation or the impact of the crisis. The basic regulations affecting the pharmacy offices are Law 11/1994 of 17 June 1994 on Pharmaceutical Management of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Among the objectives pursued by this law are, among other things, to ensure adequate and uniform pharmaceutical care for citizens through a reasonable distribution of establishments. To this end, the pharmaceutical zones are established on the basis of technical health criteria, which set the number of pharmacy offices by demarcation and number of inhabitants. This is a basic and radical difference between one type of establishment and another. But there's more. Pharmacy offices are included in the Basque Health System and have their own matching plans and lines of help to the new circumstances that are emerging. I will remind you of what the previous Health Advisor, Nekane Murga, transmitted to you on June 14, 2019. It echoed the collaboration between the Department of Health and the official schools of pharmacists, which has resulted in various agreements establishing formulas and conditions for different treatments; also, I remind you again, the economic compensations that in pharmacies of economic viability committed to a series of objective data fix to the beneficiary establishments. In the previous discussions, the efforts of the pharmacy offices to incorporate the e-prescription into their management were put on the table. You also mentioned it here today. Well, recognizing that this represented a remarkable modernization effort, it should be noted that for this purpose the approximately 480 pharmacy offices received EUR 2 million, which has a relatively higher impact than the modernisation aid programme of my department, to which it refers today. From the specific regulations governing the pharmacy offices and the consequent special characterisation, elements are derived that show the differences between the trading establishments and them, and that have an impact on their economic situation, and at present also by the impact of the crisis. Therefore, the first conclusion we can make is that the concept of free competition is distorted in the case of pharmacy offices, since the number of them is not based on private initiative, but rather on the Pharmaceutical Ordering Act which governs the conditions for their opening. Another condition that differentiates one establishment from another, and since the law has among its objectives that the medicinal product is dispensed with with due guarantees of control and information to the user, is the qualification required of the owners and holders of the pharmacy offices, which are considered technical health professionals of the medicinal product. Nor should we forget that the body of activity of the pharmacy offices is the correct dispensation of the drugs and not the sale of other products that are allowed to offer to the user. Well, these differences have been taken into account in issuing the latest orders that have regulated and convened programmes to support the modernisation of commercial establishments. This decision is based on the reflection and conclusions of the Euskadi Strategic Plan for Tourism, Trade and Consumption, which includes the Master Plan for Trade, which, among all initiatives and programmes, incorporates this aid for the modernisation of commercial establishments. The documents I have mentioned describe this as a programme aimed at the commercial sector in general, in order to promote modernisation and competitiveness. This is a very important aspect, as it is directly linked to the possibility of free competition. The same paragraph states that this programme must include measures aimed at prioritising headings and areas where it is considered more necessary to encourage and provide investments aimed at the renovation and modernisation of their equipment, encouraging investments linked to viability plans and promoting technological modernisation of retail trade. I am aware, Your Honor, that when the heading "IAE 6529 Pharmacies: retailing of medicines, health products and personal hygiene" was included among those excluded from the aid, it has been taken into account that technological modernisation had taken place in the pharmacy offices following the implementation of this electronic prescription, and had had the corresponding help line. Nor has it been obvious that pharmacies' viability plans already have their support, because when priority had to be given, it was done with the type of trade that was considered most vulnerable by the economic situation and with the greatest need for technological adaptation. The urban retail sector was considered a priority, given the importance for our municipalities and neighbourhoods of a renewed and competitive commercial fabric. I hope, Mr. Barrio, that I have clarified your position. And I do not know whether I have convinced you that the measures to which you refer are based on reasonable, thoughtful and contrasting criteria, and that they respond to a need to prioritize the fate of public aid, which is finite, not infinite. Finally, let me also reiterate my strong support for and recognition of the work of the pharmacy offices as an essential service that guarantees citizens adequate and homogeneous pharmaceutical care, and an effective supply of medicines, with a fair price and accepted and safe quality. And I agree with many of the statements you have made on your essential role, on the effort of the electronic card, on the importance of these establishments, but I think I have responded to the substance of the question of the differentiation of these establishments over others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u140	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u141	Thank you, President, thank you, counselor. Well, we see that there is, of course, that restrictive criterion, precisely at a time like this, of the relevance of the role of pharmacies, of the importance, the need to be, to be there close to the citizen and to continue carrying out a basic commercial activity. Why have they been integrated into these aids for years? You can tell me that the electronic recipe... It's just that the electronic recipe is going to be something dynamic and it's going to be something that's going to be developed over time. Every day the questions of verification of medicines for the quality of this commercial e-prescription service within the European Union and their needs will be increased; that is, we may have to look for another location for these aids, another name, even another department in which to locate them... But, well, you are part of a collegiate body, which is the Governing Council and what we have to get out of is the action, the activity of these commercial establishments. You have asked us a question about very cold criteria, Mr. Counsellor. We are talking about a commercial dimension, regulated proximity trade and, of course, you cannot mix that with other dimensions that also have the pharmacy office and pharmacists. You have talked about agreements, yes, health agreements that establish professional pharmaceutical schools with Osakidetza, with the Department of Health, yes, and that has a health dimension and has, I suppose, an economic contribution, because you have to implement certain actions in the pharmacy offices. It is very common in other countries. In other countries they even vaccine, or make PCRs. And, well, not yet, but... I mean, it's a trade that has to be always dynamic, prepared in many keys. And in health care, it is. But in commercials, too, it has to be. And if there is a Business Master Plan, something can be done, it will be a dynamic plan. But the commercial function is there. We have said this at times, it is possible that at some point much of the trade aid provided for in the aid orders has been carried out. But, well, those aids are expanding. Or specific aid is being developed for this type of commercial activity, is it not? But, of course, pharmacy offices also continue to suffer the consequences of the crisis. And in this case, they're going to have a lot more spending to do and a lot more investment to do. Look, the situation of the pharmacy offices is also exemplary in Euskadi. The number of pharmacists per pharmacy – 2019 data – was 3.3 on average. That is, higher than the whole of Spain, of course, 2.4. But above all the countries of the European Union, the richest. That is, in that sense, those 834 pharmacy offices – I say again, that they are some more or some less now, I don't know, 2019 data – those 834 pharmacy offices are constantly making an effort of professionalism and work that is also integrated in quality as a commercial establishment that they are, right? In addition, take them out of a heading of shopping centers or commercial establishments... Look, in addition to the strictly health function and the regulated function set by the Pharmaceutical Ordering Act, we have to talk about that they are pure and hard businesses, that is: safe cosmetics, child feeding, personal hygiene, baby care, pedology, homeopathy, parapharmacy, safe sex... I mean, they're commercial establishments that have their customers, because like many others, right? Like a bakery that sells bread. They are an example of a commercial establishment, Mr. Counsellor. That is, I think we need to reach an agreement in this legislature so that there are some sort of aid orders, because their role as a commercial establishment will be relevant. I say again that I understand that someone could have influenced them three years ago from that aid plan. But I say again that the dimension, if it is the dimension of modernization so far, is a modernization that follows. And that, from now on, is even more relevant than the one you have now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u142	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Barrio, well, I'm going to do a reflection. And I will admit that I was not aware of this matter until this question of this week you have raised has arrived. I've heard the department, I've heard the reasoning. I have read the order, I have read the inquiry you made, I have read the motion. In fact, there are paragraphs you have repeated; you have not updated the 2019 data you commented on the previous time. And I'm honest with you. Yesterday I could not understand what the motivation was to bring this same matter back today. So, I made a hypothesis: "Well, circumstances have changed." That you have not said any reason why they have changed on the basis of the criteria I have told you. Moreover, during the state of alarm many shops had to close, and pharmacies remained essential services. I don't think that's the reason. Secondly, another hypothesis is made, which is more colloquial but which has already happened to me sometimes. Well, in the Congress of Deputies, with the matter of the controllers, an illustrious Member, whose position I did not reach to know what it was, in the end it was very simple: it was by a family member, by closeness to a person in the sector. I understand that's not the motivation either. Another is that you have some special relationship with the sector, also legitimate; I understand that not. And the other one, who wants to confront you in this sector, in this department, which we, I think... And I have recognized it, and I share your appreciation of the importance you have and of all that we have done. Well, I think you sort of answered that in the second intervention. You have tried, you have said: "The Health Advisor has changed, the Trade and Tourism Advisor has changed... Let's see if they change the department's criteria." Well, the department's criteria are fixed, it's explained. We explained it to him in 2019; we explained it to him again today. And we're gonna keep it. But, well, I've also asked for information about your questions. You, in the last legislature, asked a great number of questions about this sector. In this one, we just started, and so did we. I mean, I have to admit you're more expert than I am. I will tell you that we are going to draw up a new business plan, a hospitality plan, and a global strategy for tourism and trade. Well, and I'll move that this reflection back to it when that new plan is made. But I understand that the criteria are the same, they are well explained, they are well detailed, and the decision is correct. But like everything else, it can be reviewed in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-30.u144	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-three.
