ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, Ekain Rico Lezama, Mien Gallastegui Oyarzábal and Iturbe lawmates. Please let them come in. Welcome. First point in theme list: "Separation of the Temporary Committee of Independence, the compatibility condition of candidates for Senators of the Esupal Autonomical Senate. There is a debate and a final decision, and there may be a vote for the election of senators." Any members of the board would like to speak for the judgment? Do any of the legislatures want to speak against or against the judgment? We'll simply vote for the Institutions of the Temporary Committee. This first vote is for the test, okay? Let's all hope we're all right. It won't work, will it? Then we'll do another one. You can vote. [[Pause]] It's a test of the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u1	Okay. Well, we know how it's done, don't we? Well, now we'll do the real thing. Yeah, yeah? Is there a problem? Yeah? [[Berber]] What's in the light or not? Or nothing? [[Pause]] [[Berber]] Okay, now we're gonna do it real. You can vote for the crime. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; votes in favor, 73; opponents on the contrary, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u2	So the judgment has been accepted. Next, each member of the legislature, from the smallest to the greatest, will take five minutes, except the Mist, which is a third of the time. Yeah? Talk... ? Bai, Martinez andrea? [[Berber]] I should have voted. The first was evidence, and the second was definitive. [[Berber]] According to the 4/1981 law of Senators named Eukadi, the vote will be made by the tickets, and in the tickets the name of a single candidate will be written. Every member of the legislature, a spokesman, will nominate his candidate. The most successful candidates will be elected, always appointed, if they take a quarter of the votes of the legislatures who have the right to vote. If, at the first vote, a senator's rank remains unordered, the second vote will be made, and the candidates who are the most willing to vote will be elected. If a draw occurs, either the group with the most of the seats in the legislature or the party with which it is proposed will be selected. If the voters have the same number of seats, the political party, or the political parties who have obtained the vote in the last elections of the Basque Association, will be elected by the political party or by the coalition which they have won. Candidates? Yes, the Social Party?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u3	Yeah. From the Socialist Group, Antonio Jounián Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u4	From EH Collect? [[Berber]] And what about the Eucan patriots?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u5	On behalf of the eubertarians, we present Estephanía Beltrán de Heedia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u6	Make a number, please, first secretary. Sixty-nine. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; votes for Beltrán de Heredia, 22; votes for the roads, 20; votes for the Rodríguez, 19; abstsion, 13.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u7	Thus the ladies and gentlemen have chosen to be Senators: Estephanía Beltán de Heredia, Madame de Idreu, and Mr. Antonio Rodríguez. According to the 8th article of the 8th Law of March 18/1981, the chosen senators must be informed of their nomination and requested to accept the nomination. After that, the nomination will be accepted, and it will be declared that they represent the senator of Euscadi. Senators, ladies and gentlemen, please enter the drawing room. Mrs. Herdia at Beltrán de Heredia, I am formally informed that Bilcura, the House of Parliament, has formally appointed a senator of Euscadi's senator. Do you consent to be a senator? Ladies and gentlemen, I am formally informed that the House of Parliament has formally designated you as the representative of Euskadi's senator. Do you consent to be a senator? Mr. Rodríguez, I am formally informed that Bilcura of the Parliament has formally appointed you as the representative of Euscadi's senator. Do you consent to be a senator? So Estephanía Beltrán de Herdia Larizzo, the Gabant of the Wedres, and Antonio Rodríguez, Esquerdo, is declared to represent the senatorate of Euskadia. 8. Of Law 4/1981 in the same manner as Article 232, and Article of the Rule of the Common-wealth. Take your places. Welcome. Second point on the subject list: "To discuss first, and to change the rule of the Eubert, the EH, the Basque Socialists, and together by parlamentary groups of Podemos-IU, to change the rule of the Basque Act. Discipline and final resolution. Following the set by the table on the 15th of September 2020, this initiative will be transmitted as quickly as possible at the entire meeting and by a single reading process. On the side shift, who wants to participate? So, Unidas Podemos. Mrs. Hatage, won't you join the side shift? From here? Well, I'll give you five minutes, and then what you want. Mrs. Hatage, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u8	Yes, I said from the seat because what I have to say is very little. I think that in the explanation the reason is sufficiently evident, what the meaning is... We think there is no need to explain more than this, and therefore we think that our vote can only be explained and that our vote can be true.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists. Mr. Amazel.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u10	The head of the table, Mr. President, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, all good days. There is no doubt that we are living in an exceptional situation, a situation of which Parliament is not at all alien. It is neither a time to waste time nor to get involved in barren debates. This Parliament must certainly respond to citizens' demands, and to that end we must ensure the full functioning of this House, guarantee the principle of representation. We cannot afford the risk of paralysing parliamentary activity for a mere question of inefficiency in establishing the regulatory tools that will enable us to develop, act and put at the service of the citizens and of this House everything necessary for it to continue to carry out its task even in truly exceptional circumstances. This Chamber can't be out of play. In the modification and adaptation of our rule, we must have tools to face this situation. I do not deny that we have also the opportunity to enter further changes into the rule, but this time we shall see at the fair fair and present meeting the arrangements that are not urgent, will be discussed and worked on by another way. The participation of parliamentarians in the daily activity of the House must be by fully guaranteeing the health measures for us to carry out the work of debate, control and political impulse, more necessary today than ever to overcome this unprecedented health crisis. This legislature will be a challenge for this House as long as we do not overcome the present situation. Nor do I have any doubt that all Members of Parliament represented in this House, in accordance with our responsibility, will put on our side to rise to the occasion and to what Basque society deserves. Issues that seemed untouchable at another time, such as the delegation of votes or the use of day-to-day telematics tools in Parliament, are absolutely indispensable in these circumstances. Parliament is certainly an essential service for Basque society. Therefore, it must remain fully active in order for it to carry out its legislative work under the proper conditions. According to the text presented by the signatory groups, we are promoting work carried out jointly with the legal services of the House, to which I would especially like to thank you for your work. That's why, and because we have to go forward with the necessary adaptation, we're demanding a favourable vote from the Socialist Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u11	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. EHGG rep. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u12	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. At the beginning of this adaptation of rule, we are remarking that at the beginning of all parliaments the Sanitarian, economic, and social crisis created by SARS-CoV-2 Birus has brought a new challenge to all parliaments. It is true, we are in the presence of a new challenge, but fortunately the difficulties which this virus has caused this legislature are easily solved, but not the crises we have just pointed out. The agreement we bring to-day has been merely a matter of will, and in confidence, in the Persistent Computation, and in all the attempts of the Chamber's Table, we have insisted on doing something that we have insisted on: In front of the exception state, you must take exception to these measures. And that is what we have agreed on by the proposing groups. Exceptional measures, not without first leaving us hairs in the catera, as happens in many negotiations, because for EH Bildu in this case the most important thing was to reach an agreement, an agreement to guarantee the right of political participation to all parliamentarians and to be able to exercise, with guarantees, at any time and under these exceptional circumstances, the work of control and impulse to the Government, which is what defines, among other issues, our parliamentary work. This proposition receives the change of four articles of rule, and adds one last regulation. Thanks to these changes, we'll use the new technology, we'll be able to make telematic sessions. Thus, when extraordinary circumstances prevent us from coming to our abode, we shall be able to participate in several attempts. That is to say, we shall always end up in the necessity of coming to these gatherings, with the prior consent of the table. On the other hand, these adaptations spread cases of voting intervention. We must remember, until now, that this right was only planned in the case of motherhood or parenthood. From now on, those who have serious illnesses and cases of hospitalization will be considered or considered to demand a vote on the right hand. This is a necessary agreement, as well as simple and logical. I think we are really privileged and privileged, because the damage that COVID-19 has done to this parliamentary seat, as far as headquarters is concerned, is solved with masks, with gels, with bulkheads and with such a quick and simple agreement. Much more complicated will be to deal with the consequences that the virus has caused to citizens, to industry, to millions of workers, to the health system, to education, to the care system, to the first sector, to the third..., because this is really where we have to prove that there is political will and that we can reach agreements so quickly. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. As the spokesman said before, COVID-19 has been beating our lives hard for months. Some of our lives have been shaken up and things have changed completely in the last few days. Even in us, even in the legislature, the legislative is the pattern of this society. And in that sense, our diary has had obvious changes in the past few months. In the past few weeks and months, we have been exposed to the difficulties which it presented to us to adapt the changes we needed, to the holes in our regulations, or to this new state. And when there are serious problems, we must quickly answer. And when the measurements are clear, the agreements are easily obtained. And in this case, to a serious problem, to a general problem, clear measures, precise measures, and reasonable measures. And when things are reasonable, when propositions are reasonable, and when made with liberality, the agreements are easily obtained. That's what you need for: that every one's will and his propositions are reasonable, logical, and acceptable. In this case, too, we had the support of the Juridic Offices of the Parliament. It was they who made the text. And all we have to do is comb them. In this sense, thanks be to the Juridic Offices of the Parliament, but not to them alone. It is also a good thing for the last few months, for trouble, for many workers who have guaranteed to maintain the work of this legislature: Juridic services, technical services, translators, messengers... Well, to all the members of the legislature, thank you, because you've given us the chance and help to ensure the political delegation and division of the citizens. Let us hope this, this sad situation, let us forget it as soon as possible. And that these particular measures which we take or propose to-day may remain, only in particular measures to answer particular circumstances, and return to normality as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u15	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Basque Popular. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u16	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. It is "Euskal Talde Popularra-Citizens" the parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen, Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, good morning to all. Briefly, and greeting in this first speech before the plenary, in ordinary session, especially the new compañeras and compañeros. My group, Popular-Citizens, wants to express its agreement, in general terms, with the proposal for this bill. We would have liked to have been able to study its content more calmly and have been able to make or discuss some proposal that we considered enriching and perfecting the text, but it could not have been on this occasion. It was clear that a reform of the Rules of Procedure was necessary with regard to the delegation of the vote in certain cases, the telematic vote, the telematic sessions... We have seen the impact of the pandemic on parliamentary work. And the complicated and regrettable appearance of the Permanent Chamber in recent months has demonstrated – among other things – the need for clarification and order in matters affecting the functioning of the representative work of the members of the House, and the control and impetus of government action at all times. In any case, and to be recorded, it is an insufficient reform, in relation to the needs for speeding up, for control, for impulse, for guarantees of such control, for that parliamentary impetus, but we believe that the adoption of the fifth item of the agenda will allow further work on the further regulatory reform. It should also be noted that neither in the explanatory statement nor in the proposal, which mentions Articles 103 and 106 concerning the urgency procedure and the single reading, does reference be made to the first additional provision of the Regulation, which refers precisely to the reform of the Regulation. It's a formal question, but it's striking his absence. My group also raised two questions in writing with regard to Article 75 bis of the proposal. On the one hand, we believe that, among the sessions that can be held in a non-personal or telematic way, explicit reference should be made to those of the Permanent Chamber – more than anything to avoid doubts. We have seen a distorted functioning of the Permanent Chamber in the past few months. And, in that sense, we understand that, despite what is said in Rule 66.6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament, neither the meetings of the Permanent Chamber nor its functioning have been subject to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the plenary. On the other hand, the expression "extraordinary circumstances" in that article seems to us to be too inconcrete or broad to justify the holding of non-presental sessions. We believe that a reference should have been made to the restriction of these "extraordinary circumstances" on the freedom of movement or the right of movement of parliamentarians. Well, there are some issues that we will actually find. At the moment they are comfortable with the need, the urgency, because we have to take this decision, but these, among many other issues, we will be able to address them if it is adopted, if it is the presentation referred to in the fifth item of today's agenda. That's all, thank you very much. We shall vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u17	Thank you. Not on the counter shift. So, we're going to the vote. [[Silent]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Now that the discussion's over, we'll vote. So we can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 74; the contrary, 0; Abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u18	So unanimously accepts the proposal of changing the rule of the Basque Parliament. Next up is a vote description. Myst. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours. Stand up, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u19	Yeah. ... is that everything (...) parliamentary functioning is positive. I also think it is appropriate to adapt to the new situations we are experiencing, such as the COVID-19. There is no doubt that we need to evolve, to the extent possible, into a working environment that allows us to continue to exercise our functions and obligations, even if exceptional situations, such as the one we have experienced with this pandemic, change our way of life. Therefore, our vote will be in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u20	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Third point in theme list: "To collect the proposition as a parlamentary group, concerning the measures to be taken against the SARS-CoV-2 virus. To discuss and to decide once and for all." Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to introduce and defend initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u21	Good morning, everyone. First, I would like to welcome him to the legislature again, like the head of the health department this time, to the lady cider, to see if we can work together in this legislation. Your challenge in this legislation is useless. You have to spread out the ship of the Oslation that is sinking into it, for the sake of the battle, the pattern of government must be changed; the agreement of the workers of the Oscillion, which is not renewed from 2009, must be renewed. And herein is the reason why the negotiation must be recovered with the unions. The temporary condition of the planet must be ended; the first breach of attention, which is entirely dissolved, must be taken to be a proper means of actual preparation and attention, and at last be put to work. As a matter of fact, I'd like to give you an idea to start working in that direction, if you see it right, to set it up: Creation of health establishment and prevention. So that in hospitals to mark criteria and strategic furrows from it, first in attention and in public health, which will bring to us those documents which you have received in the Government. In other words, this is supposed to strengthen the first care and public health services, not only to prevent the coronabirus, but to modify the public health system, based on collective prevention. In fact, I'd like to take advantage of my first engagement to thank Mrs. Murga. I want to thank him for giving me his face. I don't share his management, but I'm grateful to him he's faceless as others have not given him the director of the Osar. I know it doesn't mean you don't work in media, but it was from that charge that he'd face her. The question of Osademia is not pandemia, it is not coronavirus; leave-out, want of resource, fraud-based policy, first attention bringing him as a pure hospital philtro, understanding... They're saying the first immediate professionals: The concept Jada First Mindation doesn't exist in the Office. It doesn't exist. It's gone." And it is not enough to govern, or to say, that there is will for mutuall, and Covenant. So I need you to explain why you haven't solved the first question of attention, because I want to remember that the first attention agencies have been in conversation with the government for three long years. I remember, in the pandemae's veterinary veterinators, the first chief attention operators said to me: "Wait a minute, because we have a meeting with the government." Well, to-day! It was remarkable before the pandemic decay of co-operation, and COVID put us in front of the mirror. The only thing that COVID has done is to reveal more than ever the deficiencies that were present. For the past few years, the overwork of professionals has been preserved, somehow, quality, but this has a limit. And to preserve that quality, resources, resources, resources and resources are required. And, of course, to take responsibility for the government, not only for the pandemy but also for the usual activities. It is not enough to ask the people to be responsibilities, or to lay fines on them, when the government was the first to abolish and demerit its responsibility. The government itself. And I'll give you examples. The government doesn't like the rules it's granted. And a small example: On order of August 19th, the staff of the farms will be registered from a license or holiday return before their return to work. He had accepted the order, and two weeks had not yet been completed. And that's what you've got in an institution. Or another example: and the answers have nothing to do with the regulation. Our public health system is no longer capable of answering at the same time to the pandemy and ordinary activity, and we cannot keep this situation long, because the consequences which it brings will be very serious. Look, Miss Appleui, I can understand in front of the first wave that no one could foresee, well, we must answer, we reject or withdraw our usual activity, and let us go to what comes to our answers." Good. Then he comes back to our descale, and we resume our usual routine, with but little planning and very little resources, and so on, but today is the day that we can no longer face. And what happens in the end? We do not respond to panic efficiently, but we do not respond to the usual activity. What's going on with chronics, or, in front of imaginary diseases, diagnostics, or health suspects? Example: health insurance. This week Mr. Zupiria came out of the press to advertise the aid of the Moments for the town councils, and at the same time prohibited all initiatives from the Health Department and the Board of Education in this program for medical discovery. As a friend of mine says, "In the name of health, we'll kill health." And another example: In the first wave, clear circuits, sealed circuits... It's logical. Even before the first positives, we in private had given him the proposal to separate the circuits. At the hospital in Donostia: sick coronarians begin to preach Polychlinka. Today is the day Polychlinia can't take any more patients. So, what does the hospital in Donostia do? The anestestheist and cariologist put him to work as an intensive, without forming. Is it serious? I leave it there. And a thousand examples of this kind. We haven't changed the parameters from the first wave. We haven't learned, and we've had months to learn. To answer all this, we are making several proposals from January. No success. For if we take measures to face the pandemia, it will help us to respond to all other activities as we ought to. Yeah, what's not a COVID? Or was it the government's decision? "Well, let's not be overbalanced by the budget." It may be a decision. It's allowed, we don't share it. So, to cover the pandemic hole, other holes have been opened. And here are the keys, the first attention, the epidemicologists, the public health services... These are keys that you need to have other resources. So, trackers. 36 new contractions were made. And all the rest, up to 270, were taken from other places. So they're doing their job in other places and the rest of them. And while we're talking about it, Mrs. Cedui, these contractions end in the middle of October, what's going to happen? What I want to remember is that in the first wave there were other hospitals that had been recruited and instead of conducting them to their first attention, the contract was over. So we have a chance to put people into forms and trackers from other professionals, all kinds of categories, but, please, we've got a lot of long waits in rehab. It is true that the differences from each EI to each other are great. And then we've built different networks and co-ordination... It's everything: The epidemicologists, the watermakers, are continuing the schools, and where is the coordination? We also require full transparency in information, information is required. And not just information. Work with the councils and the associations and entities that can influence the network. And what we're asking is to let the people know where and on what level the infections are being distributed, because it can help sharpen preventive measures in certain places, because what has really happened with information has been very serious. The mathematicians of EHU made some reports to predict the scene, which was public until the 15th of July, but since then we don't know. Or another example of what's going on right now. You see, journalists get telegrams through the course of the schools, the development of the pandemos. Do we get parlamentary groups? No. Is that the institutional respect? Is that an institutional partnership? I throw him out, let each one answer. We're asking that you force the epidemic educologist under the Public Medical Director. Look, we've got 28 techniques, two-thirds of them provisional. From March to June, the rest of 24, and from June nothing. And... Portifer, Mrs Garasto, these techniques of educologists are on the level with the law in the scale already existed. It is therefore necessary to reform, and to rethink a great deal of things about this equipment, because they are important in the case of health, prevention, and not only to oppose the coronabirus, or to prevent future pandemies. Even the Sanitarian Council must take a turn because we can't be on the brink all the time, because that's what brings it down and we lose calls on 12th. Look, from June to September 30, we've been working on 21, when 23 jobs were, and we had a bag of 17 people to fill up the gaps. And first of all, what shall I say? The situation of the first attention is really extremely troubling. For a week on the phone, you have to wait two weeks! There's an awful problem with the interrogations! You see, the situation is so alarming that the attorneys are warned by professionals, saying: "Celephone diagnosis, be careful! "I don't know. If there's any mistakes in the diagnosis, they won't be able to defend them. Even at his own time there was a reform, a clean circuit, a dirty circuit. What happened? We had few personal resources like that, that they were the same doctors in the dirty and clean circuit, or the two circuits got mixed up in one hour. The constant attentions were closed. Now some have been opened, others are about to open, but they are less of service. What can I tell you about the healthhouses? I've got a long list here, it's happening in the sanitary homes... The restrictions that have already been given. And the nurses, crying and crying, are calling the chronic sick, saying: "I'm sorry, but we have to postpone the query." They don't get there, they don't get there! Yes or yes, we have to take the first kind of attention, yes or we must have the legislation of our first attention. They need resources, more personal ones, but not just resources and personal ones. Operation, organization, structure must be restructuring, must be changed, right? That's what professionals tell us. You have to change the rule. Look, before pandemy... Do you remember the medical attention of nurses? If those homework were over, we'd be better off in the pandema. But they didn't finish, so that's what caused it. And we have many examples of this kind. So we have to put our resources on one side to prevent the pandemia because we can't always follow it. Now the data seems to be going to stabilize, but we know what the facts have, and we know that maybe in two weeks we can find ourselves in another situation. It may be a nice moment, we have another chance to put the resources in order to face the pandemy, to respond efficiently to other needs that can be produced, because other needs are also creating. Now remember, that's a few, chronic consequences, that's leaving him. And, on the other hand, the daily activity... Membership must daily attend to several other areas in order to respond to them all. Yeah. Otherwise, because it's going to happen to us, the rest of the world will be abandoned. I'd like to end up with a question. Why, why shouldn't anyone answer me, why hasn't the first question of attention been solved until now? What has been said has now been given another chance, one more chance, to precede the virus, to reach the normal activity of the Osa as required, and to solve structural problems.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. We're gonna go over to the teams that filed the corrections. Together, the representatives of the Piedmontese People have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u23	Good morning, congressmen. For our parliamentary group, for Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, the measures they want to take in the fight against COVID – which is the initiative that the EH Bildu group has brought us, and that we have signed a transaction with them – we think they are of two types. On the one hand, measures of a character, perhaps more short-term, which were not on anyone's agenda a few months ago, and structural measures that Osakidetza needs, and to which the Basque Government, in our view, has been listening deafly for a long time. Some urgent or, perhaps, so-called, more short-term measures The PCR test is not just the sample collection we see in the Teleberri Despite the number of tests being carried out, they are being carried out with scarce resources and, above all, we are concerned, with an overload of work for laboratory technicians and technicians. In the words of one of these technicians a few weeks ago, "we're doing 24-hour infernal guards." It is therefore urgent, in our view, that the Government ease its workloads because otherwise, we will have a serious problem in autumn and winter, with the moment of greatest impact of respiratory infections. And the same is true with the trackers, whose work is fundamental to the control of the spread of the virus and whose scarcity has been warning the Government of different agents, including the College of Physicians. But, on the other hand, as I said at the beginning, we need measures and policies that we already needed before the pandemic and that in the action of the Basque Government were neither there nor were they expected, political measures that were being demanded year after year by the professionals of our public health, who were constantly facing the wall of the Basque Government. One of the things that Osakidetza's workers are saying is that the Basque Government neither listens nor dialogues, nor, much less, negotiates with them about the number of changes that our health system requires in order not to follow the path of its degradation. The new counselor says her door is open and shows willingness to dialogue. Of course, it won't be us who don't give him a chance. We also say that whenever you are willing to rectify, first of all, an attitude of non-negotiation, but also the action and policies of the Government that we do not share and, above all, that do not share the representatives of the workers of Osakidetza. But the truth is also that we are not before a new government, but rather before the continuation of the previous one. And we know that, unfortunately, it rains on wet. That is why we do not hold much hope, but we know that the public health workers are going to give the battle and, of course, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we are going to try to be at their side, on the streets, yes, but also here, in Parliament. That the workers of Osakidetza are saying "Honaino heldu gara" is no joke; it is precisely because the pandemic has come to burst the seams of a model of public health that has been thinned, mistreated and punished by externalization and by the unacceptable structural temporality that it suffers. A model produced by a government action, a model produced by a government that practices, as I said, unilaterality with respect to public health professionals and that converts the negotiating tables into mere briefings. We do not say that, all the representatives of our health professionals have said that every time they have passed through this House. Our health and the fight against the virus depend, to a large extent, on the professionals and professionals of Osakidetza. Therefore, for Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unitada, the first step the Government must take in the fight against COVID is precisely to attend to their approaches, their positions, their warnings and their criticisms, to sit down to listen to them, but to sit down to attend to them and negotiate with them what they are demanding in defense of better public health. That is why we proposed in our original amendment, first of all, that the Government urgently discuss a negotiation with the public health unions. Unions that not only want to talk about the working conditions of the workers, which is not alien to the quality of the system; the quality of the system depends heavily on those conditions and that seems to be something the Government does not want to assume. But the unions also want to talk about the model of public health itself, and we believe that the government here must also negotiate and talk to them. Reforms must be addressed in Osakidetza by the hand of the workers, because we think that they are the ones who know the weaknesses and shortcomings of the same. The proposals and approaches of the Osakidetza workers seek, in our opinion, to achieve a powerful and dignified public health, a health that has the necessary professionals for the population of Euskadi, structural professionals, with sufficient own resources to avoid waiting lists without deriving patients to the private system, seek a model that does not award unnecessary services to the private sector. And that is also, in our view, the reason why the Government does not attend to or dialogue too much, and much less negotiates, with our health professionals, because it does not share that model. Our Osakidetza workers have given everything and continue to give everything during the pandemic. We have come out to applaud them for months every afternoon, in a collective demonstration of gratitude and gratitude for their effort and sacrifice. And they're telling us that they're exhausted, that they need changes that they've already been claiming prior to the virus's arrival, or that we'll get to a point of no return. It cannot be that what they find in response is the same as what they have been finding in response to the last few years: nothingness. We must ensure adequate structural staffing and staffing, and that is to speed up the reversal of the rate of interinity, of temporality, in Osakidetza, something that is not done by announcing 4,000 recruitments, which will barely cover the retirements in this legislature. Good primary care, which is not available today, must be ensured; the waiting list must be reduced in health centres; accessibility to medical and nursing consultations must be accelerated. And that goes by devoting the necessary resources to primary care in each OSI. These are changes that must be made in Osakidetza as a necessary response to the pandemic, but not as a result of the pandemic; they are changes that our health system required prior to the arrival of this virus; they are changes that have been demanding of us those who best defend public health, those who are most concerned with having the best possible public health; changes that were claimed and that did not find a positive response in the Basque Government and in the Department of Health, which was sometimes more entertaining on other issues. At the moment, the responses given by the groups supporting the Government do not seem very hopeful to us, but, despite the majority that the Government has, if it does not respond to the changes demanded by the Osakidetza professionals, this Government will have a serious problem. Citizenship today is more aware than ever of the importance of a dignified, powerful and self-sufficient public health system. They say that from the pandemic you learn; I don't know if you learn, but I do believe that people have taken an important awareness of the fundamental role of the public in defending our health. I am not sure that the Basque Government has taken that same conscience. Of course, I believe that with these kinds of initiatives we are going to push him to this. Yesterday they opened in Donostia – I heard it this morning on Radio Euskadi as it came – a square in honor of the nurses, with that name. One of them, in the intervention, said that they were not heroines, that tributes can be very good, but that what they are claiming and what they need are changes, they are resources, and that they are not abused; that our public health professionals are heard, that if they are mobilized and are on the street it is not by chance, nor does it deserve or come from any contubernium of any kind. They are the ones who know the needs of our system. We ask the Basque Government to listen to them, to talk to them and to respond to their proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u24	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans is the representative of the group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u25	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Sailburuak, ongi etorriak. Eta Sagardui andreari, Osasuneko salilburuari, was ongi etorria eman nahi diot. Welcome, counselors. I would like to welcome the new Government, especially the new Health Adviser, Mrs Sagardui, whom we also wish her success in her new responsibility because, no doubt, that success will benefit all Basque citizens. We also want to acknowledge Mrs Murga. It is true that, over the course of these months, we have also highlighted those things that we considered to have not been done correctly, but we do want to take advantage, and I especially as the health spokesman of this group, want to take advantage of this thanks, especially for his public presentation, for having been there and, above all, for having been there in solitude. This image of loneliness has often attracted our attention, when the former Health Adviser appeared, taking into account the information that corresponded to this situation. Without a doubt, there are many challenges, Commissioner, which your department has, and without a doubt, one of them is also to address many of the shortcomings that have emerged as a result of the outbreak of this crisis. And, above all, it also draws attention to the fact that this system, on too many occasions, does not show how effective Basque citizens expect, when it has a budget of almost €4 billion and a per capita expenditure, in our autonomous community, of the highest in all of Spain: €1,801 per capita. Today we have a clear proposal to deal with SARS-CoV-2, the proposal brought by EH Collect here in this case. We've had different discussions on this subject, especially in the lasting division, but not in this complete meeting, and it's very grateful that we have the opportunity of having such a discussion at the moment. My memory also [is] for all those who die, And for those who are in a state of distress. And we, in our proposal, have received the important things that we think of. We don't want to do a big deal on this subject, but we have to put our problems on the table. And it is indispensable to seek out the necessary solutions. We have to correct a few things, and we'll have a better system if we do this. On 28 February, the first two cases were confirmed in Euskadi – one in Guipúzcoa, and the first in Alava. This led to Txagorritxu becoming the zero point of the contagions. It should be noted that, unfortunately, we have had the highest number of infected healthcare professionals in all of Spain. The first contagion occurred here, and also the first death of a health care provider. It must be said that all this situation and having a focus on Euskadi centered on hospitals created confusion, uncertainty. We also have to say that certain actions that were taken at first, and during the first few months, by the Councilwoman, by the Government, did not lead the population to feel calm. Especially because certain decisions were accompanied by too much improvisation; many of them arrived late; changes of constant criteria; delay in the performance of rapid tests to health professionals and to persons caring for residences – late, when we also had the focus on residences –; lack of protective material; change of protocols also constantly due to the lack of protective material; the episode of masks, statements in favor of, of themselves to masks, of not, of themselves to masks... One thing that we have denounced and found to be serious has been the absence of a specific body that was created in 2016 by Councillor Darpón to deal with these kinds of situations, such as the Advisory Council on Infectious Diseases. And not only since it was dispensed from this body, but it was replaced by a political committee, created ad hoc We think there's been too much improvisation. As I was saying, decisions that have come late, changes of opinion... and all this we believe has been due to a lack of specific plan. Changes in decisions that led, at first, to turn hospitals into the centre of care for people who thought they were suspected of being infected; then a phone, which from the beginning did not work, and to which citizens were constantly calling and getting no response, which also led to the citizens going to hospitals; then the criterion, which finally came, of arbitrating or setting up health centres as reference points to care for those who had symptoms of COVID. Not to mention the decision to go beyond and dispense with the satisfactory services of the Emergency Military Unit, as has been seen in the Community of Madrid. The current situation is undoubtedly still delicate. Today we know that this pandemic has claimed 62 lives in the last week, the highest number of this second wave – there are those who say it is the same wave, but in another phase – and 1,875 deceased. We also know today, Madam Councillor – there is not Mr Urkullu; we regret that he is not in such an important debate, but he will also have more important things to do, but we would have liked him to have been here – that Urkullu has not convened the Health Emergency Committee for a month. We would also like to know why this body is not convened. And we would also like, Madam Counsellor, for you, as soon as possible, to be able to design your organization chart, the people who will accompany you on your team, because I think it would be desirable that, well, that organization chart be designed, that team, also to take the relevant measures and to face the challenges we have, which are not few. We certainly believe that there are things that have come late: the issue of mass testing, the issue of the most vulnerable protection... I want to remember here the episode of residences. In this regard, I must also point out that this group has presented an initiative to review the model and analyse the residential model in the Basque Autonomous Community, in collaboration with the outside parliaments, and to take the appropriate decisions. There are two essential issues, namely to isolate the asymptomatic population, after identification, which has been seen as one of the main problems of the spread of the virus, and also to cut off the transmission chains. And the need for a vision – which I believe is what has also been lacking – comprehensive or comprehensive and preventive, a vision that allows us to act quickly and effectively in the face of this pandemic. As I said – I'm going to go very quickly for the time I have left – we have an initiative from the EH Bildu group. There is finally an agreement between the two groups. We're going to abstain. We would have liked to have picked up some of the issues that we raised in our alternative amendment. I do have to say that – well, in line with the groups that support the government – the amendment of the groups that support the government (the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party) seems to us to be a little short and that it does not do the proper self-criticism at the moment. I shall now explain our amendment, which, in the end, is the one that we are going to vote on and, obviously, the one that I am going to defend. Undoubtedly, we believe that the role should be enhanced, as I said, in the decision-making of the Advisory Council on Infectious Diseases, seeing that it has been completely dispensed with before. We must enhance your role and count on those professionals, Madam Counsellor, and I hope that will be so. There is no doubt that primary care needs to be strengthened. We expressly call for a review of the strategy for primary care in Euskadi. When this strategy, the last legislature, was presented, we already announced that it was insufficient, that it was patched up, that many measures were patched up many essential aspects in primary care, and that strategy was not due to short-, medium- and long-term measures. There is no doubt that there is also a need to strengthen and improve home care, health-care teams and the 112 service. We also think it is important, and so we carry it in our electoral programme, a fundamental aspect, which is to promote public health policies so that we can give that comprehensive and necessary response in similar pandemic situations, including specific lines of action aimed at raising public awareness and education for health. And finally, another issue, and I conclude, Madam President – I do not want to expand and to draw my attention in my first intervention – we believe that we need the government to improve the mechanisms for monitoring the virus's infection, contact and outbreak, as well as to increase the tracking team. I believe, Madam Counsellor, that if it were necessary, this time yes, it cannot be dispensed with with an aid that may be very necessary. We see how the Community of Madrid has again required the assistance of the army's professionals; there has also been an offer by the Government, in that there are army professionals, specifically trained to join the teams of the various autonomous communities. I therefore believe that this proposal covers the fundamental aspects, and that is what we will defend. Thank you, Madam President. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u26	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists represent the group. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u27	Thank you, President. Counselor, vice-lehendakari, egun on denori. Firstly, and since we are debating the measures to be taken to combat COVID-19, on behalf of the Basque Socialists I would like to express our condolences to the families and friends of all the victims who have not been able to overcome the disease and who have died here in Basque and also in the rest of the state. The secretary general of the Basque Socialists and the current vice-lehendakari, at the April meeting of the Permanent Council, said that in this unprecedented time that we are living in is more necessary than ever to share efforts, to share concerns and also to share solutions to the problems that we already have, because no one was prepared for something like this. The Basque Socialists consider, like the proponent of the initiative, that fighting the coronavirus is a joint responsibility of the institutions and of the citizenry, although at different levels, of course. The Basque Government is responsible for the governance of this health crisis, with Basque institutions, with outlaws and municipalities, and also with the Government of the State. That is why, and from the basis of what happened during the pandemic in this House, as well as from the commitments of the government agreement, and taking into account the measures proposed by the initiative presented by Bildu, the groups that we support to the government have tabled a joint amendment which we believe reflects, almost in its entirety, the original proposal made by Mrs Ubera, adapting it to the commitments that the Basque Government has made in this twelfth parliamentary term. That is why, in our amendment, we urged the Basque Government, and specifically the Department of Health, to continue to meet criteria of transparency and rigour, daily publishing the epidemiological bulletin, as well as other reports reflecting the main data and the most relevant information on the evolution of the pandemic. The Department of Health is also urged to provide such information without having to be limited to a certain frequency, but whenever necessary and determined by the situation of each moment. Secondly, we urged the Department of Health, in collaboration with the municipalities, to carry out campaigns aimed at empowering citizens, through the necessary training, to acquire habits that help prevent the transmission and spread of the virus. Thirdly, we urged the Department of Health to adapt and train PCR sample collection teams, trackers, nursing assistants, health advice and other personnel who are monitoring the contagions and contacts of infected people, so that care can be adequately and effectively carried out. Fourthly, we urged the Department of Health to make progress in stabilizing the staffing of public health services, as well as to strengthen primary care so that the service can be organized, so that all professionals can develop their work with quality and provide adequate attention to the needs generated by the COVID-19 pandemic. With regard to information and communication, the first point that you raised, Mrs Ubera, and which also raises the amendment of the groups that we support to the Government, with regard to information and communication of data on the evolution of the virus and disease, are numerous, if not innumerable, the information and publications that have been carried out from the Basque Government and from all institutional areas. As far as Euskadi is concerned, publications and public information have been implemented for a long time, for example, on the use of masks, the attitude to be maintained in workplaces, Osakidetza's recommendations, how to act when you get home, if you use public transport, if you shop... Home isolation measures have been published. The Department of Health has been publishing – and is publishing – a report on epidemiological surveillance of COVID during periods of descalation; the report on surveillance and control of cases and close contacts during the escalation phase is published; the protocol on epidemiological surveillance is published; the health adviser's orders are also public with exceptional measures in the area of mortality, in the area of cleaning and disinfection of surfaces and other hygienic measures, of preventive measures necessary to deal with the health crisis after passing the phase 3 of descalation. There are orders for the suspension of traditional markets; there are orders for special measures to contain epidemic outbreaks and the extension of measures to traditional markets. Disaggregated technical instructions for cleaning and disinfection of geriatric residences and other health centres, places of public concurrence, housing and common areas, housing and urbanization, waste in residential isolation homes, and public roads and public spaces are also published by the Deputy Health Adviser and the Directorate of Public Health. The epidemiological situation in Euskadi is also published daily by the Department of Health. It can therefore be said, without lacking the truth, that under criteria of transparency and rigour, multiple reports, instructions, orders, advice and bulletins have been prepared that give information and data about the pandemic and reflect measures and habits to follow against it in order to prevent, in the end, the transmission of the virus. Beyond the frequency of the publications, which are adapting to the evolution of the pandemic and the needs that are emerging as a result of the outbreaks, what the Basque Socialists consider to be important and fundamental is the maintenance of the commitment of the Department of Health and, therefore, of the Basque Government as a whole to the principles of transparency and rigour in an unprecedented pandemic and health crisis, which requires accurate data and accurate diagnoses so as not to err in the responses and measures to combat it. It is also, no doubt, more necessary than ever for the population to acquire habits that prevent the spread of the virus. And that is why in our amendment we urge the Department of Health, in collaboration with the municipalities, to carry out campaigns to empower citizens through the necessary training to acquire those habits that help prevent transmission, which you have also raised. We also urge in our amendment the Department of Health to train the teams and staff involved in the monitoring of contagions, adapting them to the needs that are emerging in order to provide adequate care and follow-up, in an effective manner, to the situation that is required at every moment. In our joint amendment, the Basque Socialists put forward a fourth point which includes, in some way, the claim to what Mrs Ubera and some other speakers from the parliamentary groups have said. Moreover, it is a key commitment of the government agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra, and it is the reinforcement of primary care and the stabilization of the staffing of public health services. The government agreement establishes a commitment to consolidate and strengthen public services, including health services. It is also suggested that the pandemic has highlighted the need to strengthen our health system in order to provide an adequate response to new public health threats to Basque citizenship. Health is a fundamental right and therefore public management of the system must be strengthened. The recognition by the Basque Government of the shortcomings of the system that has revealed this pandemic is an important first step in putting forward, with realism and humility, the Basque Government's commitments to Basque citizenship in the field of public health. Thus, in order to ensure this public health, the strengthening of health through five commitments is proposed as the Government's axis of action. First, strengthen primary care by advancing care integration. Secondly, modernization and adaptation of health facilities and equipment. Thirdly, the development of a health research ecosystem and the development of the health-related business fabric. Fourth, to expand and renew and consolidate staffing, and to improve the training and recognition of health professionals. And fifthly, the commitment to a closer health and to the service of people. The amendment put forward by the Basque Nationalist and Socialist groups reflects the proposal by Euskal Herria Bildu, once again shows the will and commitment of the Basque Government to strengthen and adapt our health system to the current situation, and also to the future because there will be new needs, because they have already been demonstrated in this pandemic. The latest proposals of your original initiative, Mrs Ubera, are part of the commitments of one to four, which are raised in the government agreement, and therefore, given the assumption by us of the practically totality of the contents of your original initiative, we do not understand the new approach we took to make a compromise. Eight new proposals, which were the sum of some of his proposals and some of the other parliamentary groups. And I suppose – and I want to think – that it is an exercise of goodness for your fellow oppositioners, trying to stay well and that no one feels excluded with your initiative, but that it makes any agreement impossible because their proposals are based on data that are not contrasted, which at all coincide with those available to the health system itself. This is not going to be the only initiative that we will be discussing in this House on COVID-19 and on our health system, on what answers are the most appropriate to the situation in which we are, by then, I hope that the adviser and her department have been able to form their teams, map out the strategies, explain them to us at parliamentary level, in order to discuss them among all and seek among all the most suitable solutions for this circumstance that we are living and for the medium term that we are going to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u29	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning to all of you, and a special day, the new chief physician of health, his friend Gotzaone. Honestly, I wish you the best luck in this difficult challenge. And I want you to know that if you do, you know, but... you'll have help and protection from the whole of our team. As for the SARS-CoV-2 or COVID-19 Birus strategy, the Basque Country has brought us to this first meeting. And well, it may be said that this legislation is sufficient to begin with this subject. So we're talking about the measurements that our life has turned upside down and the virus which has entirely changed the world. But we shall not start from scratch; In our country, the first cases of this virus have already taken place, and it has been a long time since its opposition strategy started. We've already learned a lot of things, done a lot of things, and it's happened. We've got a lot of people left on the way, people who have killed this COVID, and we remember them today. We've all learned a lot about the virus, and we've learned before him what we're going to do and what we don't have to do. We're learning to live with virus, adapting ourselves to this new reality. And, well, while September from March, it may be said that we've lived a time, and now, in September, we've all gone back to our jobs, to our schools, and when we've come back to school, we've begun to face another time, to bring us new challenges, and that we'll have to get used to it all, don't we? And it's not going to be easy because we have the virus here and it'll continue to condition our daily condition. From the beginning of the pandémé, M. M.M. had to reorganize our health systems in order to give attention to the consequences of the coronavour. We found ourselves in the presence of an unknown disease, very contagious; no one knew how to deal with medicine; we have no vaccinations, we have no proper medicine against it. He's an extraordinary case: This virus leads him to death from the asympmatics to the serious cases. and to this end it was absolutely necessary that a reorganization should be given them all the answers necessary for each, right? But the system has exposed its strength to all these months, Mrs. Ubera, and the ship of the Osar is neither sunk nor destroyed nor our health system. Since the first cases of COVID were detected there in February, the Basque Government has had to reorganize our health system to meet the health needs resulting from the pandemic, as in all systems in the world, has it not? We can say, and thank you, that our health system, built among all of us during these years, has shown enough strength to cope with this new situation. Baina egia da, sistak sontasuna erakutsi badu ere, aldi berean pandemia honek agerian utzi digula gehiago indartu behar dugula –eta hori beti esan dugu – herritarek dituzten beharrei eta, henera, aurrez aurrez aurregun eta izan ditzakegun osasun-mehatxu aurre egitek. We therefore have a clear need to strengthen our health system in order to respond adequately to the new public health threats that are looming over all of us and this is also reflected in the government agreement signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. I would mention three duties to prevent virus. First, to remind and enforce the measures necessary for prevention. As many cases as possible. And to give attention to those who are sick. In your initiative, as before, you needed information. Madame Corcuer explained our correction here very well, and I won't repeat it, will I? But I think the Department of Health has supplied information from the first day and with all its transparency. Mrs. Corcuera has mentioned several reports, and I will not repeat them. They're public. And, besides, that's what keeps this routine when we give information to it. Besides, we have all been able to appreciate the size, anxiety, and, at certain moments, the improvement of what has been given us every day. There has been an ability to identify focuss, and it has been given direct information to the people who might be involved in these focusings, to go to those calls for baptizing, making PCRs, because they should be cut off by sharing them, right? And we ask the Medical Department to continue this way every day. And besides this epidemic report, he could do other reports in order to complete information and respond to the current situation. In that sense, I mean clearly, and I really want to thank you, I'm telling you, that the chimpanzee you've offered in other places is not like that, and I think there's even a compliment to you. It's the citizen's power. So did he. Because the prevention is essential, and that's where we all have a lot to say. And besides, it has been repeated that in conjunction with the townships, because the institutions nearest to the people in the Medical Department are the Innardian institutions, to the people of Ammon, to give them information, let us always know what measures we ought to follow, what manner of habits we must follow, how little degree of infection we may be able to follow. And that's also in our corrections. But unfortunately, even if we follow the prevention, it's not enough and there's the infection because it's a virus, which, unfortunately, is quickly and easily contagious. And then, to the infected and to the surrounding region, to all the contacts, it is also necessary that we should follow them. And that's why, too, we're asking our review teams that collect the PCR samples, the browsers, the same health report, to fit them to the needs of the moment. Monitoring of infected people is essential because, although prevention is important, unfortunately, we cannot avoid all contagions. Therefore, once they have occurred, monitoring of infected people and their closest contacts is essential to cut off the transmission of the virus. And it is essential, for that, to have sufficient human and material means. Undoubtedly, the execution of PCRs, the work of the trackers to locate all contacts, isolation... But it is also important at this point, and without wanting to hold citizens responsible, which is, it seems, what we are also thinking, as we are putting as the sole responsibility of citizens to deal with this virus. That is not true, but I believe that at this point we all know that all of us have something to do to avoid becoming infected or to avoid contagion or to avoid transmission. And if we are made PCRs or if we are called to make a PCR because we have been close contact with someone who has given positive, we must come. And if we are told that then we have to do a quarantine and we have to be isolated, we have to comply, because if not, the protocols, of course, without the collaboration of all, will not be worth much. And he also makes a request to improve the state of public health services. I said, we have a strong system, and it has been able to respond to a solid system, but it's a better one too. Keeping ahead of the planet's stabilizing? Yeah, and we got it in our rectification. And it's a first class attention force, too. And this commitment has also been granted to the government agreement. In the four years of commitments in the history of the government, it's predictable that we create 4,000 squares. You got the other leg, too. There is no doubt that for the adequate response to the pandemic, the integration of public health devices also into health care services is necessary. And to give priority to primary care also, both with the expansion of the staff, of optional staff and of nursing, and also de-bureaucratizing the work of this staff and, well, also diversifying the profiles of the people who have to be in that primary care. And the introduction of new technologies for the detection and monitoring of cases of COVID-19, also the opening of new primary care centres or the reform of those who need it. And everything is already as a commitment contained in that government agreement, and they will materialize in the coming months and years. Our team will defend the corrections proposed to the Socialist team. That's what we're going to vote for. It's true that you sent us a half-way proposal, but following what Mrs. Corcuer says, I think you introduced as original initiative and our corrections have no differences. I think we all share the goal, and it can't be different. We all want a strategy to face this COVID-19. And that our systems, health systems, even the ability to answer, I think it is the end and will of all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u30	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u31	Yeah, right now. We share the main moons, and I think we'll have time to discuss the details throughout the whole legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Teams that haven't run any corrections. Myst. Mrs. Martinez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u33	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. This pandemic is unravelling some strengths and many weaknesses. The more the population has been required, the more efficiently the population has responded. Professional groups, such as health workers, firefighters, police, army, transporters, supermarket staff, have demonstrated a professionalism beyond doubt, and solidarity among people, of course, has been exemplary. On the contrary, however, we find a political class incapable of facing a difficult challenge, more concerned with its armchairs than with the problems of the street, putting on the table issues such as the call for elections or labour reform, when the debate really was the state of alarm, and it had to be, fundamentally, a health debate. We have seen the circumstances go beyond the central government. We also now see how these circumstances also go beyond the Basque Government. That is, neither self-criticism nor collaboration with those who do know how to act in this situation. A lot of ego, a lot of personal interest, and very little commitment to the citizenry, to the entrepreneurs, to the workers, to the self-employed. Above all, this pandemic has certified the failure of the current autonomous model: 17 health protocols, absolute disconnection between territories, despite the fact that people move from one to another with assiduousness and normality. It is normal to see a person who lives in Vitoria and goes to work in Miranda de Ebro or lives in Logroño and works in Bilbao. So VOX will support any initiative aimed at restoring to the central government some competencies – the health care – that should be of the central government. We need a common script, a national approach to a problem that is of all Spaniards, the commitment that health in each province is of the same quality as the best of all. On the other hand, very well that information is provided daily – although it could be a little easier to digest – but also that campaigns are carried out so that citizens know how to handle this situation, especially how to interpret the messages that are always changing, when not contradictory: that if masks are yes, that is not, or maybe; gloves are not, but yes; we can stand in a bar, sitting not, on the street; five, six... That is to say, this is what confuses, this is what subtracts credibility from what the Government says. Come on, the best campaign you can do is clear up and avoid confusion. With regard to the commitment to stabilise staffing and strengthen primary care, I think it is only a toast to the sun, because, moreover, I believe that they are words without content and without concreteness. In fact, it is one of the first commitments that all health and health advisors request and say they will fulfill when they hold office. The real thing is that they fail, and always. And bad, too bad that your commitment is just to train trackers, when what we need are more, and there are many who are trained. In fact, it has offered us 2,000 military personnel, the central Government, to all the autonomous communities. None of them have arrived here. Also one question: what about the COVID radar? We've been told that the app
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u34	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u35	Mrs. Tejeria, I'd need 20 minutes to respond. Mrs. Zaleski, you've discussed 4,000 jobs for one moment. It's not because EH Collect says so. He read the contract of government, and it is obvious that these jobs are not new, but that they will go out to OPE, and that they are already part of the structure of the planet. On the other hand, the government-you lie even in that respect: These measures of modern OPE, which were voted here, approved in the parliament, were not voted on the legislature, were not accepted. Introduce governments, but vote and don't accept. So beware of the measures you receive in the history of the Government. If we share our goals, I don't understand how difficult it is to get to the agreements, because that's the end of it and the agreements. And that's finally the return of that will and return to the numbers. We probably don't agree with the numbers, but maybe we can agree on some numbers. But the point is, you read your correction, you can see that we weren't saying the same thing. You'll excuse me, but we weren't going to say the same thing, because it's not enough to say that "para seguir avanzando..." For how many years have we been saying the first thing you've said in your corrections"que se avance en la statebilizion de..." How old? Let's find out what that is, and agree to it. For example, trackers don't even say "go ahead." In information, we could go on for a long time, because we have to keep track of the information. Every week we had meetings, and even in those weekly meetings you didn't even give information, always following and pressing them. I also remember April 6, May 14 and July, when the information disappeared and the press and the pressure of the opposition teams made to retrieve information. So we could talk long and wide of transparency. What else? The best thing we could do is to put the resources of health professionals on the patients of COVID. They ask for [it,] They ask for [it,] Neither we nor we do. And that's the best homage. Let's take care of this. If there is will, let us take measures and agree, and consume responsibilities, for even today, Mrs. And here... Because from the beginning... And, you see, there's one thing I have to admit to the Socialist Party, where the Spanish Government was at first capable of taking bold decisions when there was no other option. "And you hid yourselves behind you, hid behind you, and did not dare to decide. Only when they were better choices or populists, you'd get your throat pulled. Then what's happened is Madrid's government hasn't moved those parameters and steps in the first wave, hasn't learned and didn't fit them. But you're still the same after the Madrid Government, delegating your responsibilities. And your responsibilities are taking care of the workers, but the workers are no longer allowed, because now they're giving way to the Urgent of Osa industries. No capacity for more information, no capacity for more. And that's why Osar is sinking. So far they've taken the backpack, but they can't take it anymore. They can't take any more, and that's why the means are needed, and the measures are needed. And the government has to take their responsibility. Let's hope from now on we'll have a chance to talk about the precise measures, because if the will is willing, the measures are taken. And the will to make and carry on, actions, words, and not engagements only. We need specific things, we need resources. Madame Corcuera, thank goodness that protocols and regulations are public! If they weren't public, what would that be? Look, since 2009, the agreement is not renewed. In the first few years before the pandemy, there was no agreement. In the Pandema, the government put an e-mail and a telephone and put them in touch with the unions, and no one was found behind that phone. So with actions. Show actions with text and dimensions rather than paper. Because everything that's been in the Medical Department hasn't been done yet. They haven't done it. So we've had a chance to talk about concrete things, and we should talk. And not in generality and abstraction...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u36	Go to the end of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u37	...down. In conclusion, I'd like to say to Mrs. Corcuera that we've had a chance of sharing a lot of things along the pandema with other groups. I know what you proposed, and I know what your attitude was; I know your chief physician in the pandema....
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u38	Amaitu, Ubera andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u39	... and I understand now that you must play here another role, but I only propose to ask you to do what you said at that time, because of the things your former chief physician said, to act, and to make it real, and to lead it to the practice of this government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. I'd like to remind you that each team has your time, and I'd be grateful if you'd stick to that time because each of you gets more and more time. So I wouldn't want to break the word. You get it, right? So, please limit to time. And if we start from the beginning, it's much better for all of us. Together the representative of Podemus Damareerda Unida. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u41	I am going to stick to the five minutes because, in fact, I do not want to add too many things, but I am a little surprised by the speeches by Mrs Berasaluze and Mrs Corcuera, by some of the things they have said. Because they say that the proposal that you have tabled, your amendment, contains everything that the original initiative of the proposing group brings. First of all, I do not understand that an amendment is tabled to the whole of it, which reflects everything that is taken up by the initiative of a proposing group, but well... And then, I don't understand that you didn't come to an agreement. Mrs. Corcuera says that the transaction to which we have arrived EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unitida is a sort of "goodism". I do not know, there has been no reference to some of the things that we have introduced, I suppose they are the ones that bother them, which have to do, I think, with some figures and some approaches that we have advocated in the previous parliamentary term. Because I have spoken in my speech that these are issues that Osakidetza needs, that come from old age, but that are necessary if we want to deal effectively with the pandemic, which is the initiative or the title of the initiative that was being brought in, but, although we have defended them, they are not ours, it is those who have been posing for a long time who are working in our public health system. Because collecting generalities is very simple. And we, and I also believe that we have also demonstrated this on more than one occasion, are sometimes willing to sign generalities, but we are not willing to sign generalities when there is a history, on a specific subject, full of generalities that are not then fulfilled. I therefore believe that at the moment, if the government or department's objective is real, to negotiate with our public health professionals and to make progress in structural staffing, in sufficient staffing, to put an end to the excessive outsourcing of services, with giving proper primary care as they are requiring, if that is real, we must start putting numbers and making commitments. They're not worth generality. And I can understand that the opposition in Parliament do not give us any water and do not reach an agreement in terms, but we will see it at the negotiating tables with the trade unions. Yesterday they said the counselor had not answered them yet, despite the good words after the last mobilization. Tomorrow I think they have another mobilization. Let's go check it out. We, of course, from our political position, will also be pushing forward in this Parliament so that in these matters there will start to be specific numbers and genuine respect for what the public health professionals are asking for.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u42	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans is the representative of the group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u43	I have already mentioned that in the end we shall give satisfaction to this half-way proposal, which we have agreed upon, because we think that some of the important things we propose are not, in the end, received in this text. And, on the other hand, I think that even when they give precise percentages or figures, there's a danger, and, well, I think that's where we're supposed to be involved, Ms. Ubera and Mr Martín. We believe that in order to make progress and, above all, in the shortcomings or deficits that have been detected in the management of this crisis by the department, it was essential to make an express mention of the role of the Advisory Council on Infectious Diseases. It must be said clearly that this body has been completely dispensed with without justification. Moreover, it has not been understood by the general public as a whole. A body made up of professionals specialized in dealing with these kinds of issues, which, in addition, was created specifically in 2016 for this purpose. Let us hope, Madam Counsellor, that you will rectify this issue, because we believe that it was a mistake, an important mistake, and that, without a doubt, having counted on this Advisory Council on Infectious Diseases, I believe that it would have been valuable and would have helped to make decisions, perhaps, more effective, and that there would not have been too much confusion on the part of the department in the messages that were being sent to all Basque citizens. On the other hand, I have to say to Mrs Corcuera and Mrs Berasaluze that in her speeches I do not see self-criticism; I even see too much complacency. Lack of concreteness, too, and lack of commitment. And I believe that, at a time like this, it is also necessary to make more concrete proposals and to provide, above all, certainties in a context of uncertainty, in which too much confusion has been generated, as I said, in many of the actions that have been launched. Apart from the Infectious Diseases Advisory Council, we do believe that greater emphasis should be placed on everything that the tracking team has to be. We think we need to improve it and, obviously, I already understood – well, I didn't understand, I already assumed that..., I don't understand it, but..., I suppose I understood, I say, from the partisan approach of the nationalist groups – that it was not collected by EH Bildu and We can make an express reference to the service that the Army has offered in this particular issue, right? I think that there all the help that can be received cannot be denied, as I said, as happened with the Military Emergency Unit. As I was saying, this team, no doubt, must be increased, the tracking program must be improved. This is essential to identify the entire chain of contagion, to identify all the people who have been able to be infected, to detect the specific focus and, above all, to detect, at a critical time as we are now, also the asymptomatic people. We will therefore defend our concrete proposal. We believe that it is the one that is based on reality and that responds to the most sensitive aspects and the aspects that need to be addressed specifically at this time. And, for the reasons mentioned, we will abstain in the compromise amendment by the EH Bildu and Podemos groups. Obviously, we believe that, in addition to being consistent with the constructive criticism that this group has made over the course of all these months, we have no choice but to see a change of attitude and a change of position in the future, than to vote against the initial proposal of the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. We will have an opportunity, Madam Counsellor, to discuss these issues. Announcement that we will request the attendance of the Advisory Council on Infectious Diseases. We believe that the voice you have not had throughout all these months is appropriate to hear in this Parliament; apart from the fact that we will be very eager to attend your first appearance, and let us hope – because we hope that this will be the case, and it must also be the case – that you will have your team appointed by then and that you have already presented it to the public before that date. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u44	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u45	Yes, thank you, President. I repeat, Mrs Ubera: the Basque Socialists agree with many of the reflections raised by their original initiative and also in their motion for a resolution, and that is why we have written and adapted it in our amendment to accompany them, to accompany those proposals to the commitments of the government agreement that we have signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra. With its compromise amendment, however, it has sought to go much further. In view of our amendment, the amendment that we have tabled together has come to the conclusion that your initiative has been short-lived, because we accepted it practically in its entirety – "practically in its entirety", Mr Hernández – and, in a sort of trap, it is now a compromise that does not seek a possibility of broad agreement, but rather highlights the groups that support the Government and the Government itself in the face of the entire opposition. And in order to try to reach agreement on the measures to combat COVID-19, for that rigorous, viable agreement, and to make it possible in today's circumstances, you cannot claim, Mrs Ubera, acts of faith based on data that have not been contrasted, as you have intended to do today. I reiterate the commitment of the Basque Socialists to strengthening public health, starting with strengthening primary care. That is a concrete commitment that lies in the government agreement, with its full development. It is also intended in this government agreement to move forward in care integration, giving priority to primary care, expanding the number of optional staff and residential internal nursing positions, and debureaucratizing the work of medical and nursing staff. I'm not making it up, it's not my speech; it's in the government agreement. I also reiterate our commitment and that of the Basque Government to expand, renew and consolidate the workforce, improving the training and recognition of health professionals – it is also in the government agreement. To this end, 4,000 positions in public job offers will be convened during this legislature – it is in the government agreement –; the current employment relationship will be reviewed to incorporate new professional categories and increase the endowments of those that are under-funded – it is in the government agreement; specific training programmes will be promoted between the optional and nursing staff, especially the detection, monitoring and treatment of infectious diseases, creating a standing committee for epidemiological matters, coordinated with the Government of Spain and the coordinating body of the European Union, working, in addition, for the greater integration and coordination of public health devices in all primary care services – it is in the government agreement. The Government's five programmatic commitments to strengthen public health, with the aim of ensuring health, involve in its development a huge number of actions, programmes and plans in which we hope to have your reflections, the reflections of all of you, your contributions, as well as those of the agents of the Basque health system, and which allow us not only to fight and win the fight against COVID-19 and to overcome this health crisis, but also to make our health system ready for any new paradigm. Well, we are committed to this by the Socialists and the Basque Government. Also to promote the measures that the Ministry of Health agrees with Euskadi, such as the declaration of coordinated actions of 9 September last, which is a new package of measures agreed between all administrations to deal with the pandemic caused by COVID-19. I hope that in the near future we will be able to reach agreements that are broader than what we have achieved today, but the will was clear on the part of the Basque Socialists with the amendment that we tabled, which was to take up the proposal, much of the proposal, by Euskal Herria Bildu, matifying it with what is being done against COVID and accompanying it to the commitments of the government agreement. When you have seen that the agreement was possible, you have done it again: you have fled, you have given the doorway, you have left with another opposition group. I do not know whether Bildu's strategy from now on or simply is a point of order on this issue. You said, "They brought paper." No, no, You brought paper, Mrs. Ubera, you brought paper. We have brought an amendment-paper based on a government agreement. I hope that, truly, the agreement will be possible in the future because in this it goes to us all a lot, because it can go to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u47	Mrs. Ubera, what's the matter with us not to make a deal? You asked. I think you should ask yourself that question. And I agree with what Mrs. Corcuer said. Our corrections, not as a whole, with mackish... You seem to be able to fix everything by making more of the templates. No. Even the resources we have to manage must be handled. But you're always more, more and more. And besides, some need, at least in the numeric numbers, which had not been hired at least at all. And you still ask me what happens so I don't get to deal with it. Even if I made a present of the preceding law, in the initiative you bring them to this Chamber, how many times you've made an arrangement, I really don't think, how many fingers I should need, but I wouldn't need to see where you've made the agreement. So maybe you should ask yourself that question. And then again that it's "toss down co-operation," that it's "resolved first attention," it's not true, and you know it's not true. It's as if, when we're all here in front of a situation like this, it's like we're all gonna have to work together... You seem to enjoy it. I mean it. El cuanto peor, mejor, ya esta como muy mando, pero es verbad. Every time you get out of this tribe, if you've seen anything wrong, if you've seen any protests... That's the way you're always able to complete your argument. And then I tell you again, why this agreement is not possible, it's really hard for you because you don't want a deal. And your half-way proposal has been very clear to indicate that. Instead of looking for an agreement, you wanted us to stay away. It may be because you've chosen that dynamic in this legislation, and then you'll start with the rhodillo. And you said, "actions and words, that's the difference." You stop in words, and we and the government do actions, because that's what they care about, and we're going to get rid of this town with COVID-19 and then. And, chief physician, I've already told you, you have a great challenge. Fortunately, we seem to be talking about this second wave, too. But the first time you said "prudence," I think that's the word. We can't say we're over it, because tomorrow we don't know what we're going to find out. And, Mrs. Ubera, you've told me that we're putting the people back on our way to get them out of this situation as their boss. I didn't say that, and I also told you that's what we're accused of, but that's not true. But it's true, and we all know that, and everybody says there's a lot in our hands. And we must take care of it, and look after our neighbours; and we must follow the measures of prevention. And yet one day you get a PCR and they tell you that you're sick. And that's what happened to me. I think that even if we followed all the recommendations of my family, we were infected. And we've passed through illness with ionjitters, not anxious, and, well, I'm here on that side, and I'm fine. But it could happen to anyone. And it's not about the citizens, but we're in charge of the people. The organizations do, but this is a challenge for everyone, and we have to do it among all. And so do you. Seriously, if you want to go out for this town, you can't come out here to tell me that Osacomb is a ship sinking, because it's not true. And we've all got a member of the Osace, and his strength is uncovered. But, even so, we've confessed that he has to force more. And we've just said that the first thing we need to do is strengthen our attention. And many things. And all that is done, commitments. And it will be done. Now we're in a very special situation. Let us face what is before us. We'll have time, we'll have time. And if there's commitment, there's commitment. There is also a desire to work. And let's hope, on your side, that this commitment is really there. And, well, I also want to make use of this opportunity to thank Osacency for my gratitude, this is a personal affair in my name. At least for my personal friend and my family, who have been giving us a lot of attention for the work they've done these days. And, really, every professional member of the Osaparte, but also every member of the Osage manager, when things are right here, because it's not just some people's work. And there is, thanks to their good work, but also to that group of managers within.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Myst. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours. He mustn't speak. [[Pause]] The discussion is over. We're going to vote for EH Collect and together for the middle-direction signed by the Podemos-Ituerda Uneds. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 26; contrary, 41; Abstations, 7.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u49	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the entire USPAL Group-Ciudadans correction. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 6; the contrary, 67; Abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u50	So it's not accepted. And in the end, Eucabertists and Basque Socialists will vote for a full-signed correction. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 32; the abstainments, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u51	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "In the same way as the parliamentary Podemos-IU teams, about the mass of Eucharistic industrial companies. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, the representative of the People of Uida Podemos-Tareuerda has the word to present and defend itself. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u52	Good morning, everybody. We are presenting for Parliament's consideration an initiative to commit ourselves to maintaining employment and also to respecting the working conditions in our country's industry in view of the intention expressed in recent months to destroy jobs by some major companies in the Basque Country. Data on the impact of the pandemic on the labour market show us the severe effects and serious consequences that the pandemic is having on the working class, even with the measures that have involved a containment dam promoted by the Ministry of Labour. However, many of the companies that announce traumatic measures for workers are far from critical situations and are seeking, in our opinion, only to save labour costs to maintain benefits. Despite the constant decline, abandonment and weight loss of the Basque industry over the last decades, Euskadi maintains a differentiated productive structure from other territories more punished and more dependent on sectors such as tourism, even counting our community with a certain weight of industrial sector. For that reason, the announcements of hundreds of redundancies in industrial companies that have been known this past summer must worry us and occupy us. Of course, we are concerned and concerned about Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, and we want this Parliament to be able to support the workers in a struggle that they are going to have to give and that they are already giving in to their class unions. There are already a few industrial companies that have announced traumatic decisions based on large redundancies. Some of them, companies that are tractors in their respective environments and that could also be considered strategic. Companies like Tubacex, like ITP, like Aernnova and others. Companies, moreover, many of them, created in the Basque Country, although today they are capitalist multinationals and their property, in our opinion, has nothing to do with the country or with any commitment to it. But, above all, these are companies that have had huge profits in recent years. According to trade union sources, since 2009 Tubacex, ITP and Aernnova have earned more than €1 billion. They are, therefore, companies that were in a good situation before the crisis broke out by the coronavirus, obtaining significant profits and dividend sharing. We therefore believe that it is unacceptable that, after obtaining so many benefits, these companies want hundreds of workers to lose their jobs and, therefore, their only economic resources or to see their working conditions worsened as part of the blackmail they are being blackmailed. This also means a new blow to the Basque industry, which is increasingly being played out in spite of electoral promises. In the recent elections, all political parties – I believe all of us – affirm the importance of empowering and recovering industry as an engine of the Basque economy and also as a tool for generating quality jobs. However, after the election, we find that in the face of the announcements of large industrial enterprises in which major redundancies and cuts in working conditions were advanced, the Basque Government reacted with understanding to these approaches, when not justifying them, especially in the voice of the economic development adviser, that we think it has a fixation with the reduction of wages to deal with anything: short-term problems, lower wages to avoid redundancies; structural problems, wages can be lowered to avoid redundancies; the competitiveness of companies can be improved by lowering wages, and the last great idea of this government, to talk about lower wages to invest in training. It's true that then the Matiza councilwoman, "it doesn't have to be generalized, you have to see every company and so on." Well, today, in the initiative that we bring and in the transaction that we have reached with the EH Bildu group – I thank Mr Casanova for his willingness to negotiate – we are not talking about small family businesses or businesses drowned by previous economic situations that are caught up in the disaster in the face of the problems caused by the pandemic; we are talking about important corporations that have had huge profits for years, that have had public aid in different formats and that have granted significant economic amounts to owners and shareholders. We believe that it is entirely unacceptable, even immoral, I would say, that those who have obtained significant economic benefits from the company's activity and, therefore, from the work of the workers now raise, as a first step in the face of economic problems, the dismissal of those same workers who have made it possible to obtain benefits with the sweat of their forehead or who propose cuts in their wages and working conditions. The use of the situation and the complex context that emerged as a result of the pandemic as a justification for firing, lowering wages or worsening working conditions does not really have anything new, only the pandemic is used on this occasion as an excuse, as an argument to do the usual, which is also raised on other occasions. The aim is to transfer the cost to those who get the least out of the business, to those who contribute the most to it, to those who are essential and, at the same time, the most vulnerable part of it: to the workers. Some of the examples we have encountered lately are, in our opinion, quite bloody. ITP proposes to fire about 200 workers in Bizkaia. ITP is a company that has obtained more than 260 million euros in profits over the past four years; a company that belongs to a multinational group that obtains multi-million dollars profits; a company that, despite these results, proposes, as a solution to the situation generated by COVID, layoffs and cuts to workers. No, we don't think this is acceptable. The same is true of Tubacex, one of the world's leading manufacturers of industrial steels. A company that maintains a solid financial position and whose CEO not only says so, but explained a few weeks ago that the group is growing stronger and that the company has experienced a significant improvement in market positioning. He said: "Selling more and more to end customers and premium products with added value, and launching new materials and projects." According to this CEO, the company has a good permanent liquidity and a cashier over EUR 150 million. However, in spite of these statements or, rather, in line with them, he suggests that what they call "staff adjustments" should be done. I mean, layoffs. Thus, the company has proposed to fire at least 150 workers. No, we don't think this is acceptable. Aernnova, another important company that proposes what the employer calls "adjustments". Yesterday I had a certain grace, although it is not new, to listen in this case to the employer's spokesman here in Euskadi talking about the need to adjust wages to the new situation. Terms are always used to try to make it clear when they are posing wage cuts. "Adequate wages to the situation" for Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita could be "increase wages" because, in general, they are low for the cost of living. Of course, in Euskadi they are low to meet needs such as housing. But obviously, when the employer talks about "adequate wages to the situation" it only refers to "lowering them" and, above all, it always refers to "lowering them". Aernnova has distributed important dividends among its shareholders. Aernnova is involved in a EUR 400 million loan, of which a quarter is intended to pay dividends. Now he raises cuts and layoffs. We do not understand it, we think that such approaches in such companies are not acceptable. And this Parliament, we think, should say that it is not acceptable. That is what we are proposing to this Parliament today. Also the Basque Government, which has direct responsibility on the long downhill to which our industry has become, should say that it is not acceptable to start changing not only its industrial policy, with which 25,000 jobs have been lost in the last three years – 69,000 industrial jobs less since 2008 – but also its attitude and position towards these practices where the interests of capital pass as real rollers over the rights and working and living conditions of the working class of our country. However, in our view, we have a Government that is extremely understanding of redundancy announcements, wage or working conditions announcements and is exquisitely complicit with the business strategies that, in the end, involve precariousness or job losses with the sole objective of maintaining the results accounts, the rates of profit of owners, shareholders or large business groups. The workers of our industry, in general, and of these companies which I have mentioned, in particular, need the support of Parliament and also of the Basque Government, a support which, in our view, is clear from their absence. We believe that the best way for this Parliament to show its solidarity with the workers on whom it currently stalks the threat of dismissal or the deterioration of their working conditions is to be forceful and clear to the intentions of some companies to use the pandemic to improve their situation at the cost of worsening the situation of the workers, the workers who have given life to those companies and who keep them alive. We believe that the best way to tackle the weight loss problems of the industrial sectors in our country is also to use public intervention capacity in decision-making and to ensure the participation of workers in decision-making. We believe that the Basque Government, instead of leading the opposition to the formula of redundancies and cuts in labour rights, is participating in the blackmail that is done to workers when they are told that they either accept cuts or will be responsible for redundancies or corporate closures. It is an old formula that some companies have to act on, so we think that the workers must find strong support in this Parliament. That is why we are bringing this initiative, which has these two objectives. On the one hand, to obtain strong support from this House for the workers in the face of the approaches of some companies, which we find unacceptable. It will not happen because there is no majority agreement in the House, and we regret it, we see that the majority will support the position and attitude of the Government on this issue. And we also want this Parliament to urge the Basque Government to have a more determined industrial policy, where the public played an important role, where the public played an important role in the orientation and participation in industry and in the direction of industry. It's not gonna be either. We understand that the majorities that have formed the new Government will preserve that orientation of the new Government, which is the same orientation of the previous Government. We are before the same government. We, in any case, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, will continue to bring in initiatives, which we understand are positive and which are of support to the workers, because it seems to us that it is not enough to maintain ambiguous positions in a conflict where there is one part more vulnerable than the other, where there is no equal correlation of forces. We think that doing so is, in a way, supporting the strong part of that conflict, which is the employers and, in this particular case of this particular initiative, some companies that are exercising bad practices. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u53	Quiet, please. Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u54	Hello, good afternoon. We'll talk about the industrial companies that are at the crisis, and our first thought is, of course, our first words are for the workers of these companies, because it's not easy to be in their situation, because it's not easy, in the social context we now live in, to be on the top of the head of Damme and there waiting for an ERITE, ERPENDICE, ERICE, and a pay party. For them our word, our reflection, our solidarity, and even our commitment to be with them in all the battles that will be articulated. We'll be on the first line of job, job quality, salary, and compression support. It's not a good economic situation, and it's normal to have multiple companies at a crisis. If we review the macronomic data, we'll see that COVID created a bad situation in all the economy in the world. In our work, by describing the situation in the four cells, we can say that the downfall of the raw internal product will be around 20%; exports within nearly 20% of that rate, back to 20% of that rate, are also reduced to subsidies, including collecting of money, 20% again, and increasing as far as unemployment rate is concerned, 26% of the past few years. This is a situation that we're going to fall into. It's not just and it's a whole lot of fun for you. It's not like that, it's not like it's the world's worshipper. This is the situation we have, and we know that at the last moment, or at the last moment, this social crisis has also caused an economic crisis. We may say that the state of our hundred producers has a direct relation with the most beautiful developments of the past few years, which also affects the effect of the situation produced by the COVID. But there is a right responsibilities about what kind of politics it will activate in this negative context. Cards have been divided, and macronomics cards are bad, as I said, but we have to play the game now, and this game can be faced in different ways. I'll give you an example. In France, President Macron has presented an integral plan to reorganize and promote the author's self-service. The economic dotation of this plan is $8,000 million, that is, a potential one. What did you do here in front of the self-centered self-control sector? Well, he put five million euros into Renove's plan. And it's not that the raw internal prostate in France is a lot bigger than hugusta and the French budget is a lot bigger than hubathagar, the deportation is a lot bigger because there's a disproportion in position and appetite. And I am willing to mention that Macron, because he is the symbol of the Liberals of Europe, is the symbol of public policies, leaders, directors in the design of new industrial policies, and that they are not delusions, they are not revolutionary things; and I mentioned the right hand in serious countries, the right hand, and Macron; But here, five million more in Renove Plans, who might be worth a car to buy a diesel, for example, made in Turkey. An example, but the reality, which is very profound, is concealed behind this example, and it is that this government generally rejects its responsibility in this case and in other cases. There are two possibilities of facing this crisis from a government point of view: Or take the leadership or play the ostrich. And for the time being, and sadly, it's decided to play fun. And, unfortunately, that's not new. It can't be said, when the big companies are being fired, "Go get used to getting used to it, que vendán más." As the chief physician said: "Habá más malas noticias." As in movies, we'll ask the chief physician: "Dime algo que no seca. "Dame algo que no seca." For we know there will be bad news in this context, but what we want to know is, in front of these bad news, what the Government will do except to ask to be lowered by wages. We are talking about a handful of companies in crisis that are the advance of a situation that will have more consequences. In that I agree with the adviser because she is clear and, in fact, we already know in private that other companies, and I suppose the Government will have even more detail, that other companies too, in an imminent way, are going to get into such a situation. At first, I would like to place two typologies around these large companies. On the one hand, those belonging to the aeronautical sector and, on the other hand, the rest. Those in the aeronautical sector, of course, suffer, in addition to this overall unfavourable economic context, from the added difficulties associated with the specific crisis affecting the aeronautical sector, which has seen its portfolio of orders collapse. It is clear that the Basque aeronautics sector, which unlike elsewhere, such as in Andalusia, where a strategic bet was made, has been growing more or less in its own way, without governments having made a bet decided by it, and this aeronautics sector needs support in order to travel through a genuine desert crossing, in which it is expected that at some point there will be a recovery of the market. Then there will be issues such as the very transition you have to make to align with the ecological transition and so on, but right now we have to accompany the companies of the aeronautical world in order to make that journey, we have to provide them with flexibility in the return of credits or in the access to new credits, and we have to enable also public funds if they have to be given rescue, fusion, capital expansion operations, to be able to be in them also with public money. And, of course, we also have to demand social responsibility from these companies, because we are tired of hearing messages from "the trainer", from "the same boat", from "the new business culture" and then seeing how, at the first change, companies use the workers, at their staff, as a fuse that, in the face of the first overheating, at the first rise of tension, is melted and thrown into the trash. Well, no. No, no, As Mr Jon Hernández, companies such as ITP, said earlier, which have won €400 million in recent years, €95 million in the past year alone, cannot put forward from good to good that the only solution is to drastically and brutally reduce the workforce. I cannot extend for lack of time, but neither in Sidenor nor in Tubacex are the objective conditions given to face the processes that are putting on the table. Sidenor calls for an ERTE that is white card for 15 months for absolute and total flexibility in relation to staffing management, when 70 % of its production is destined for the automotive market, which, at least in the short term, seems to show symptoms of being bouncing and is therefore an unjustified ERTE. And in the case of Tubacex, when we see how he addresses the shareholder and how he addresses the worker, we see a new case of Doctor Jekyll Mister Hyde. We can't accept that, we can't accept it. In every company, there's a case in every corporation in the crisis, a special typeology. There may be common elements, because there is a general crisis or there may be a crisis in the sector, but each company has its terms and they must be examined. It's unacceptable to plan it as a general formula downhill. My colleague Otero is not here, who has popularized in this House the phrase that he imported from Mexico, that of "If it goes well, mezcal, and if it goes badly, mezcal". I looked at it on Google and, in addition, it has a continuation: "And if there is no remedy, liter and a half." Well, well, it seems to be the employer's formula: lowering taxes and lowering wages in any situation. That is, that is, when the time comes to receive a euro of those public taxes, in the form of aid, European projects or other subsidies, they are there at lightning speed. Yes, taxes also serve to help businesses in times of difficulty, and they also serve to help each other, and that is why we want a fair taxation that allows the government to have a financial muscle to support businesses. Unacceptable are those callings we have seen, that pay may be reduced in a general manner. We won't accept them. We also know that when there's a problem in all companies, the unions and the EH, we need to consider all the possibilities, and that in some companies it's a very hard situation and we have to take measures. But this is always the end of the trial, where no one wants to arrive; it is not the beginning. And it's not a coincidence. Synchronized Ofetivity or perhaps feminine thought And we're saying clearly that we've learned a good lesson in 2000.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u55	Go finish, Mr. Casanova. In 2008 the so-called "shock doctrine" was applied: with the excuse, with the panic generated by the collapse of the economy, measures of cuts in social rights were implemented in a general way and also in a multitude of companies, not only linked to the situation of the companies themselves, but taking advantage of the general situation to take the cuts beyond what is necessary.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u56	Go finish, Mr. Casanova.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u57	Ikasgaia ikasi dugu. We're not going to fall into the same mistake. From the very beginning, we will be faced with these measures which want to take advantage of the situation in order to establish reductions in staff and salary rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u58	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u59	Thank you very much, President. Today is the first ordinary plenary of this XII legislature. We started a new political course, very different from what we could imagine at the end of the previous legislature, because of the effects of the VOCID-19 pandemic that we have suffered during this time and that still continues among us. Today, citizens are suffering from the uncertainty of health, but also of their economic future and that of their families. That is why it is very important that we continue to focus and concentrate all our efforts on the important, defeating the pandemic and launching the economy. It's about protecting and moving forward. This pandemic and its consequences are the biggest challenge our democracy has faced in the past 40 years and will mark a before and after. We all play a lot: the health of our elders, of our families, of ourselves; the viability of thousands of businesses and the future of employment. And there are many open fronts. We aim to go out as a more strengthened country, where no one is left behind. The aim is to protect the most vulnerable and to continue to make progress. But we didn't start this legislature from scratch. The Socialist Group welcomes the measures taken to alleviate the effects on health and our economy from the beginning of the pandemic until now. The shock measures taken by the institutions have made it possible to respond to the immediate danger by deploying new resources to deal with the health crisis in order to mitigate the most pressing impacts on employment and business and to return to the path lost by the impact of the pandemic, recovering the growth path, and returning to an unemployment rate of less than 10 %. The Government of Spain has taken very important initiatives to save thousands of businesses and jobs, which have made it possible for millions of workers not to lose their jobs with the ERTE, for one million self-employed to receive an activity termination benefit and not to pay quotas and for the implementation of the largest line of guarantees and public funding in this country, the funds to the autonomous communities, as never before had been done. The economic and social measures adopted by the Government of Spain have made it possible to build a social shield to protect the Spanish and Spanish. And that is why we are highlighting some of these measures, such as the approval of ERTs; the extraordinary unemployment subsidies for temporary workers; the approval of minimum living income, as a new right to set up and consolidate the fourth pillar of the welfare state; moratoriums and rental mortgages; suspension of evictions; and the guarantee of supplies, among other measures. The Government of Spain has fought from the first day against the pandemic at three levels – health, economic and social – having defended social justice, equal opportunities, universal accessibility, ecology, digital transformation, social rights and feminism before, during and after the COVID-19. There had never been such a large deployment of economic and social measures as those adopted by the Government of Spain and, of course, without them the consequences of the economic crisis would have been much greater. Therefore, the priorities in this social reconstruction must focus on strengthening the public health system, protecting the most vulnerable in this crisis and reviving the economy, guaranteeing workers' rights and addressing sustainability. The Government of Spain has also done so with social dialogue as an axis on which to lay the foundations for the reconstruction of the future. And the Basque Socialists clearly have the need to continue to give impetus to this social dialogue in order to protect the productive fabric and economic activity and employment. The most representative business and trade union organizations in this country are teaching us a lesson, participating in this social dialogue with a constructive spirit and consensus. Also during this year in Euskadi we have worked at the Social Dialogue Bureau, with five working groups – gender equality, occupational health, employment, industry and vocational training – where urgent measures have also been taken, directly linked to the situation generated by the COVID-19 pandemic and the effects of the stoppage of productive activity and its relevant impact on employment and social cohesion. Within this employment working group, the agreement was reached to complete the public benefits of the persons included in the ERTE, on a contribution basis of less than EUR 20,000 per year. And we are going to continue working on this line in the Basque Government. Employment is once again a social, institutional and political priority, and this need has been reflected, within the government agreement between the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, in a clear way and which aims to develop a strategy that will bet on the recovery of employment, the improvement of the quality of employment and the economic revival to overcome the negative effects of COVID-19, and all this counting on social dialogue. Thus, Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia has stressed that the Department of Labour and Employment will be guided by three cross-cutting concepts throughout its work. First, dialogue on all things, with all social actors, institutions and with all parties; secondly, seeking innovation in the search for solutions to employment and strengthening social protection; and, lastly, equal opportunities for women and men and for young and older people will be a cross-cutting concept in the departmental policies of the Government. This is how the second step has been taken in both Spain and the Basque Country, a country project of digital transformation, the demographic challenge, the ecological transition, social justice, employment, science and support to strategic sectors. The initiative we are discussing today refers to mass redundancies in industrial enterprises in the Basque Country which could occur in the coming months, but which have not yet occurred, precisely because of the measures taken to prevent them and which will be maintained and extended as long as is deemed necessary. That is why the Minister of Labour, Yolanda Díaz, is agreeing, within the Bureau of Social Dialogue, to extend the extension of the ERTE and the increase in redundancies, which until the end of September had been maintained until 2021 to avoid these redundancies that could occur during this autumn. This is what has been called the "ban on dismissal" to protect workers from the circumstances of the state of alarm in their day decreed by the Government of Spain. This provision states that termination of employment contracts and dismissal for pandemic-related causes cannot be understood as justified. This will contain the possible layoffs of nearly 812,500 people currently in ERTE throughout Spain. The government cannot ban dismissals – that is contrary to the Constitution – but such redundancies can be increased, and that is what has been done with the measures taken. In the initiative presented to us by Elkarrekin Podemos, and in the compromise amendment that has come to an end between Podemos and the EH Bildu group, although we can share things because, of course, we too sympathize with the workers who may be affected by the redundancies in the coming months, and that we must try to ensure that the effects are as negative as possible as a result of COVID-19, but we must respect – we believe that we must respect – the autonomy of the parties when negotiating, and respect the representations of the companies and the workers in that negotiation, because the Basque Parliament cannot prevent such redundancies from taking place, it cannot force them not to take place, nor can it force the various measures that the parties concerned have put on the table in accordance with the current rules to be allowed to enter into these negotiations. Nor do we agree with what the EH Bildu Group has put forward, and which is reflected in the compromise amendment, because, although it does, of course, reflect that solidarity with workers, and so on and so on, the only measure that ultimately translates into the whole of its amendment is that the only solution to all the problems is that we have the Basque framework of labour relations, which is what has always been asking for all the issues, and it is the only solution that raises it. And that is why we are going to defend our amendment to the whole, the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, which bets, precisely, on this support for the workers, but also with respect to the rules of the game, the freedom of negotiation that the parties have and also betting on social dialogue...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u60	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u61	...as a solution.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u62	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u63	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, lords and ladies of the department, good morning. We would like to begin our intervention by representing our solidarity with all the workers who threaten fire or fire. The chief end of this legislature is to enable a strong economy, to establish a frame, but also to establish a more just one. To begin with, he said in Basque, we would like to show our solidarity with all the workers who feel the threat of unemployment on their shoulders. One of the objectives of this Parliament is to make a strong economy possible, but it must also be a just economy. The COVID has come to affect in a very abrupt and simultaneous way, practically, in all sectors, in all the Basque productive fabric, since the automotive, all that has to do with the machine-tool, the trade... With some exceptions, such as digital commerce or some food companies, everyone has suffered large losses in their balance sheet in recent months. And the worst symptom of a cold in the economy is always the layoffs, not only those that bring us to the debate at this fourth point today, but the 42,000 cuts in social security contributions that have taken place in Euskadi since the beginning of the crisis. Faced with this, the government's commitment is to return to an unemployment rate below 10%, which we had already reached at the stage prior to the arrival of COVID. And for this – it is important – the bet is to continue the transformation of the Basque company towards the new markets, which continue to generate added value – it is always value added, the generation of added value, which generates well-paid jobs and in good condition – and to maintain the social shield until we get out of this new crisis again. And the government – and we too – makes an explicit appeal to entrepreneurs to continue to invest, not to delay investment, so that recovery remains – be – vigorous, as expected by 21 and 22, and to use dismissal as a last resort. And this requires a condition to happen, which we often repeat, and it is the neighbourhood, which is the social problem, conversation, and agreement between workers and corporations. It is also evident among us, that there is a trust in this legislature, in order to avoid collective dismissations as much as possible. And for that, I needed the first flexity that I needed between the company and the workers. Check out the situation of the company, where we come from, where we're going, making a plan, and with that, which is the most important thing, if the company's failure closes, there's no work at all, no job to avoid collective dismission. As for the talk of the organizations and the joys, we'd say that we've settled the criteria in our town. They're not just Renove plans, Mr. Casanova, science, technology and innovation, for instance, that had a clear reflection at work. And the goal is to have euscal companies in the world ahead of us, competitive and refinerative, branches in the world, but the Zulus in town. It was also for this that the basis was to ensure the shooting of the swallows. Mr Casanova and Mr Hernández, you have been quite critical of the statements made by the Basque Government. What happens is that you confuse a little, because it gives the impression that the Government has made a general appeal to wage moderation, and that is not true. I have just explained what form, in our opinion, should be the form of dialogue in companies, analyzing what is the financial mattress that exists, what is the current situation and situation, and making medium-long-term planning. That is what is said by the Basque Government, and not a general call for wage moderation. This isn't going to compete only in wages. We know that well enough. But it's that, apart from speeches, what's needed is, well, an alternative. And during the COVID crisis, during the worst months of the confinement, we have seen, for our part, by EH Bildu, Mr Casanova, that two main measures have been proposed, which is to close the blind of all non-essential companies until we know when... I ask you a question: in this second wave do we continue to close them or keep them open, the non-essential ones? And the second is to delay the elections to sine die Then there is a debate that, for me, gives more of itself, which is the issue of collective redundancies in companies that have had benefits very recently. And there I do think the debate is very interesting. But, beyond the speeches, there is labour legislation, and I believe that all of us in this Parliament also have a presence in Congress, even some of you can carry bills. I'm going to read them, "The target dismissal for economic reasons." In one sentence it says: "There will be economic causes when a negative economic situation emerges from the company's results, in cases such as the existence of current or projected losses." "The plan." Here's the key. Don't you? At the time of approval an ERE is here. How we audit, how we certify those forecasts, how we quantify them. I think there may be a debate there, perhaps it will have to be, in part also, in other bodies that they have in the Congress of Deputies, which has the competence, but I do believe that there may be debate there. "Y, porúlimus, well no tanto en este debatae, pero en estos ultimus días de... You can imagine the picture of the rodillo, don't you? Just a little bit. And, well, I think there were things done in the legislation that went by. Even on board of Economic Development: The power on the left was elaborate, and it worked very well. Others are coming, too. And what we're trying to explain is that we've had and, even though arithmetic has changed, we're going to have the attitude we're going to get into agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u64	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Passing the teams that run any corrections, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u65	Good morning, again, everyone. We find it very difficult to understand the position of the Podemos Group in this case. My question is this: Have you ever worked in life? Have you contributed to Social Security? Have you worked for the private company or have you been autonomous to understand all this? The person who talks to you takes 30 years behind your back listed, I can assure you, and I have the experience of running a business with employees on my behalf, without any kind of subsidy and help. Believe me when I tell you that this is a very important issue for the population and, moreover, it is very hard for an entrepreneur who has to fire for just reasons. Mr Hernandez, do you offer a panorama for the future of our land? I certainly agree with you on one issue, on which very hard months will come. Too bad it's the only thing we share in your speech. We no longer share because you, as you often do, confuse your ideology with reality. You suffer from false conscience, and I will explain the reasons. From our point of view, there is no class struggle, as you put it. It is true that employers and workers sometimes have conflicting interests that result from conflicts that are the result of day-to-day working relationships. But one thing I can assure you, you both have to work for the company's livelihood, for the account it brings you. The model of class struggle that you present in this proposal seems to be the result of a quick reading of the Communist Party manifesto, but the times have changed a lot since 1848. It is obvious that the current context requires forceful action on the part of the public administration to safeguard jobs, but you are asking for an impossible, which is to shield workers' jobs at the expense of the company or, even worse, at the expense of the ill-gotten public accounts. This, for us, is a bit of populism. We think we have to go on a case-by-case basis and spin thinner when it comes to business and money. In any case, the inability of PNV and PSOE with respect to employment is also denunciated. They stretch ERTS untenably and, in the face of pressure from a sinking economy, they prefer to hide their heads and give false hopes to the Basques. The level of destruction of companies is alarming, and the debt also, but I repeat, what is most striking to us is that we have not seen a single cut, no one has talked about cuts, I repeat, not a single cut, for example, in political positions. We now have two vice-lehendakaris, we continue to have ideological chiringuitos, we continue to have the most expensive public television per inhabitant of Spain, we continue to have the highest number of politicians per inhabitant of Europe, and so we can continue until tomorrow. That is why I ask you, gentlemen of Podemos, to give up cheap populism and join the real cut, the cut that is worth it. We know that, since you have become a political caste, you continue to work alongside them, but let us be honest, your initiative is unworkable. Yes, it is true that by reducing chiringuitos Basque politics could help many people, entrepreneurs and workers, who need us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u66	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Popular Group-Ciudados. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. The pandemic has health and economic consequences – it is obvious – and I suspect we will all agree that we would not be here to discuss this issue if it were not for the pandemic. I really regret that my first intervention in this House is to announce that our group is going to vote against this non-legislative proposal, and I regret it because we come to this Parliament with the intention of collaborating, of building together, of laying hands, of making proposals and, ultimately, of being useful to the citizens, but on this occasion, we have no choice but to vote against it for two main reasons: first, because we are convinced that preventing or hindering companies from regulating their workforce and adjusting it to the needs of the market in times of crisis is a big mistake and involves condemning companies to bankruptcy and their entire workforce to unemployment. In the background of its proposal is the requirement that companies use the benefits obtained in previous years to maintain jobs that are not going to be needed now or in the future. Anyone who has undertaken a business project, however small, knows that without benefits, we simply don't have a business. There is no way to maintain a business project if it turns out to be unprofitable. And what to allocate, therefore, those benefits to temporarily, temporarily only would be possible, unnecessary jobs, is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, and is to pretend that those benefits serve to replace the social protection system that we have already established. Companies are moving in a fluctuating and flexible market, and at the moment we would almost say chaotic because we are in an unprecedented and global crisis, whose evolution, in reality, no one is able to predict. If we were to force companies to keep their costs rigid and prevent them from adapting – and remember that the wage cost is not cut because we have, or the companies have, a special pollution to the workers, but because it is the main cost, the one that most affects the results – if we were to do this, if we were to force companies to keep this type of rigid cost, we would be endangering the whole business project, which in turn is generating wealth and employment for many people. In the long term, we would also be making an environment unattractive to other companies and therefore less competitive. In the long run that wouldn't be good for Euskadi. The companies, ladies and gentlemen, do not fire on whim or on usury, as can be seen from your amendment, which we will vote against. Nothing hurts a businessman or a manager more than having to get rid of teams that have carefully selected, those that have formed for years and in which they have invested time, energy, illusion and money, and with which they have shared a period of collaboration that has often generated, even, intense personal relationships. When a company, when a manager feels the obligation to resort to such drastic measures, it is because it is prudent not to endanger the entire company or its jobs. And, as any first-time entrepreneur of Enterprise knows, any student, forgiveness, first-time entrepreneur, this is the right thing to do and what requires responsible management. We have no doubt that when companies do this because it is the last resort, we are sure that it is. And we agree with you that when this period of collaboration ends, for whatever reason, employees must be adequately covered by the public system that we have given ourselves social protection. I would be concerned that these employees would not receive the statutory compensation, would not be covered by the unemployment benefits established or would not have the opportunity to train and recycle to gain access to another job, perhaps under better conditions than the previous one. Well, we'll talk about Lanbide's operation another day. And it's that businesses and entrepreneurs are not enemies, ladies and gentlemen. Let's not let ideology confuse us. The enemy is poverty and unemployment, and companies are the solution. That we have entrepreneurial people who decide to risk their heritage, to let go of the skin for raising a business project that generates wealth and employment is something commendable that we should recognize and encourage instead of attacking, denouncing, criticizing and hindering. And that said, and it is not incompatible at all, we express our support to all those who, due to the crisis of the COVID, see themselves in a situation of precarious work and are in danger of their jobs. It is a consequence of the epidemic not desired by anyone, but which we have to deal with in the most reasonable way possible. Secondly, we will vote that it is not because we understand that the role of the Government is not to support unprofitable or uncompetitive companies with public aid, nor to intervene in the way in which these companies are managed, but to create the conditions for Basque companies to grow healthy and compete successfully in international markets. We do not want zombie companies, which survive thanks to arbitrary aid or public contracts. Let everyone play their part: the government regulates and facilitates business and the company invests, risks, manages with prudence and competes freely in increasingly complicated international markets. We need to be very careful with government intervention in private companies, with contracts, subsidies and participations, because often, in the long term, they lead to insane relationships that generate clientelism, and sometimes corruption. And in Euskadi we have been ruled by them for 40 years and this phenomenon is well known to us. It's time to open the windows and ventilate. Therefore, from here I take the opportunity to announce to you that our commitment to political regeneration is firm, and that we will investigate and denounce all the client networks, the huge constellation of chiringuitos, the constant and blatant revolving doors, the dubious subsidies, the cooked contracts that for decades have grown in Euskadi as mushrooms... And we will do so because that is what the thousands of Basque citizens who have voted for us and the many who have not voted for us or anyone else because they feel disenchanted with the current political system are waiting for us. We're at the end of a cycle, and if crises are good for something, it's for renewal. Old politics cheat less people every day, we just have to go out on the street and listen. The Basque citizens are telling us that they want a clean and effective administration that is not at the service of any political project, and we not only agree with this, but we will work actively for the political regeneration of this country. And in this task all parties, institutions, associations and groups who truly feel committed to this goal will find us with their hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u68	Thank you, Mr. Gil. After the answer shift, together with the Podemos-Bauker. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u69	You're wrong, Mr. Gil, to say that if it weren't for the pandemic, we wouldn't be facing such an initiative today. I sincerely say this, because in the previous parliamentary term, and certainly in others – I have only been in the previous one – there have been other initiatives of this kind, because in this case, as I said earlier in my speech on the issue that we bring to the House, the excuse that some companies are using to do these practices is the situation created after the pandemic, but on other occasions it has been the situation created by the previous crisis or, simply, by contexts related to specific sectors, etc. But you are right in one thing: there is an ideological component in our initiative, of course, there is an ideological component, I am not going to catch my fingers, but I believe that in virtually all the initiatives that we can bring to this House. And let us not be fooled, there is an ideological component in most of the initiatives that any group brings to this House, and there is an ideological component in the amendments and positions that any group stands for on any issue we discuss in this House. It is true that on some issues more than on others. And I knew that we were going to be told – because we have been told many times – Mrs Sánchez, with whom I agree, the measures that have been taken by the state government are a very important restraint, but that is precisely why it is not acceptable that companies that have had millions of profits in recent years, that are important companies that are not going to disappear if certain measures are not taken that are already being taken, and that they have been supported by the public, with public money – because the ERTEs are paid with public money; they are a saving of economic cost to very important companies – so we say that it is not acceptable for them to do this kind of approach. We are not asking the Basque Government to prohibit dismissals or to do things that it cannot do. We are asking you to have... and this Parliament, because we are asking this Parliament, to have a strong attitude to say that certain approaches that make certain companies, powerful companies that have had benefits, are approaches that are not acceptable, because it is not acceptable, and we think so, that companies that have had significant benefits, that have no real problems tell workers that they have to cut wages or reduce staffing. It is not a question of maintaining jobs that are useless; it is a question of maintaining jobs that are useful for those companies to move forward. Or can companies only have a future when they reduce labour costs? Then we say that there is no class struggle; I believe that in these matters it is obvious that there is class struggle. That is why we are defending the initiative we have brought. We think it's a two-part initiative. A first part, if you want, more declarative, but that seems to us essential for the workers in these companies to feel the support of the public authorities, the support of the public administration, the support of the House that represents popular sovereignty. And a second, to ask, as I said before, the Basque Government that it has to have another role in the intervention of the industry, because today the future of the industry decides those interests of these companies, and that has an effect on the people living in Euskadi. And that's what we're asking. I finish already – because I will be in time, Madam President – but I did want to say something to Mrs Martínez. Look, I've been doing the same thing my mother, my dead father, my grandmother, my grandfather, my other grandmother and my other grandfather have been doing for my whole fucking life. Do you understand me? And I am sure that my parliamentary group too. In my parliamentary group – I know them – they have worked; some have worked in the public administration; others have worked in private companies. I have worked in the private company, and I have had some studies because my mother and father, who did not have studies, worked their whole lives, and my mother could not quote more than very little, because of the discrimination suffered by the woman. Please don't accuse us of such matters, because if we're proud of anything, it's working class. There is a working class and there is a class struggle, and you have shown it here today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u70	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u71	Well, for the first time, and since we have but a short time, I'd like to congratulate Jon Hernandezi for bringing this proposal to-day, and because he has given us the opportunity of giving us a complete Lieutenant. I'm sure that to everyone, if I tell you to remember the map of Africa or, for example, the map of the United States, what comes to mind is those straight borders, drawn to a squadron and a card, right? When a company says that it has to fire just 15% of workers, that it has to fire 500, or that it has to take off 20% of the workforce, what it is doing is cuts not linked to a fall in productive activity, but a predetermined plan to cut a number x of the workforce. They're squad cuts and billboard cuts. The companies, said the representative of the People's Party, do not fire on whim or on usury. I'm kind of in agreement. By whim, no; by usury, sometimes yes, to earn more money, to earn more money even at the expense of people's rights, even at the expense of people's opportunity to earn a living. For usury, yes. Markets love staff cuts. And when certain company managers, led by that logic of "business sharks", the only thing they have to offer is a greater dividing or a greater value of action to their shareholders, they can fall into the temptation to make cuts, precisely, to provoke that. For usury. And yes, it's happening. And it seems a lie that here, from the left, we have to explain how the modern business world works to those who presume to be so close to that world, because there are also companies that take part in the workforce with more seniority because it involves a higher labour cost, and replace it either by new people to establish double pay scales, or to subcontract work to a subcontractor in working conditions, because, often, they are short. And here we have the corollary, for example, of accidents at work, apart from precariousness and instability. Yeah, that happens in the business world. And it's not about satanizing or saying that everything entrepreneurs, companies, do is wrong. Not much less. But this in this group we have very clearly the definition and the difference between "enterprise", "entrepreneur", "business association" and "entrepreneur". And in this case we do say that companies that have profits have a responsibility to their community. And I will not now imitate Mr. Iglesias by discovering the virtues of the Spanish Constitution, but it is that the social function of property is even enshrined in that very Constitution. And what you can't do is fill your pockets, put the box whenever there's a call for public money and, at the beginning of the change, put the layoffs as the only solution. We repeat: There's a case. And sometimes corporations are very bad, and they have a financial charge, or a deep problem in their market, or their product is out of date, or a new competitor who is unsuperable, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. And not me or my team, the unions and the workers that admit the first, are the only ones who need to talk about different things in these conditions. And there, for instance, is a euphemism, to say "austes no traumtaicos," osalidas negociadas, "salidas pacadas." We all know what the real world is like, and we're all ready to agree to accept things in these extreme situations, but what we won't tolerate is to change the logical order of things and to place it on the table from the first moment. And the patriarchal is blackmailing. And at the end of the patronal, when he says: "There's no mano masjadors o se quedan todos con menor coste de la em firme," is what he's trying to do, "now come the restrictions to you or you'll have to accept the red street, and you'll be consolidarias." And we won't accept that. And we won't even accept the gunman. But we say again: In 2008, we're not ready to accept the fraud, and we'll stand before us as an excuse if you want to attack the workers' conditions, jobs, and solitae.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u72	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u73	Mr Hernández, I believe that, of course, the concern that the largest number of jobs will be maintained, that the largest number of companies will be maintained, because the largest number of companies will be able to maintain the largest number of jobs as well, we have absolutely all of them. And so do we. In my speech I have defended, and it is also very clearly reflected in the government agreement, that we are going to bet on social dialogue, because, of course, among all these measures that we are going to have to continue to take, I believe that dialogue with the workers, with the representation of the workers, the representation of the companies and the Basque Government itself is the fundamental thing. Seeking the most appropriate measures to ensure that the negative effects that companies and workers are experiencing are as little as possible. And that's where we are, and that's where they're going to find us in the Basque Government. Logically, as it couldn't be otherwise. I guarantee that, Mr Hernandez. We will therefore continue to support and take measures to achieve greater business maintenance and job maintenance within our autonomous community. And, therefore, that concern we have absolutely all, do not have the slightest doubt, and there we will always find ourselves, in seeking the best solutions to achieve the best results for all our companies and all our workers. Today in this initiative we have not managed to reach an agreement, but we have not managed to reach an agreement – I explained it perfectly in my first speech – because I think it is not well-suited, because in its wording it seems that it is necessary to prevent dismissals by the Basque Government towards companies or that certain possibilities that the parties have within the scope of collective bargaining must be eliminated and, of course, we are not the ones to tell the parties what measures they can take and what they cannot. The parties are free to decide, evaluate, because within companies no one better than that company and its workers, and its representatives, know what is the best situation they can look for in order to be able to move forward together, because it is about following together in the best possible conditions so that the effects are the least negative possible and the consequences are the least possible that we are suffering as a result of this pandemic, and that we still have time, and therefore we have to go one way, and that way is better for us to walk them all, if we can, and reaching agreements all, among all the political groups. That, of course, I agree. And I also believe that the rest of the political groups. So, well, we'll keep seeing our faces here on other initiatives. I'm sure we'll reach agreements in many cases. We will agree, but I have explained to you why, the reasons I did not see, because this initiative was not well focused on its drafting, and we do not agree. In substance, I have already told you that, of course, how we will not agree that it is best to seek the best measures to keep the largest number of companies, to keep the largest number of jobs within our autonomous community. That's where he's gonna find us. And in the government agreement, of course, all the measures that have been collected to achieve that goal are very clear. And, therefore, we are going to support our amendment as a whole, which more clearly reflects that support for those measures that I know need to be taken, it also highlights the social dialogue, which is very important on the path we have to take from now on to achieve that social reconstruction. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u74	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u75	Yes, thank you. Mr. Gil, I will begin by telling you that no one can stand as a spokesman for the abstainers. They have no spokesman, or they will have him in other areas; not in this Parliament. Secondly, I would say to you that you cannot be a spokesman for the majority either when society gives you a non-majority role in this Parliament for the time being. Secondly, you have spoken of "chiringuitos" and so on, of "institutions of low transparency". I would tell you that the standards of transparency in which Basque institutions move, standards of transparency internationally approved, are much higher than in most institutions, I cannot say all, but that in many institutions governed by the People's Party. Thirdly, you have also mentioned the word "corruption". The perceived and actual corruption demonstrated in our community is much lower than in many of its communities. So, in that sense, well, I'd ask you for some prudence. Mr. Hernandez I want to remind you that the Minister of Labour is your party, huh? I want to say that it seems that there is going to be a large amount of EUR billion of lost and credited aid from the European Union. Euskadi will catch us in the fourth industrial revolution. We will certainly have a powerful portfolio of projects to present to Spain, to the government in which you participate. Let's see what state they're in. Let's hope so. And to Mr Casanova, you say that "the adviser is an ideological icebreaker that imposes the debate on wages when the issue is not on the table in Europe". Well, first of all, it's obviously on the table constantly, it's an aspect that tensiones society, all the societies of the world, what happens is that, well, it's possible that here it's a little bit more in... public square gehiago egongo da, agian, front politico-sindikal akuñatu We are going to reverberate, if it is not clear, that the Government does not make a general call for a reduction in salaries, it calls for an analysis of enterprise by enterprise. And yes, the reduction of wages can be a solution, sometimes suggested by the company committee itself, which, in solidarity with colleagues who could be dismissed, chooses to lower their salary or reduce their working hours. I'm gonna end up with a metaphor that's a false metaphor. It's a boulevard that "in Japan the crisis is synonymous with opportunity", the "crisis" austerity for austerity Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u76	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. The President of the Mist, Mrs Martínnez, must not speak a word. Mr. Gil has his word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u77	The truth is that I'm a little surprised to hear that "the pandemic," that "the previous crisis is excuses, it's not reality." Okay. But let's get this straight, please. Are Tubacex, ITP, Aernnova a problem or a wealth? From our point of view, it is clear that its presence in Euskadi is an important asset for this country, which has generated and is generating wealth and employment. And we would like to see many more companies of this type, of this size, and of other sizes, and of other types, and of other sectors. Therefore, I believe that what does not proceed in any way is that we should be devoting ourselves to insulting them, calling them "entrepreneurs" We do agree that the government still has a lot of work to do to get many more such companies to come. And the first thing I think we need is a clear strategy, a well-defined strategy, which will allow us to put all the public resources at the service of that strategy. A strategy to help businesses, so that businesses generate jobs, so that everyone has more wealth, so that more taxes are paid, so that there is more public money too, so that more money can be distributed. First, before we distribute, we have to generate it. In that sense, nothing, a simple equation: first think the strategy, consensus it, bet and impart. Because, in fact, we think that we all share a goal, I suppose, and that is that we want the business network of Euskadi to grow, that this is a more attractive territory for more companies, that there are more entrepreneurs, that there are more people who decide, instead of asking for employment, to offer it to others, and that, in that sense, we have a much richer and much more prosperous society, which is necessarily because it risks, that is, because it is entrepreneurial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u78	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Now that the discussion's over, we'll go to the vote. First we vote together the United States of Podemos and the midway corrections that have been signed by the EH Collect. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u79	We haven't made the call to vote, and we have... Oh, yeah, it's done? Okay. Well, nothing, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u80	Thank you. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters 23; contraries, 48; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u81	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. We'll next vote for the Eucabertians and the Socialists of Basque Socialists, a full-signed correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 41; contraries, 25; white, 0; abstaining, 6.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u82	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The same proposition as the parliamentary organization of Céranos, in the formation of a poncie, within the Committee of Rule and Government, in order to examine the reform of the Euscial Rule. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barri, representative of the Basque Popularo-Ciudadans, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u83	I'll scream. Thank you, Madam President. From the People-Citizens Group we understand this initiative timely in the first ordinary plenary of this legislature. That is to say, on the second item on the agenda, we have dealt with an initiative, the proposal for a law on partial reform of the Rules of Procedure, and this too wants to affect the improvement of our Rules of Procedure, as I will briefly explain. We have reached an agreement with the amending groups. So I think the willingness is to work in the House on what we are going to put forward. But I'm going to explain it briefly. It is necessary, indeed, and we have all seen that, and those of us who are Members of Parliament have seen that there is a need for a full analysis of the rule that regulates us. An analysis that we can do in different ways. Legal services may make their report. Undoubtedly, in the same way that they have contemplated deficiencies or shortcomings in relation to telematic voting, delegated voting, meetings..., they will contemplate them in many other issues that affect parliamentary activity, parliamentary organisation, control, impulse, commissions of inquiry... That is, there are a number of issues, and many aspects, that are likely to improve. Then, an analysis of the legal services. And then also an analysis and proposals from the parliamentary groups themselves to improve the rule governing our parliamentary organisation. In the last reform it went quite, let's say, voluntarist In the Basque Parliament, at the end of the eighth parliamentary term, a new regulation was adopted, which I do not satisfy all the groups, since, well, it left out many... Some reforms, issues that would certainly help to improve the legislative drive and control work of the government assigned to this House. Some issues were left out, well, what was approved was approved, but some issues were left out. During the ninth parliamentary term, the presentation provided for in the second additional provision of the Rules of Procedure of the House was made, and on 30 July 2011 a first amendment to the Rules of Procedure was approved, following a report or opinion drawn up in the said presentation. The plenary session of the Basque Parliament, at its meeting on 21 March 2013, adopted an agreement giving the deadline of one month, since the adoption of the initiative, for "the establishment, within the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, of the planned submission". And then the "work to be done by the presentation will begin" as soon as possible in order to facilitate "the committee's report on the implementation of the Regulation, as well as any amendments deemed necessary". Well, after the presentation, the legislature ended without any result. Also, in a session held on March 9, 2017, the plenary of the House approved a compromise amendment following the debate of a non-law proposal of the People's Group, with the same or similar literal tenor, regarding that the plenary of the Basque Parliament also gave that one month for the constitution of the presentation "taking into account the challenges and demands in relation to the information, transparency and participation of citizens"... Well, something that we re-edit today, that is, that the entire past legislature was also unable to lead that process of reform of the Rules of Procedure. After the presentation, the last legislature also concluded the 11th legislature without having drawn up a report on the presentation, nor, consequently, any reform of the Rules of Procedure. That is to say, many issues remain pending in relation to the Rules of Procedure, many issues to speed up parliamentary work, to bring them into line with those needs for information, transparency, participation, but also for the impetus and control of more effective government action. In that sense, then, we have to do something. In addition, we have to say that, without prejudice to the above, it should be recalled that paragraph 1 of the second additional provision of the Rules of Procedure provides – something that has not been complied with – that: "A presentation by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Government will provide it with an annual report on the application of this Regulation, proposing, where appropriate, any amendments that it deems necessary". That is to say, that this Member knows – and has been quite pending – no report, and less of an "annual" nature, has been carried out on the application of the Regulation and its possible amendments in relation to what is our activity, and, moreover, once the presentation has been made. So this same additional provision already shows that it has to be corrected, that it has to be amended or that it has to be explained so that the Regulation can be applied in practice. Various issues and issues that need to be refined, improved and even regulated have been identified and continue to be identified ex novo There are many more issues to change: on the guarantees of effective control and leadership of government action by parliamentarians in the Permanent Chamber. Also, apart from the Permanent Chamber, from ordinary work, there are many things identified: the regulation of certain procedural issues that the current Regulation omits, that have to be adopted or improvised at some point; other issues related to designations; issues that have to do with the special commissions, that is, with times, with deadlines... That is, there are important issues to work on. There seems to be a great need for a presentation to be made in order to carry out a lot of work on these issues, the work of the legal services, without a doubt, and the work of the parliamentary groups, and the work of the paper itself. And, above all, in order not to disappoint, to avoid..., we had set a deadline, but, well, we understood that what has to be done is to work, to really link to the work in the paper, to do it, I believe that with conviction, because if there is no reform, if there is no adaptation to those needs of transparency, participation, government control, there will be frustration. In other words, it would be regrettable if that presentation would again prove, after the legislatures, to be failed or ineffective again. That is why we have put forward this non-law proposal. In the end, we were able to agree with the two amending groups. Well, we had understood a deadline –2021–, we were asked not to set the deadline to be able to work... Well, as we take it in this first plenary session, but I say again: the need to reform a regulation cannot be frustrated again, because reforming the regulation means more agility, it means more effective control of the government, a work of impetus, and a parliamentary work which, of course, the beneficiary, apart from his fellow Members, is society itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u84	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing the corrections to the teams, Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u85	Thank you, President. I'll scream. By sharing virtually all of Mr Barrio's presentation, I would like to thank him in advance for his willingness to agree with the amending groups on that transacted amendment, which I believe will be adopted by a very large majority. In March 2017 we had the opportunity to discuss an initiative similar to today, which we are dealing with. On that occasion, we had an amendment with the then author, which was adopted unanimously and which is almost the same as the proposal brought to us by the People-Citizens Group. At that time, in my speech in the debate, I highlighted that the most important, most substantial, reform took place in 2008. And the principle that inspired that change was the principle of the maximum possible agreement. The most important aspect of the regulatory change was not so much its scope as achieving maximum consensus in its terms. And today we start from an unprecedented fact, which preceded the debate on this initiative, which was the adoption of the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament on an urgent basis and by the single reading procedure. In view of the exceptional situation caused by the persistence of the COVID-19 pandemic and in order to guarantee the principle of representation, both because it is the axis of the democratic system and because it is indispensable to the functioning of the Chamber in order to meet, through the impetus and control of the Government, the urgent needs arising from the current crisis. The regulatory amendment of 2008 made it possible for the Basque Parliament, without doubt, to be more agile in its operation, to be much closer to the interests and concerns of citizens and to move forward with greater transparency. It also made it possible to revitalize parliamentary work and to establish more effective mechanisms for monitoring the management of the Government. In 2011 – as Mr Barrio said – a timely and non-substantial amendment was made to some aspects of the Regulation, which some considered as adjustments and which were necessary for the dysfunctions that had occurred in the practical application of the Rules of the House. The Rules of Procedure and their amendments have enabled the House to gain credibility with society and facilitate parliamentary work. And, although we have sometimes adapted to the times without the need to amend the Rules of Procedure, as when, for example, on the proposal of the Basque Socialists, Parliament opened a portal of transparency, because there was political will to do so, in the matter now before us, what is appropriate is to comply with the second additional provision of the Rules of Procedure of the Basque House. The Basque Socialists believe that the laws and rules of operation, such as the Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament, should be rules and laws sustained over time – and more so when their adoption has had very broad consensus – which is not at all incompatible with the incorporation of some solutions to dysfunctions or misadjustments that are occurring. Therefore, the mechanism that allows the second additional provision of the Regulation to make agile revisions on an annual basis, which are adapting and improving it for the benefit of the functioning of Parliament and parliamentary work, is a mechanism that allows this institution – as I said – to be more agile, to be more effective, to be more transparent and to be more participatory. I agree with Mr Barrio: let us hope that the attempt will not be frustrated on this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, this average proposition is a classic in this Chamber, isn't it? Last time I read, he reminded me of a moment like the El Almendron Turon or in the Blessed Week of Ben-Hur La Tuúnica sagrad. The regulation of the legislative, the regulation of any parliament, is a fundamental law, a law which regulates the fundamental relations of life, the law which regulates ordinary activity. And therefore, if it be necessary, or if it be convenient, to make it with open consent, in the laws of the fundamental laws, which regulate fundamental activities and relations, it is still more necessary to make it with extensive agreements, and to make it with great consent. Not only in order to penetrate the opinions of the majority, but above all to respect the rights of the minority. The regulation currently in force in Parliament in 2008, already amended in 2011, is still a young law. We could say that it is, from the point of view of the laws, almost a puber, especially in the regulations of parliaments. It is even 18 years younger, as a parliamentary institution, than Mr Barrio himself or Mr Egibar in this Parliament. Therefore, we are facing a "younger" in Parliament, bigger than I am, that is true. Although some think that I am part of Parliament's furniture, I am a follow-up to the 2008 regulation. True, it is true that with the day to day adaptation needs are being detected, needs for small modifications, what happens is that when a melon of the characteristics of a regulation is opened, of a law that orders the basic relations, fundamental in a parliament, because the needs, the desires, the wills of one and the other are, on most occasions, very opposed, and if we start from the basis that a regulation requires or that it is positive that a regulation concitates the widest possible majority, because it happens, these two realities have combined that which we have spent years without being able to cope with this renewal. In this respect, the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group and by us, which was then sexed, accepted by Mr Barrio and sexed – in that sense I thank and acknowledge his provision – sought to make the non-legislative proposal more realistic, because we know the experience we have experienced, because we know what it means to deal with the reform of a regulation and because we are not setting a deadline for a third party to do something, we are setting ourselves a deadline which we have already failed to do on other occasions, because we are aware of the difficulties that compliance has, because, basically, the fulfilment of the deadline or that this reform is being made more quickly or more slowly will depend on the provision and the possibilities of agreement that exists. In this respect, the amendment that we and the Socialist Group have tabled rather than – and I believe that this is what the People's Party has understood in a positive way with the will that we present it – rather than the defence of the interests of the majority of the Government is a guarantee to the minority of Parliament, to the opposition groups, because the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Group have an absolute majority in the House; therefore, if it were to meet the deadline, by the end of 2021, it would only be necessary to implement the voting system – votes in favour, votes against, abstentions – and we would comply with the proposed law. But this is not about that, it is not about that because we are, as I said, trying to change the basic legislation that regulates our relations and that has to be, as I said, of course an expression of the majority will of the House, but also a guarantee for the minority, for minority groups or for the minority of the House. I believe that – and here I am going to advance a committee, I think it is already advancing part of the position in the paper – I believe that the first thing we would have to eliminate is the second additional provision of the Rules of Procedure. The laws in general are made with a vocation of permanence over time, one does not pass laws to change them all the legislature, well, yes, those of education in the Spanish state, but, let's go, the other thing is not that the legislature to legislature go, according to the regime of majorities and minorities, changing the legislation. They have a vocation of permanence. If the law itself is saying, "Listen to you, annually review me and help me," when you know how difficult it is to get majority agreements, because it seems to me to be a... I do not know why Pepe Rubalcaba and Rodolfo Ares, to whom I have great respect, agreed to introduce this additional provision into the Regulation. I think it was a mistake, and if we take it off we will do us all a favour, because, moreover, the Rules themselves already set out the possibilities of adapting to the times, of modifying them through interpretative resolutions of the Presidency and other parliamentary institutions, which we have been practicing, and that the Rules have been adapting to reality. Y term, term... I'll end by thanking a person and saying good-bye. It's the last meeting of my teammates today. And I offered him to take this point in my place to say good-bye, but he said no, because I don't know whether or whatever. And he wanted to leave like the Madriols without saying anything, but I want to tell him from here that ten years of work, that ten years of practice is worth another goodbye. On my behalf, I think, and on behalf of the Eucan patriots, I thank you for all the work you've done to the team. It was very helpful to me. That's too bad. At last, all the vibes have gone away and we're still here, I don't know if we'll end up as "mobilaries." Thank you, Jone, and good way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u88	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Together represent the Podemos team. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u89	Thank you, ma'am. By this faculty, what the Popular Party makes is the first step to transform the rule of this Parliament. It proposes, doesn't it? That's the proposition. This is the formation of reflection, reform, and modification. In this sense, and have been mentioned by others, who have spoken before me, I think it is in order to adjust the rules themselves, that a necessary mechanism, which I think, foreseeing herein, is set up, that is, an additional regulation, according to which, every year, it would be necessary to consider how things should go, and how things should be adapted. And this additional regulation, as Carmelus Barrius has said, has been ignored. Apart from this, it has been ignored, and the result of the caring and adaptation of this organization has been prevented. Beraz, ekimen honi aldeko botoa emango diugu – beste modu batera ezin zen izan – eta aldeko botoa emango diugu gure ustez proposeamen hau egokia dellako eta zuzena dellako hainbat arrazoirengatik: for effectiveness and to promote legal certainty, for democratic reason, too, and to promote citizen participation. That is why we believe that it is important to reform the Rules of Procedure of this institution and that we will therefore vote in favour of a presentation on the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Government. And I'm trying to explain these reasons. Efficacy. If we talk about effectiveness, I believe that the experience of the last few months, in an unprecedented health emergency context and with the Basque Parliament dissolved by the electoral call, has revealed the lack of adequate parliamentary mechanisms to deal with exceptional situations. Hence, among other things, the reform proposed in the first item on the agenda of this plenary meeting, which we have all adopted. But there's something else, there's something else. In this unusual state, the Consistent Committee has been the organ which has taken upon itself the activity of this Parliament. And there is something that has become very clear to us these days, and has not had the capacity which it ought to have to have been able to answer its role properly. And this want of capacity has been especially remarkable in the function of the Government peculiar to the House of Parliament, in respect to the function of control and of promotion. Zuzenbideari gerturatzeko modu desberdinak daude eta niri gustutuko litzaidake horietako bat azpimarratzea, eta hau da pentsatzea zuzenbideak ahularen alde jokatzen duela boteretsuren gehiegikeriari muga jarriz. That is the greatness of the rule of law, the recognition that power, also power, is subject to legal rules. And transferred to the rules of operation contained in a parliamentary regulation, it means reducing the margin of arbitrariness of the strongest and favouring the democratic principle and political pluralism. I think, we believe, our team believes it is necessary that the transformation of the ruler should not be avoided by the parallel of parlamentary enterprises. That this should not be avoided by parlamentary enterprises. And there's another reason why we vote for it. I should even say, in reply to the romances we have of the future, that the reform of the Rule is necessary to enable us to participate in the members of the community. For example, let us give a better way to the popular executive, the demand for the non-commissioned bactoge, for instance, 6,000, but in particular, and more important than that, let us give the true way. We do not forget what happened in the previous legislation with two initiatives, one for the inclutive school, and the other to prevent poverty and social neglect. Both of them had an excess of formal demands, they got over it, but they had not given them the way to cross. Véas la paradoja: una ciudadía activa, participathiva, que cómo sus propuestas, firadas porás de 51.000 persons, respectivente, deca's manos de una institición que, teóricamente, la presenta. Dar cauce a estos debatæs una cuestion de democracia. Experience shows us, the progressing policy frackinga We cannot continue to rely on the Rules of Procedure of this House to obstruct citizens' initiatives, nor to boast about it. We are not well aware of our role in political and legislative life if we are not able to appreciate the potential that society offers us. We are renouncing democratic values that citizen participation embodies, and all this for maintaining a status quo. Let us be courageous, and be able, too, to incorporate other mechanisms that are already in place in other parliamentary bodies, such as, for example, citizen motions or the creation of a committee of citizens' petitions, mechanisms that are in progress elsewhere, in other parliaments around us; let us learn from these experiences elsewhere and open channels for the use of the word of the citizen in this plenary; let us explore open Parliament formulas, such as the one held, by the way, in Navarre around food sovereignty; let us also enable the appropriate skills and knowledge on ICTs necessary for certain tools of participation created. In short, the paper is a good opportunity to assess all these issues to which I am referring; the paper and its evaluation report should be a good starting point for building agreements that also nurture the announced "law of transparency and citizen participation" of our autonomous community. We will see if this legislative initiative arrives. But in the meantime, let us begin to work together in this paper on how to improve the participation of citizens in which, as is said, it is the home of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u91	Thanks again, ma'am, and good noon to all. On the second point in the subject's list we have spoken about the ruler's rule, and at the last point, again, we are able to discuss this book. What is reflected on in this other proposition of the Law, is nothing else than what the Rule receives, just the same argument as that which we had during the legislation passed, which at the first period, at the time, at the entrance of the Garden. What was demanded in the year 2017, and to-day demands, is to form a power, with two different ends: The first, on the one hand, is to report the yearly, in order to appreciate or evaluate the application change of this rule, and the second to receive proposals for recommendations and to plan new things. We are to consider that the rule regulates our activity and that this rule ought to be alive, and that this regulation is often, in many senses, absurd. And we verify, for instance, that some articles must be arranged. We've often made a difference in these matters, and I've publicly made it myself in private meetings. X. XI. The same demands were made. and now 12th. In the legislatures, however, they did not succeed. And that's the question we have to ask, isn't it? Mr. Barrio, I share his proposal as much as you do, and as much as you say in the proposed part, I share it from top to bottom. Even what you said a few minutes ago. You mention various issues and subjects that need to be refined, improved and even modified ex novo I believe that we have had the longest Permanent Assembly – if I am not mistaken – in the history of Parliament. And, besides, it's been really active. And you know as well as we do the number of problems that have arisen during this pandemic, with Parliament already dissolved, in the Permanent Chamber, in the Permanent Chamber, in the Permanent Chamber, and you are fully aware that we share your concern, as we have shown and also denounced on more than one occasion. I would once again dwell on the attempts that have been made to amend this regulation. It's been three. There have only been two specific amendments and some other Presidency resolution. Orduan, zergatik ez da ezer egin? You see, in 2017 I ended my speech in the same way that I also took the word "Kannik" three years ago, and I said: "On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we'll have done our homework in the year 2017. And we hope to end it much better than in the legislature." Jo, I was wrong, I was very wrong. He hasn't done anything, he hasn't done a single meeting. And why? Now because there was no political agreement, among other things, there were correlations of this legislature in 2017. That is to say, as we say in the Dutchmen in order to regulate the rule, there should be a great deal, and this agreement was not given. On the other hand, in our opinion, what are the principles necessary for this profound adaptation? Now, to spread transparency, to divide the citizens and increase their information. We at least do not understand the activity of political groups without transparency; we believe in the mutual intercourse of men and the participation of citizens. It should also be aimed at this regulatory change, as it should ensure that this right of political participation is ensured, by helping us in our work of impulse and control of the Government – I have also said this in the previous point – by taking into account the criteria of proportionality, and also by taking into account, as Mrs Gorrotxategi said, the initiatives of the citizenry, right? In short, it should regulate our work, but also facilitate it. And I'm sorry, Mr. Barrio, but I don't think the needs we share with you in this case will be fulfilled. If this power is founded, the parlamentary groups which support the government here too are the rhodillos. Let us bear in mind that we are not talking about a GNP – with all due respect also to the non-legislative proposals, which we debate so much, in which we urge the Government to do certain things and then fulfil, or not – we are talking about something much more serious, about the modification of the rule that directs us and also protects us. This modification, therefore, can give us wings or cut them off. Amendment which, if carried out, may be in force for another three or four legislatures, or until, well, there is another correlation of different forces that agree to make the changes they then consider. We are at the beginning of the legislation, and in the second point of the subject we have taken care to facilitate our presence and participation. Well done, that's done already. But, in our opinion, what is important to-day is to answer the wants of the people. We've got plenty of things to do, I've noticed them at the front point, and that should be our primary concern, and we should work with the necessity of repairing all these problems, and we're seeing them on the list of things today, thanks to the opposition. Therefore, Mr. Barrio, this regulation is not given the conditions to change, no political conditions are given. If, however, this form is produced, we shall share with Angelono! We will carry with us such propositions as non-non-non-roach, which we always do, but if the situation which we feel is given, then we will denounce it. Throughout the remaining interventions – I don't know if anyone else is going to take the floor – we will certainly hear – or if not, we will do it in private – that we are wrong, that a presentation of the great agreements will be created. And we believe that this presentation is really going to be a test to prove, as they said in the previous point, that when the contents are sensible there are agreements. Mr Iturrate also spoke of "broad agreements", he said on several occasions. Well, we'll see how "wide" these agreements become or whether they conform to the "wide" that gives them absolute majority and stays precisely there. We will see whether it is really going to act in accordance with democratic principles. If so, you will have four years to remind me; and if I am wrong, as in 2017, you will tell me; and if it is not and I am right, for I also have four years to repeat to you what we have more than clear today, that we are going to see the roller again. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Passing the answer turn, representative of Basque Popular-Ciudadans. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u93	I did not intend to intervene again, but, in any case, I think I do have to tell Mrs Blanco that this is the right time. We have four years, theoretically, ahead to work on a topic that is pending, that is ankylated, that needs unlocking and working. And what I trust is that we are able to overcome the roll, we are able the opposition groups to convince the government groups that certain issues of this regulation need to be reformed. And I suppose that the groups in the government today will also have a vision that at some point they can be in the opposition and benefit from agility in relation to the work of this House. So I believe that, if there is a parliamentary vision within the groups that support the government, within the Socialist Party or within the Basque Nationalist Party, they will see that the Rules of Procedure have to be an instrument at the service of democracy and parliamentary activity, of course, at every moment. And in that sense, let us hope and trust that it will be so. I would also like to say to Mr Iturrate that he has made two mentions of this initiative as a "classic" because, indeed, it is a classic. He was talking about the "El Almendro Tourn" coming back for Christmas, Ben-Hur's movies. The sacred robe The passion according to Saint Matthew I also want to say that we have an additional provision that is not being complied with, that is, a fundamental element to justify its amendment, but we also have to say that there are parliaments where the regulation is amended every year, in relation to needs, as is the European Parliament. That is to say, in that sense, well, indeed, they are different chambers, but neither should we be afraid of that issue. If agile procedures are needed, we will do so. And, finally, I also say goodbye to Mrs Berriozabal. I just found out that he's leaving us, for the government's honeys, surely. In any case, I wish you the best. We have been in two parliamentary groups, we have had many confrontations and many differences, but it has united us one cause, which is the Saharan cause, and there we have been like two brothers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u94	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u95	With the permission of the presidency, from the seat, just to make a point. Firstly, I said that I hope that this possible amendment of the Regulation is not a frustrated possibility. The Basque Socialists are committed to working on this. But I would like to refer to something that Mrs Blanco has said. She's talking about rollers. There has been an entire legislature, the previous one, in which the Government was in a minority. In many of the initiatives that the opposition has wanted to take forward, it has joined forces to make these changes. I could have done so by amending the Rules of Procedure. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. Iturate. He mustn't speak. Does Mrs. Hatch have to take the word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u97	Just tell me one thing. We'll vote for this initiative because we think it's the right thing to do, but I'd like to say that we're also sorry that it doesn't have a deadline on this transaction that's been made. It's usually the best way not to get excited is not to be able to keep up with work like this. And I hope you're wrong about it and not be like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u99	With your permission from the seat, Mrs. President. Just to comment to the PSE representative. Well, I was saying why we didn't agree in the last legislature. For I am going to tell you one thing, I am more afraid of the agreement of this legislature than the agreement of the last legislature, for all that I said in my first speech. And I understand that the Gorrotxategi sign has confidence in this agreement, in the creation of this paper, because it is new and has not suffered what some of us have suffered these years, and a few months ago. What surprises me is that Mr. Barrio is so confident in this paper. I think only two things can happen here. One, or that nothing is reached and next year we have again "The Almendro", Mr Iturrate, or that it is really an agreement, well, with that vast majority which means only the absolute majority. We have four years to talk, we have four years to see what happens. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. End of discussion, we're going to vote for the half-correction signed by Basque Populara-Ciudadans, Basque Socialists, and Eubertarians. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 54; the contrary, 0; abstainments, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u101	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of the popular group of Euscals, as made by the parliamentary band of Ciudadans, concerning the over-reaching demand of the eucalyptus at the access of public employment. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs Garrido, representing Ciudad Garrido, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again, chief of departments, members of the legislature. The Populative Party brings back a subject that concerns us people to discuss. As we are at the beginning of the law, we have found it convenient to bring this proposition back to the legislature, to propose a proposition concerning the public offering of the eucalypence. We see that the plan of the Government of the Ukullus is the same, and we have brought this proposition or topic back to the legislature, considering that there will be several public offerings in this law. When I have always defended this proposition, I have mentioned the same thing; This proposal is not opposed to the eucalyptus; it is favorable to justice. It's done to end up designing and to defend different linguistic reality in different places. In public offers of Euskara, the excessive value given to the Basques, we may safely say that it has become a problem, and has made it quite decisive to be in several public offerings, because the value given to the euca is at last superior to form and experience. We can say that clearly the demand of the Basquera, both in the assessment and merit, in relation to experience and training, and in the allocation of the different linguistic profiles in the places offered in the different public calls is not simple plus, but is an absolutely decisive element when it comes to accessing employment in the Administration. This situation, nobody escapes that it has generated a clear discomfort in the seekers or people who are already in the administration and who want to ascend in the public administration itself, because they see that, obviously, their possibilities are undermined with respect to those seekers who meet the demand, excessive demand, of the euskera in relation to other merits or who have to believe a profile that they cannot believe. We believe that the principle of equal access to public administration should be guaranteed. Ezinbastekoa da berdintasun-printcipioa bermatzea eskaintza publikoari buruz hitz egiten dugunean. And that, of course, we must seek a balance in what is the impulse of a language, in this case the Basque, one of the official languages in our autonomous community, with the demand of the Basque in the public offers of employment. And, above all, also take into account the socio-linguistic reality of each area. No one escapes that we cannot demand from a person who is working in the public administration the same level of Basque if we are talking about providing a service in the Goierri, where there is a high demand to speak in Basque and to provide a service in Basque, that in other areas where Basque is not spoken and the relationship with the Administration practically, in the consultations that are directed to the Administration, because it is not done in Basque, as can happen in the case of Vitoria. We believe that, since we are at the beginning of the legislature, as I said, and there are going to be public calls, it is necessary and it is time to correct an injustice that has been perpetuated over time and that frustrates many citizens who see how opposition after opposition is undermined their aspirations to gain access to public employment. Like I said, it can't take precedence. Ezin diogus one eman euskarari, formkuntza eta esperientziarekin konparatzen badugu. Nor can we allow, as is the case in the health field, many professionals to leave, because they do not know Basque or because they do not believe it at the level required. Then I would like to refer to another of the issues that I have always made clear, on the table, when I defended this initiative, which, as I say, is not the first time. I have been a parliamentarian for 14 years, and the parliamentarians who have been in this House for 14 years – Mr Egibar is not here, but he is one of them, and other parliamentarians I am seeing from the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party, and others who are obviously new – know that I have always brought this initiative to the House, as I said, for a reason of conviction and justice. Plus, when I'm lucky enough to know and speak both languages. And from my ability to choose, I want the rest of the citizens to be able to choose when they speak Basque or when they speak Spanish, or when they speak one of them, because, in the case of areas where Basque is not spoken, they can address the Administration in Spanish without any problem. As I said, dysfunctions occur. I think it is a great dysfunction, as I said, to demand that all public employees, a majority of public employees, who are attending a window of the Foral de Álava or the City of Vitoria know Basque when the demand in Basque is quite small in relation to what it may be in other areas of the Basque Country. More dysfunctions. This I think is also palpable – as I said, too, I have pointed out in many of my interventions –: in the end the demand for disproportionate euskera, as I said, in relation to other merits, such as training or experience, the accreditation of a certain linguistic profile in certain areas, and more so when it is also required as merit, leads to the fact that in the recruitment lists, and this is very visible in the medical specialties and in the sanitary specialties, because the professionals, thanks to this assessment of the euskera – that a PL2 is valued at 18 points, much above a doctorate or a master's degree – because it leads to the people who can attest that level of euskera being given those 18 points, pass to the first positions on the list, and then, when choosing destination, choose comfortable destinations, such as are the health centers that are in the provincial capitals, where precisely the demand for euskera is not the attention that can be in other areas, in the areas where there is no demand, in the areas where there is no such areas, in which there is a choice. I have made this clear on many occasions; I have told the Councilman, I have told the Lehendakari – which I am also sorry that I cannot be in this debate now – but I think we must turn to linguistic policy. Creo que, además, flacco favor le hace. It doesn't do him any good at all. For, in the end, there are many people who only ask him for a perfil when they come into the administration, but not because he really loves it. In this regard, as I said, I again present this initiative in which we ask for questions already repeated in previous initiatives. First, that the criteria for access to public employment offers be changed, that the knowledge of Basque about training or technical training and experience is not prioritized, that both the rules for the allocation of linguistic profiles for each post and the revision of the required score of Basque as merit are changed, and that the socio-linguistic reality of each area is respected and taken into account when assigning linguistic profiles. Furthermore, we believe that it is necessary to guarantee the principle of equal access in the provision of jobs, which is a constitutional principle and therefore a right of all citizens as set out in article 23 of the Constitution. No tengo más que una enimenda. Just a correction... Oh, no. I'm sorry, I've been introduced to two corrections, this proposition. On the one hand, EH Collector requires that the demand of eucharation should be required in all the jobs. We believe that this plan is opposed to justice, and that it is contrary to freedom and to the Constitution. Here the Constitutional Court has mentioned several times that it is not necessary and impossible to demand. Bestalde, Euzko Alderdi Jeltzaleak eta Alderdi Sozialistak aurkeztu duten zuzenketan exacten of the jarratzea prosesu... Indarrean dagoen prozesuarekin eta profilekin, dauzkagun profilekin. The truth is that the amendment of the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party says little, doesn't it? It goes on to say that "with the process of adapting and updating linguistic profiles". On this point, I am sorry, and I want to make an express mention, and I also do not know whether Mr Andueza was then in this House, but I am sorry for the turn that the Socialist Party has taken in this matter. I would like to recall, and we will all recall, Mrs Mendia's campaign in the 2016 elections, referring to how discriminatory the language policy of the Basque Government, Mr Urkullu, was when it came to accessing a job in the public administration. They even took a video. I don't know if it was because that was an election campaign. But, also, there is nothing more to go to the hemerotheque. The proposal that I am presenting here today was a proposal that the Socialist Party already signed in 2016. Exactly, the Socialist Party urged "the Basque Government to modify the rules for the allocation of linguistic profiles for each job", "and to review the score of the Basque as merit in future OPEs, with the aim of adapting the assessment of their knowledge to the socio-linguistic reality of the areas of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country". It is the same point that the Socialist Party signed – as I say – in 2016, just before making the video of the September 2016 campaign of autonomics. He also signed what he is not going to be able to sign today, to take as many measures as necessary to ensure "the principle of equal access in the provision of jobs and in the replacements in Osakidetza". And to also review the system of linguistic profiles. Well, everyone there, but I think that the citizens should know, also in this matter, where we are each, that the People's Party has always shown coherence in defending individual freedom, the euskera's impulse. But, of course, promoting a language cannot, in any way, undermine the rights to access, in this case, the public service, as I say, a basic right and a right recognized in the Constitution. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u103	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, representative of the EH Collector. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I've learned a lot about Feminism, but I think it's the essential thing to learn how to wear violet spectacles. You put purple glasses on so you can see the world differently. And to this end, it is a very easy and effective exercise, and it is either considered as normal or taken up a state of our own, and vice versa: where the man is, to see if a woman, or otherwise, is a match. Resulting, typically, demorre With our perception of language, and in our case of eucature, youth, and our view of it, I think the same exercise may be performed to see whether equality is equal or not, and, by the way, to wear glasses of eloquence. So today I invite you all to see the popular groups and the proposition that Ciudadan has presented with the glasses of eloquence. Exercise is very easy: Where it says "sacriday," put it "superal." And I'll show you an example. Jada, hasteko, izenburutik: "Rectification of the excessive demand of the 'Castellano' for access to public employment"; "... change of course in the disproportionate demand of the 'Castellano' in relation to other merits"; "Obligation of all aspiring public employment to the 'Castellano' domain as an indispensable requirement to opt for the post is unfair not only to opponents but also to many citizens"; "In order that the knowledge of the 'Castellano' does not become a determining element at the time of access to a post"; "... it is necessary to review the requirement of 'Castellano' (...) and the excessive assessment given to 'Castellano' in relation to other merits". He doesn't know what you're gonna think of him. I don't know if it was right, right, too much, too funny... I don't know what you think. But it must be remembered that the euca is as official a language as the Spanish euca for 40 years ago. 40 years at the same level, at least in the presence of the law, because we know that reality is someone else. Forty years of official service and yet, Mrs Garrido, you have tried to bring this discussion to the commons. That's a fact that language is not a divisional mode The Basque Administration has never experienced the unpleasant situation we are living at the present day, never in all its history; the health system is about to collapse, the professors are about to get mad, the profession, ask me how they are... And your first concern in this legislation, in the most serious crisis of the last 80 years, is that your first responsibility is to demand too much in public administration? But is this really your greatest responsibility, the most important of your constituents? You're concerned about the "governish business" and not about whether Madrid can make opals here or not, and not us here. Do you think that the biggest problem of public business is to be maintained? Let's get one thing straight first: The access to public employment is not "right," as you say, Mrs Garrido. He who has the best training for this will acquire the public employment, when I have the training of typology, as a whole, including the knowledge of languages. Don't come here all the time "what I prefer, a good doctor or a Basque doctor." For example, I know of eucalyptus, but I'm not to be accepted because I haven't studied medical medical medical at Osa, but I've got the right to take care of Osa in my company because he's as official as a young man. This is a right, and not the acquisition of employment. I think Ramon y Cagavore said that a doctor's best instrument is a chair because the best diagnosis is because the patient's listening. How do you listen to a patient in a language you don't understand? And you guys, do you really feel dissected? Have you ever met a official in the entire public administration who can't take advantage of his youth? Have you ever found anything like this? Is there anyone in the entire administration who doesn't know about his youth? There are several members of the Diaspo, who would have the right to work here, but who only know English and eucalyptic, who could work at the Basque Administration without knowing Spanish, even if they knew about the other language, euca? If the northerners knew French and euscan, would they be able to work in the Basque Administration? Do you feel dissected? Really? It's dissecting because one of the main people can't be nervous to go to the doctor because they can't understand the doctor, and he's got something to do with Spanish. It's dissectination that a pediatrica who doesn't know how to make it, ask some parents if their six-year-old child is nearly perfect, because he doesn't know how to talk about Spanish. Discrimination is absolutely vulnerable, vulnerable The knowledge of the Euskunecation cannot be merit, but it must be necessary to acquire a position in public administration. for the controversy is not here what the public labour requires, but how it is to serve better a citizen. The workman must adapt himself to the citizen and not to the reverse; the workman must provide public service in the two official languages. And we are not saying that today those who work in the Administration will lose their position in order not to know their position; Please don't use it between you, PP, Vox, Ciudadnos, who's more Spanish than Spanish. Look around us, the most advanced people in Europe. Mr. Brusko will know the case better than I do, because it's been there for years. Brussels is officially an elegant city, Flemish and French language are official, and the whole public administration is eloquent, and it is necessary to know both languages of public service. No one is disturbed by it, even though it's only 20% of the population that they're making flabandes. But you are not willing to observe the law, you who are zealous defenders of the law to violate the State and the Basque Act. What you propose does not contain, you know, any career. And I think you know that too. We'll see how much you are and how much less in the picture of the vote today. This town is going before you, and this town has gone over you for a long time. People of Araba, Bitazia, and Gipuzia have a clear idea that we all want the best of public services. And you think that's what you're gonna want, too. And that's why we all have to be the same in front of the Administration, because we all have the right to receive the same high-quality service, which the talking Basques have no right to. But to have a job in the administration, I repeat, is not a right. He'll get the job if he has the best training for it and that's it. The citizen is the first person here, and the citizen chooses what language he likes. That's his right, and as you know, rights don't negotiate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u106	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Garrido, probably the simplest, and by procedural economy, it would have been that we would all have referred ourselves or referred you to the sitting paper so that you would know the position of our group, in particular, and knew that the position of the Socialist Party has not changed with regard to what you presented almost three years ago. I could even have bothered to put a parliamentary question to the Councillor, who with great pleasure, I have no doubt, would have brought it up to date on the progress and the situation with regard to the initiative that has brought us here today. He has done a "copy and paste", practically, of what they presented a few years ago and has justified it to us with which you have seen yourselves little less than forced to re-present it. The conclusion I have come to is that you have come a long way so that that lady who sits right behind you will not win the battle and enter into a debate that you especially like. And in that fight, they have decided to be the first to present this initiative, also showing what their real priorities are. I understand that Basque society does not have such a debate as a priority. It has far more serious, far more serious and far more urgent things to attend to and to which we must give a solution, given the situation we have. Beraz, you have Euskadik daukan lehentasun bat. Socialist Basques in every respect, I say, are favorable to the normalization of Euska. We're on the side of fulfilling the 1982 bill, which was agreed for Euskar's normalization. And here, in this legislature, we can only say this by two groups: We were the only two teams that support the government in 1982 who participated in that law. In this law we worked a great deal, and in every step that has been taken for normalization we have been socialists of every kind. We are favorable to the right of the Euscal society to the maintenance of its existence, but still more to the conformity of social rights and legal rights. Of course, we Socialists defend the freedom of language. And its meaning is very transparent: Let each speaker decide which language he wants to speak. No citizen can deny the liberty of acting in the language he wishes to do, but the liberty of playing the eudo in the euco en Castellano, señora Garrido; and no citizen can impose on any one what language he ought to do, whether he be a euccan or a young man. There can be no necessity here to use a language in the language of relations between private subjects. The relationship between private and public subject is another matter. The lyrical rights cannot be regarded as absolute in a society which we call manifold and open. It seems to us that it is the duty of institutions to preserve and preserve the rights of language, and to promote the use of support. That's the main goal. And we have to put all our forces into it. I used to say, "To agree with the rights," when my speech was about to begin. We must combine the rights with the greatest efficiency of the use of public resources, but also with the difference of choice. All citizens must be allowed to act in public. Hence, we believe that it is essential to adapt language productions to the changing social and social reality of each of the Basque regions. That's why, for years, we've been defending mixed perfils. And that's why we introduced it, and that's why we've agreed, not now, but in the agreement that we held on to the law that we've passed, that we have to submit to it. And for what? Well, it's quite clear. Well, because we saw it so clearly. On the one hand, I was speaking at first of these rights of language in order to support them, and on the other, to assure them, that in the language which he chooses, he will receive it when he goes to any public service. But this must be done rationally and solved by repairing the dysfunctions which might occur in the execution of the language requirements which have been established. Maybe we don't have any dysfunctions and there's nothing to change. Hence, in the law passed, we proposed that the government is the revision of the session of the session at the irascibles of the session of the session of the Fourteenth Administration from the first minute to the first, without foreseeing it, against what some of them wished to think, and to review it again, as I said, quite calmly, but without making up my mind whether these demands are excessive or minimum. Let us consider what sort of persecutions we have, what employments we have, and according to which we must decide what manner of adaptation or non-determination we must make. Government, as I said, is. And in a few minutes, I think, there's M. d'Arkot and he'll have more information to discuss, maybe a few months from here, the results of the work they're doing, we'll have them on the table to see, see, see, and make their proposals for each one. You speak, Mrs Garrido, of the "principle of equality", and the truth is that, going to an absolutely pure principle of equality, we would not have to put any kind of requirement in order for any citizen to be able to present himself to any position of the public administration. That would be a true principle of equality. But I understand that that would be neither efficient nor appropriate to the needs that each public job would have to have. That would not guarantee a principle of equality, precisely and curiously. I think they should not confuse debates, and here they are confusing debates: they are introducing an element, as is the element of the Basque, to seek a confrontation that should not exist. You said: "His position in the government doesn't do him any good." Well, what doesn't do any favors is bring this thing nice and good, just like you've done today. There is no injustice here. Injustice would be to act in a manner not in accordance with the law, and I do not believe that the Government is acting in a manner not in accordance with the law. There is a Basque Act, a Public Service Act, there are lawyers and there are legal services to ensure that the action of the Government is in accordance with that Act. And that's what has been done all these years, since 1982 that we have that law. He was talking about the amendment that we have signed by the Basque Socialists and the Basque nationalists, which is also very similar to the one that we tabled when he first presented his proposal in the last parliamentary term, among other things because we continue to work on what I have explained to him. And he was talking about "virage." He already spoke of "the turn of the Socialist Party" in 2016. If it looks like he shot his speech! But it gives me the feeling that those spins that you attribute to us are making her dizzy. We are not making any turns; we at the time made a proposal – indeed, in an election campaign – that we then agreed between the two parties that support the Government, that resulted in an agreement, that that agreement has been re-edited, and that we are still in the same line. We have not changed our opinion on this at all. And of course at the time we demand revision, of course we demand it. Why are we going to demand it again if it's already being done? What do we want, to keep going around something that doesn't have any more going around? It seems rather absurd to me and, for my part, I think it would be a waste of time. It is therefore clear that what we are asking for at the moment is being done, and that this work on the part of the Government is being done with a criterion of seriousness, of absolute objectivity, which will have its results, and that, when we have those results, I believe that then it will be time to debate, but, as long as we do not, I believe that making judgments without knowing what that work is going to bring about is an absurd exercise that only takes us to waste time and to discuss issues that, as I said at the beginning, are at all in the interest of Basque citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u107	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u108	ma'am: Thank you, Mr. President. President... Gibraltar, the President is not here, the chairman of the departments, the members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, all good noon, and especially to Monsieur Zupiria the chief physician and Madame Garamount. Especially, I want to welcome you, and I wish you the best in this career. And now, to the point of the subject, I must say, "The last is one of our official Autonomical languages, and one of the principal personalitys." This is the patrimony of all the Basques. Therefore the attitudes which desire to use language as faction ought to be neglected, for they do no service in a multitude of plural societies." Well, with all this, Mrs Garrido quite agree, but that's not what I'm saying, it's the beginning of your initiative. Besides, our legislation says that the State of Guernica is now a yearly celebrated by you. The problem is, your initiative is no longer to be taken. Our disagreement with you is absolute. You make an interesting, evil interpretation of the Euskarians, and, in our opinion, it wouldn't be bad if you thought of your attitude to the Basques. Its approach is "or the best professionals or those who know Basque", "or one or the other", "or one or the other". Yeah. As has been said in previous initiatives, this is a classic and is like El Almendro or Christmas or Easter movies. No, you don't have to choose between one thing and another – surprised!, Mrs. Garrido – they are compatible and complementary. A complete formation... The most complete candidate will be chosen or will have more options of access to the public service, and among that is also the knowledge of the Basque language, in addition to other knowledge that he may have, academic knowledge or in other languages, but without forgetting that the Basque language is the co-official language of our country. And that is why the Basque public authorities must guarantee or ensure that they are implemented, because language rights can be real and effective. And just as gender equality is ensured, a democratic government cannot be allowed not to ensure the equality of two co-official languages because, in addition, there are linguistic rights, among which can highlight the right of Basque citizenship to relate to the public authorities, to the Basque public sector, in the language they choose. But the culmination of his initiative is when they say that his assessment, the euskera assessment, is "unfair because citizenship deserves the best services." This statement, Mrs. Garrido, is terrible, there is no place to take it. I mean, the service that can be given in Basque is worse service? Is the professional who can give the service in Basque the worst professional? The doctor, the ertzaina, the teacher, are they worse professionals? You say it doesn't go against the euskera, but the truth is they hide very well. Euskara jakiteak zerbitzuen kalyta jaisten du? Exactly dubious hori? Please, I would also beg you – just like the previous speakers – to stop throwing at the Basque and stop throwing at people who know or who have made an effort to accredit linguistic profiles. Heinera, enplegu publikora iristeko euskararen ezagutzaren balorazioa "diskriminatzailea" eta "neurrigabea" of the diazue. Bath ez from the horrella. You say it discriminates. What discriminates is that you discriminate against Basque, discriminate against professionals, as I have said, who have made an effort to accredit these linguistic profiles to complete their training, to be more complete candidates, especially for the benefit of the administration or the organization to which they come, but especially for the benefit of the citizenship to which they serve. And, of course, they also discriminate against the linguistic rights of a very important part of this country, by the way, linguistic rights that have constitutional protection. You say that "constitutional defence", "the right of equality", but it is that linguistic rights are also protected by your Constitution. They say that "it is a disproportionate demand of the Basque in relation to other merits". And that is not the case, it is in accordance with the legality, the legality of which we have acquired in this Parliament, including the aforementioned Law 10/82. Moreover, we understand that this demand is adequate and proportionate, but it is proportionate to the society that this public sector serves, because it is that Basque society evolves, and the tendency is to be more bilingual, to be more and more Basque. And it has nothing to do with the fixed photo that can be done 40 or 20 years ago. In that period there has been a process of normalization, which has been gradual, moderate and proportional, not at all aggressive, and can be said to have been successful. And you would also do well to evolve with society. They'd probably be better off. We have told you as active and passive on many occasions – companions, companions, counselors, counselors... – but you are wrong to err, you bring back the initiative to see if there is luck and shut up that message. That manipulation falls to a certain audience, and every start of the legislature here we are on the same initiative. And the curious thing is that in the first full of the start of the legislature you come with this initiative. Is that your priority? With which it is falling, at this time of crisis, is its priority to attack the Basque woman? He says he doesn't attack the Basque, so I totally disagree. Your priority is to attack professionals who can accredit a language profile? I understand that at this moment you have a certain political battle, that you have a complex regarding the new group that has entered the House and that you are fighting to see who is the most authentic, but what is not admissible is that in that fight there is always the Basque through and try to discredit the Basque. You talk about the OPEs of... He likes to talk about the OPEs in Osakidetza. Well, in the OPEs of Osakidetza the Basque is a merit. First we must overcome the opposition phase, as you know, and once passed, those who approve the examination, if they approve it, then they will move on to the competitive phase, in which it can be valued as merit. And, in particular, you say, "it's worth more." Well, I have drawn some merit bases from the category of doctors of the last OPE of Osakidetza, in which professional experience is valued at 60 points; training, teaching and research, among which are the masters, 20 points, and the Basque, the PL2, 18 points, and the PL1, nine. Well, I don't know, it doesn't coincide at all with what you say. Someone could also say that rating the experience at 60 points is unfair, the new access can also say that rating 60 points is unfair, but, well, they are bases, they are what has also been agreed with the union party. Don't forget that too, the trade union side, the representatives of the workers. Well, also in Osakidetza, that you focus... I understand that this initiative is general, it is of the whole public service, but, well, you focus a lot on Osakidetza. And a very important part of the quality of care is also the face-to-face attention to citizenship, direct communication, and that communication must also be precise, but also clear and close. Patients and patients have the right to choose the language in which they want to relate. Therefore, you should feel comfortable and more at such an important time in your lives, or delicate moments, as when you go to some kind of health care. And as for the correction of EH Collectation, we don't think it's right. Well, I discussed it with Mrs. Ubera. We think it's going to the opposite end and now it's not the time. We share our goal, but not our deadlines. You say, "for 2021," that is to say, that in three or four months, all the people who enter the Basque Administration must be eloquent. And we think it's not time. That's not the time. Society doesn't move that rhythm. Then we think it's going to have to be lines or meanings, as the Aziez said, on that line of decree that's going to be made by the Basque Mitch, we'll have to see them in the decree of the language scenes. Well, I guess the RedMork will be generous and we'll all be able to join together. That's why we're only going to protect our correction. For, as I have said, we are going to a society that is more and more eloquent, where our public sector cannot remain behind. And you don't have to choose between the best professionals or the best professionals. They're compatible, and they're supplementary. But be careful, Mrs Garrido, see if we're contempting professionals for a party interest to try to deprestiate the nerve. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u110	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I must tell you that the non-law proposal presented today by the People's Party and Citizens for us, in general, is good news, good news because it shows that I am not alone in the self-defence of our language, the language common to all Basques, the true language of the Basque People, which is Spanish. However, members of the People's and Citizens' Group, it is true that I am somewhat disappointed by the way in which they have put forward this proposal. It is not necessary to be an expert researcher to see that this is an initiative based on it presented three years ago, in 2017. Are you making a defense of Spanish or a defense to the desperate of your party in front of ours, as the representative of the PSE said very well? We are here to defend justice and equal opportunities throughout the Spanish nation and to defend the undeniable fact that Spanish is spoken in this land and that thanks to Spanish we are today the vanguard of Spain. You remind me, gentlemen of the PP-Citizens, of those small football teams that when they go to play against Barça or Madrid, they go out to the defeated playground. And that is how you stand before this House: defeated. And it is seen in this poor defense of Spanish that we are contemplating today. Spain deserves a courageous defense, because it is not a question of saying with a small mouth, "we have to protect the Spanish". It's about saying it loud and clear. We live in a process of persecution of any hint of Spanishness. The euskera has become an excuse to place yours; the euskera, for the PNV and Bildu, is imposition, is discrimination. We are also faced with discrimination which is absolutely harmful to Basque society. I'll give you an example of total topicality. We suffer a notable shortage of health personnel, despite the fact that we pay the highest wages in Spain. You want to know why? It's the Euskera. His psychopathic obsession with euskera expels high-level professionals, who see themselves as none, by not speaking a language that is absolutely irrelevant to the performance of their jobs. In any case, do not ask me, I invite all Basques to ask the healthcare staff, to see what they think about their ethnolinguistic policy. But it is that the nationalists, critical and concerned about minorities, except when it comes to them, do not want to realize that in Álava no one or very few people speak Basque. They respect the Alavesa way of life, which is who I am representing in this House today. They respect our mother tongue, which is Spanish, a language whose presence in the Basque Country is not justified by migration from the rest of Spain, from our grandparents. I remind you that it is precisely in Álava that we find the oldest remains of the Castilian. They date back to the ninth century, two centuries before the Rioja relics. It can be said that Álava is the cradle of Spanish. Stop teaching, Mr. Euskaldunes, and start studying the history of my land, which is the history of Alava. I'll tell you one thing, too. Do you really believe, gentlemen of this House, that one born in Gernika with Basque as a mother tongue has the same educational options and educational opportunities as one born in Laguardia whose mother tongue is Spanish or Spanish? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u111	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together represent the Podemos team. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u112	Good afternoon. At my house, they say that roots don't pick, wings pick. And this phrase here, at the moment, is useful to me that I'm the first time in this tribe to talk about it and to defend the attitude of Podemos with PP. I am Isa, with Leon's roots, but with the wings of eusal. Twenty years ago, I moved here from Leon, and I've been a local official 13 years ago. I work in front of people. Like most employees in the administration, it's time for me to work with official languages. I am inclined to refer to the language in which they are most well felt by the people who are present to me. And I'm proud of that. I've learned the Basques and I'm learning to sing. Euskara has helped me know escal culture as a whole and has been indispensable in the field of work as well as in the personal domain. I, being a Léon, am very proud of my daughter being eucalyptus and feeling euphora. And the theme that has brought us here, the one introduced by Poppsa, the one with which I have lived within, the administration must acquire a relation of these people to their language, to feel the people, and to use the language they please. For example, when we go to the doctor, or to a library, or to a court, or to a public office, the Administration ought to protect it, either to rhyme or to resist, either to youth or to resist, to communicate in languages where one feels comfortable. And in order to do this, the officials (to the magistrates, the teachers, the administrators, the concierges... ) we must help them to control the eucalyptus. I am not particularly skilled in languages, and have been able to learn to keep myself within my work-table, and outside the work-hours, both in the eucalyptics, in the schools, and in the eucalytes. All these, this tribe, my gratitude. All the money and effort I invested in this process has been useful to me and to the people who are connected with me. To-day, I am a member of the legislature, and it is my sense of feeling, and for many of the people, that what PP proposes is not new, that they extract it from all laws, repeat it, and that it is beyond our society. Como di Dien misjas: Pass the leopard. Unfortunately, this proves that they do not yet understand in what situation the Basques live, or, like me, the new Basques, are, according to all the experts, the state of the language of euphora. Nor is the strength which ought to be invested in helping the workmen to resist, or to resist. We have to put our efforts there. The use of the eucalyptus in political games is as disturbing as the popular party. On the one hand, they say that the euphorium is the inheritance of all, and that, on the other hand, they take away the strength of the Basque Sea. It's a contradiction. According to the saying of the great orator Kollo Michelena, "The eunuch is too weak to take it as a weapon." I invite you to make that reflection. The knowledge and use of the euphoria, considered by the Socillistic polla, go up upwards, but not so much as we would have liked. To encourage this is indispensable to strengthen the language policy. We're just trying to learn how to support our program. We defend freeness from the beginning, and have introduced different undertakings in this legislature to guarantee freedom. We defend ourselves also that language reasons must be adapted to the socilinistic reality of today. The purpose is, whether administration workers or users feel that their language rights are protected and respected. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unitida we consider Basque as a heritage and fundamental part of Basque culture; we consider its free expression as a right and also as an opportunity, an opportunity to create an inclusive community, an opportunity to promote social change. We understand that everyone has the right to communicate, relate and be served in the Administration in either of the two official languages. We are clear that we do not want linguistic policies that exclude a part of the citizenry and, therefore, we will promote concrete economic measures so that everyone who wants can know and learn the official languages and have the opportunity to do so without imposition or conditioning. You say it doesn't feel right for you to pay more for it than for other preparations. Is it not a Basque preparation? Don't you think training is strict for a person's second administration profile or for C1 looking at professional activity? I mean to ask him to check out the eloquent ability, isn't that training? From the present state, it is clear that the language developed by the Government has not been sufficient for the normalization of the support, it is evident that language policy has not fulfilled its goals. Society demands it aloud, and we are to change. We, as we have said, are in favour of a revision of the language profiles that is in line with the socio-linguistic reality, but also with the communication skills that the posts require. The aim is to make the users of the Administration feel served in Basque with guarantees, while the workers can, we can develop our language skills with a policy that accompanies it and with the necessary means to promote the professional career. Well, when all this has been explained, we, of course, vote against the American Party's proposition, and we would be grateful to the Poptular Party never to use it again in its political and identical battles, nor to have any political use in the neighbourhood of the Euscan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Passing the answer turn, representative of Basque Populara-Ciudadans. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u114	Thank you. Well, it sounds like here, when you hear a few speeches, it's just the legacy of the nationalists, isn't it? And what I want with this proposal is to be fair. And especially if we look at the results of the great political followed by RedMork. Yes, we're in a classy town, we have two official languages. And the Administration is eloquent, yes, Mrs. Aguirre, yes, Mrs. Larauri, yes, Mrs. González, yes, Mr. Adezza. The administration is eloquent, but that doesn't mean that all the officials and staffs who are in it should know about it. It's different! Zerbitzu published onenak, Agirre andrea, professional onenak. Eta professional asko, many good professionals have had to go, unfortunately, from this autonomous community; even others have not been able to come in a scenario of deficit, for example, of health personnel, simply not to believe a certain level of Basque or not to know Basque. I know them. I don't know if you, in the scenario in which you move, can know these things, because you said you don't consider it a concern of Basque citizenship. Just like on the stage where you move, no, but here, in Vitoria, it is a concern of Basque citizenship. And look, Mr Andueza said it and Mrs Larrauri said it, which is not a topical issue. Look, at a time of economic crisis when people are having a really bad time, there are a lot of people, and a lot of our fellow citizens who are hoping for the next public job offers. Therefore, I would ask you not to be the ones to play and to be the ones to undervalue an absolutely timely initiative, because many Basque citizens look with expectations to be able to access a public job and even present themselves at a public call. And those expectations can be frustrated, clearly, by not knowing Basque or not believing a certain level. And if not, tell all these professionals, in the health field it is very palpable, and if you know a little bit about the medium you can know, that in the last year of training of the MIR, how many health professionals have to dedicate themselves to going to a Basquetegi to a certain profile of Basque, that PL2 that gives 18 points Mrs Larrauri, do not tell me the 60 points of experience or the 20 points of training, because there is no one who reaches 20 points of training, especially if they have to devote themselves to going to a Basquetegi when they finish their studies or when they are temporarily providing services to learn Basque to a certain profile. Look, the pity of all this, and it is that..., Kulturaren salilburua (...), is that the language policy itself of the Basque Government has not yielded results. You are the first to put on the table that regret that after all the efforts, and economics, that have been made in learning Basque, then you do not talk. It is that then we do not speak correlatively to the efforts and the level of the people who know Basque. You know, but you don't talk. Ask yourself why. I have met a lot of people I have met in the Basquetegi, I have addressed them in Basque after leaving the Basquetegi after years, and it is very sad for those who want and love the Basque and have, moreover, the luck of knowing the two official languages, but it has the possibility of choosing when it goes to the Public Administration, but here there are many citizens who can't choose to access or can't desire to access a public job because, simply, the Basque is demanded excessively in relation to other merits, and, as I said, it is very sad to meet a person you have coincided with learning Basque and you go to her in Basque after a few years and she says, "No, speak to me in Spanish." "You're in? Euskaltegian bath egon zinen nirekin". "No, I went to the Euskaltegi to get the title out of me and, once I believed the profile, I put it in the drawer." Think! That is the linguistic policy that you have followed over all these years, that there are people who will simply learn Basque to believe a certain level of Basque, to be able to have a public job. And that's sad, that's very sad. Mr. Andueza, look, I don't know if I'm wasting my time. I think the one who wasted time was the Socialist Party when he made that video. I don't know if they wanted to be original. He wasted time and money because in the end they made a video that at the first change you gave a turn and completely changed speech. Look, the initiative that we are voting on today, which I also introduced in the last parliamentary term, is the same as the previous parliamentary term. You voted yes with the People's Party and UPyD. The same, Mr. Andueza. You'll tell me where the change is. That they share a few armchairs in the Basque Government with the Basque Nationalist Party, is that the change? Because here the Socialist Party, of course, has abandoned its position many years ago, unfortunately for constitutionalism and for many Basque citizens who have become orphans.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u115	Love, mesad, Garrido andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u116	Well, in the end, I mean we've been consistent with our proposal. What we want is to end up with dissecting, to guarantee the value and principle of equality to the reconciliation in the following public offers. - It sounds like fun. ) Further.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u117	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. It's over. The representative of the EH Group must not speak a word. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u118	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Martínez, obviously, it was not surprising that you had so much coincidence with the People's Party, after all she says a very Spanish saying that "cat parents, Micino children". In any case, the Spanish language, of course, can be Spanish – I like to say it's Spanish – but it's no less true that the Spanish language is also Catalan and it's also Basque and it's also Galician, and it's also ballet, and it's also Valencian. Why not? Among other things, because it is contained in the Constitution, in the statutes of autonomy... Another thing is that you, within your authoritarian mindset, retrograde, even so longing The truth is that I was not at all surprised by his intervention – I was surprised by the little revival A la señora González: You agree with a lot of things, don't you? And the pattern you brought, there's a lot of Euskadin. I'm really glad. And I, personally, can say that my parents didn't know of the matter: My mother was young, my father was nafarian, but she didn't know about it. And I've always been grateful to them for studying me to the eucalyptus and doing everything in the school. And I congratulate myself on the decision they made at that moment. In many things, with your interference, I agree, I have no doubt. To Mrs. Garrido: Finally, you claimed that there have been many professionals, especially in the field of health, who have not been able to come to work in Euskadi, have not been able to access a post in the public administration or in the public services of Euskadi because of the Basque woman. Look, I can tell you that in times of need there have been very good professionals, who have come from outside of Euskadi, who have not been asked that requirement because there was a need. And here they have been providing services, of course, on an interim basis, but, well, they have met those requirements, because when there is something pressing and when there is a need and there is an emergency situation, this Government acts. Like this Government, others have acted, but do not put that excuse as a bulwark in the defense of their positions. He said his initiative is "opportune." No, I would like to tell you that your initiative is not "opportune"; it is "opportunist", which is very different. I think we need to know how to differentiate. She is opportunistic and has been acuteed by the need to get ahead – as I said earlier – of the lady who occupies the seat that is right behind you. I would like to be told by you, on the basis of what you have shown us here, to so many professionals in the public administration or in the public services we have in Euskadi that they are worse professionals for knowing Basque. Because you have come to say that, you have come to tell them that your merit or your main merit to be in the public administration, to perform your functions as officials, as health professionals, as teachers, is to know Basque. And that's not true. Euskadi has great professionals who have accessed his job on merit, because they have come to an opposition and because they have met the requirements. That we can review those requirements, okay, but you don't go ahead with what can be done with the work being done from the department headed by Councilman Zupiria. Therefore, I would ask you to evolve, as we have evolved others. You say, "Because I don't know where the change is, you signed with us and UPyD an initiative that said the same thing this says." Of course, but circumstances have changed. It's just that you're talking to me about doing at least two legislatures. Evolution! Evolution! Of course they've changed! We, among other things, are in the government; we have signed an agreement with these gentlemen, which established, already in the last legislature, that these profiles would be reviewed. And that's what you're doing. How am I going to sign an initiative that does not correspond to the reality that we are living today? Mrs Garrido, I have you for an advanced person, with an open mind, and I would also ask you to have a slightly more open look on these issues and above all evolve from what you have been presenting since two legislatures to the present, because it is truly very different, for luck, among other things, from Basque citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u119	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u120	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Well, Mrs. Martinez, your position is no surprise. We know that you do not like the current legality, that you long for past times in which precisely freedom was not the main characteristic, that freedom that you now want, you intend to claim. And, of course, not as far as the Basque is concerned. One more thing: I am Arabic. Maybe we live in another Araba or I don't know. And, well, I don't have any more to say to you. Well, Mrs. Garrido, well, let's see, you're wrong to be wrong. The process of linguistic normalization has been quiet, successful, there has been no riot on the street. He says the Euskadi professionals are leaving, they're leaving. Well, let's see, mobility is in every way, isn't it? From Madrid they also leave professionals and I don't think it's because of the Basque. Mrs. Ayuso had promised... We're looking at management... Another thing they do: mix the COVID crisis with politics, ideologize the COVID crisis. He says there's a lack of professionals and they're leaving. The guilt seems to be on the euskera, too. For in Madrid, Mrs Ayuso we have seen that it is precisely not the example of management, of good management, in the crisis of the COVID, promised professionals, in particular doctors, trackers, because it has not succeeded. He didn't make it. And I don't think it's about the Basque, is it? I don't know, it's just that the blame for everything in this country is euskera, euskera and other typical things. But, man, a little bit of seriousness and rigor. He then says that people take profiles and put them in a drawer. Well, let's see, the fact is that in Basque public administrations, compulsoryness is overcome, that is, it is overcome, there are a lot more people with a profile than they should initially have. So... And then, I don't know if you are also proposing that then as they don't use it, because then it is also required, as well as accrediting it, to use it in their internal work. Or what? I don't know. It's just, I don't know, he says it's not used later. But, then, that we have to believe it and also force... I don't know. I just don't... That comment the truth that I didn't... And it's wrong to miss again with discrimination, disproportion... Well, as I said before, your discrimination and disproportion towards candidates who can be more complete because they also have Basque. And besides... In short, this is a speech, therefore, lapse, rancio, of the Spanish right that you... Look, Mrs. Garrido, I have no doubt about you. You would do well to better understand this society and reconsider your position with the Basque. And you're worse a parliamentarian for knowing Basque? Are you a parliamentarian just because you know Basque? I understand you don't. Man, don't discredit the euskera and those we have, as you say, the luck of knowing it and being able to use it. And, after all, for some people, they'd say to the Basque by a prayer and then to the next. And so, in front of some hate and ghosts, and in front of other people's fancies, we stand in centrality. And this is the reality of the Basque People. And I'm going to mention the words of the bad news from the Gina Mountains, our teammate of ours, who said in 2016. And he said: "Tell lies a thousand times. Say it literally. They're going to see it come true in their mouths." That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Myst. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u122	I want to answer to Mr. Andueza. I don't think you're well documented. If you are documented, you will see that we do not rule in Andalusia; we are in opposition precisely because we never go to the heat of power as you do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u123	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The United States of Podemos will not speak together. Thank you. End of discussion, we're going to vote for Euscala Populara-Ciudadnos' original text. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the 7; the contrary, 67; Abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u124	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 20; contraries, 47; abstainments 7.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u125	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And finally, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of the Basque Socialists as a whole correction of the teams. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 47; the contrary, 27; the abstainations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-09-24.u126	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Before I finish, I also wish my greeting and my best wishes to Mrs. Jone Wide. I just feel like this whole meeting is over. The meeting ended at fourteen o'clock in the afternoon.
