ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Today, in honor of Santi Brouard, we will begin with a minute's silence. So stand up. [[One minute's silence]] Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I can tell you that 32 lords and ladies have taken the vote, and that the sixth point is left for another. First point in theme list: "The understanding of the board of impenetrabilitys made on the compatibility condition of the American candidates at the Basque Station in the Central Administration Council. The controversy and final deliberation of the Constitution, and the design of the members of that council, may be so. Do any of the members of the board want to speak or contradict the judgment? Does a parlamentary group want to speak against it or against it? That's all we're going to vote for. We're gonna vote for the union committee's resolution. So... [[Berber]] [[Pause]] Yeah, he's out. It's true. Well, I'm going to ring the bell again, just in case. [[Pause]] Well, as I said, we'll vote for the resolution of the union committee. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 72; the contrary is 1. Absence, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u1	So the judgment has been accepted. We're going to open a time shift for parlamental groups, following the order of 234.6 articles in the Chamber Ruler. Do any of the teams want to talk? Well, next up, we have to vote for members of the corporate Administration Council at the Basque Radio Station. There are two listings of candidates agreed on by parlament groups. And when there is a compact, it is proposed that the appointments should be made with affirmations. Thus, after having obtained the two-thirds which the law demands, the members of the local Administration Council are appointed by the Euscal radio station, the following lords and ladies: Allende Arias, Manuel; Gallastegui Oyarzábal, Miren; Garcia Ortega, Pazis; Gutiérrez Paz, Arantza; Iturrate Ibarra, Iñigo; Larrea Larrondo, Andeka; Lasa Ceberio, Imanol; Lopez Garcia, Jose Luis; Mendizabal Mendizabal, Garbiñe; Merodio Urbaneja, Iker; Molina Pérez, Rakel; Munarriz Olloqui, Fermín; Torres Lavid, Oscar; Urruzuno Urresti, Unai; Zubizarreta Elgezabal, Saioa. Horiek will say so many parliamentarians and aurkeztutako altaagaiak. Candidates introduced by organizations and associations: Arejitata Oñartare, Adolfo, Campalus Juaristi, Juan Bautist; Urilar Galorata, Nagore, and Openola, José Ignacio. Second point on the subject list: "H Collect the bill of law made by the parliamentary group to ensure the right to know the rest of it. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we're going to argue. There's a side shift and a counter shift. Who wants to be on the side shift, besides the EH Collect Group? Together, Podemos-IUk. Anything else? No? So we'll start with our side shifts. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. I think all that matters to the Basque is very emotional for all of us in one sense or the other. Therefore, to-day I would like to make a rational exercise, in order to maintain the right to know how to support it, to exercise it in this legal proposition, in order to make it as balanced as possible. In the first place, I shall begin at the top, and turn to the principal end of this legal proposition-that is to say, the right to know how to support it. For this law-propositure is not only a guarantee of the fact that we all know how to resist it, but also of the contrary. I mean, thanks to this law, whether you know how to resist or not, it will become a personal decision. Whoever does not wish to know how to support what we propose will not know, because he has chosen it, for reasons of which I shall not enter, but it will never be because the institutions or administration has not given him a chance. Therefore the right of those, who would not know how to make use of our proposition of the law, will be confirmed first and foremost. They'll never be able to say that they're dissected, because they'll have the right to know about it like the others. It will be a chance and a decision of the individual whether he knows about it or not. In like manner, every one who desires to know to be at rest with our bill of law will be justified in the law of the state and of the Basque law, because it is not at the present time secure. He's not guaranteed for many reasons. In the first place, because the education system itself does not guarantee that all the students will know well when they have finished their necessary education. On the other hand, the euphorion of grown men is not at present an universal right, because money is still to be paid to learn it. It is true that different administrations contribute to money, but that is to say, aids, and all are neither homogeneous nor efficient. They are in accordance with the townships; it is not the same to live in Sestano, either in cycliles or Ladius. So neither does the citizens. There is also a difference, whether the eucalyptus be learned in a Basque, or in an official school of language. With our legal proposition, universal will be the right to know eucalyptus, and, of course, the free will must be free. There will be enough conditions to know how to support it, to rely on all the citizens, on choice and efficient mode. Indeed, every individual must have an engagement to take advantage of what is offered to him, and to reach his own level. That must be an individual commitment. On the other hand, a collective commitment is responsible for the right to know the Basque Autonomy as well as the general Administration of Erdigo. Thus we receive the title of the court, and therefore no one can be disseminated for his residence, nor for any other reason. And now the question is: What is it to know how to support it? If we consider the scope of European reference, it may be said that we possess a language, or that we enjoy a right of language when we get to the level of C1. That's the European reference. This, then, being considered as the basis of our legislation, in our first title, we determine what concerns the system of education. Therefore, when DBH finishes, all students have to have a grade of B2 in both official languages, that is, lower than C1. In other words, they must be able to communicate well with eucalyptic and youthful in order to acquire their degree. Those students who are late in education system will receive all necessary help, in a custom manner, until they have the necessary powers of communication. The second titles, however, are in use of the euphoria of the grown-ups. An adult person will be over 16 years old, and therefore all the citizens who are above 16 will be free to study the euca till they have acquired the science of C1, if they learn it in public or homologised Basques, or in the Official Language College. In this second title also there is another important article: that the persons who came here, the strangers, and the refugees, have a right to learn both official languages. In order to do this, the necessary measures will be taken. Yeah, they can learn free too. To conclude, the workers of the general administration, or of the local Administration, have a right to know the rest, but the public administration will offer all the necessary resources, whatever may be their condition of employment, to learn, learn, and secure the right to use them. This, in short, is our proposition of law. It was actually almost the same in the midst of the previous legislation, two years ago. It was a pleasure then to give you a favourable opinion, and to vote for parties that protect the government-that's the occasion for the agreement. A couple of years later, a pandemy and a few elections, it's just a change of mind and it's given the opposite criteria. Now to whoever the Ercore had agreed, Garcia refused. For this reason it is hard to know, for the one mentioned by the author of the government and the Strast Age of the Eucharian Government, and the other mentioned the same thing in order to refuse it. So you wouldn't know. Well, if it's true, it's been doing things in this kind of thing, during this time of time, it hasn't been quiet. But it is certain that we have had a pandemy in the matter, and consequently have gone backward in the teaching of the eucalyptus. For example, the only connection they had with the Basque school for thousands of children, and they lost in months. Even the Basques couldn't give class correctly and the boarding school had to be closed. You know, he just backed away from that shit instead of that. Instead of giving way to this proposition of law, he has set up a wall for us, at least for reasons which are not clear, or for reasons which are not understood. I hope that parties which protect the government may be explained in a rational manner, because our suspicion is that this is not another consequence of the policy of the rhodillo. We wouldn't want the rights of the Basque and People to be victims of that rodillo, because this part of the Basque Country must continue to move forward. There's no possible centrality here because rights are not negotiated. Either here or you respect rights or you don't respect them. There is no middle way. The other day, when we discussed the necessity of knowing the support of public employment, the colleague EAJ said: "you are not in the central world," that ours are fancies. And yes, I would like to give him reason. I couldn't answer him then, but today I'd like to give him reason, because ours are fantasies. Yes, it's a fantasy to know about the eucalyptus of the people we live here. Our fancy is like the movement of scholars and the kind that made eucalyptic education possible. Because there was also a fantasy about the ones who were ripe for euphoric and alphaing at night. Another fantasy: teaching quantum physics to make it eucatic. And the latest fantasy is that of those who have created Eucharium, because it is a fantasy to leap from knowledge to the eucament. We claim the right to have fantasies and dreams and to fulfill them. Because the dreams of those who lived in Santiminia brought us here, and because it is one of our dreams that we were born of it, that we might live by the cradle and die by the cradle. And if our dreams don't get into your laws, we won't change our dreams. We'll change your laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mrs. Hatch, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u4	Thank you, ma'am. Today, unfortunately, I think we're left alone in the defense of the legal fund proposed by the EH Collect. And with that we'll even lose a chance to discuss the situation and the future of the eucalyptus. It is true that the law proposed does not oppose all our affairs in the neighbourhood of the eucaia. But in the opinion of our party, it is foreseen that they should receive some principles and measures which are essential. For it is connected with the freeness of the shield, and with the possibility of being able to learn, that it receives the proclamations which we have made ourselves. Nay, in the explanation he said, the privations we have accused more than once are precisely taken notice of. On the one hand, the end of the necessary teaching in the education system does not guarantee all the students that they have the ability to act fairly well. And that's very important to us. And on the other hand, in the case of the euphoration of the grown-ups, the study of the citizens to the eucalyptus is not received as a universal right. The result is that the citizens must make an important economic investment, if they want to know the rest of the community. This proposition of the law is intended to guarantee universality and equality by entering into a law the measures given to it. This is the end of which we do not understand the negative of other groups. And we can't even agree with what you call 'Eunk'. This present proposition of law, it is true, was proposed in the previous legislation, and advanced on the subject. But he got off with a lot of corrections. Moreover, in this case he foresees other things which he does not foresee. As for the rest, the price of the matriciles in all the Basque Basques of Esquimia Elabnomy to join with the price of official language. And this also is remarkable for us, and is to be considered. There are some scholarship programs right now, but anyone who wants to go to the cradle will have to pay the first plate and then get the money. And a lot of people don't have an economic capacity to stand up to that initial payment. Besides, the value of the townships is changed from the township to the township. It can be 300, sometimes 500. That's not fair, it's not a guarantee of equality. The inability to study the Basques is not guaranteed, in this sense, by helping them, not even freeing them. Hence, what this legal proposition requires is the answer to this want of homogeneity and iniquitousness. That is to say, any human being can learn its social class or its origin in eucalyptus. Who could object to it? But with what the law receives, we find it necessary to undervalue other measures. On the one hand, to place only one price in all nations at every hour of study with the same program of learning. At the same time, our team seems to be worried that at the end of 20th year, still homologous euccanys, the private eucalypices, the double in public euccancies. On the other hand, in this line, the criteria for homologising the eroscals, and in order to ensure the worthy conditions of work for the professors. For till the web of public euphoris increases, the professors of the homologous eucalyptics care for the euphoria of the community. On the other hand, apart from the education system and the administration, there are other sites where investments ought to increase in anticipation of the plans of normalization, because in many cases they do not apply to the modern sociological reality. There is a new rule in the institutions of the Basque Autonomy public sector that regulates the normalization of the support, but in the Administration and in the public sector it has all its influence. And we believe we need also other bold measures and enterprises, which may have profound reflection and consequences in society. As a matter of fact, there ought to be a greater share of money; To aid the production of eucalogys of eucaural literature, to be able to give eucalypological productions on the Basque Television, to make the presence and use of the eucalyptus on the Internet attractive, to place, shop, industry, and other commercial speculations, a firm wager for euphora.... There are still things to do. In short, and unfortunately for the end, this legal proposition will not be solved today. This time we won't have a deep discussion about this. We hope that we have the ability to deal with the roots we have since now, and that we have the right to know how to make them real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. We'll go in reverse shift. Who wants to be a part of this opposite shift? Mists. Anyone else on the other side? So, Mrs Martínez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u6	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would actually use the explanations of vote in this section, as the rest of the parliamentary groups do, but, because of the health cord, I am obliged to use the opposite turn in order to have the time necessary to explain our position. Of course, we voted no to the proposed law of EH Bildu. To have a right is always considered an advantage, an addition that gives us the possibility of being inserted into a strong nation-state that guarantees those rights. We are often full of our mouths talking about human rights, but we forget that without a state that guarantees them, they are only wet paper. The proposed law that has brought to this Chamber EH Bildu seeks to abound in the right of the Basque population to study and understand the Basque language. A euskera sui generis, el batua. In Vox, contrary to what the diva left and the secessionists say, we have no problem with the language, rather on the contrary, we value it as one of the great milestones of Spanish culture. And we firmly believe in the need for your study at all levels. However, we cannot fall into naivety in the face of Bildu's proposal, for it is enough to read his initiative once to know that, in reality, what they seek is not to guarantee the right, but quite the contrary, to force the population. An obligation which, in addition to unconstitutionality, does not correspond to the fact of preserving a language from a linguistic or historical point of view, but to the need to build around a language what Benedict Anderson called "imaginary communities". In fact, they are carrying out an unprecedented social manipulation exercise in history and, moreover, they are doing very well, thanks to the invaluable help of the two traditional parties, both the PP and the PSOE. The PP, despite the fact that for moments the clothes are torn with certain themes, cannot ignore the reality that, for many years, it has given wings to the two nationalisms, both Catalan and Basque. For its part, the PSOE has been simple and plainly the great architect of this disguised. We could say that for them this is no problem. This is confirmed by the news that Bildu has agreed on the budgets. A party whose only objective is to overthrow the regime. Turning to the subject we are dealing with, the Bildu initiative, we must not overlook the imposition of the obligation to end the ESO with a B2 level, which is the advanced intermediate of Basque. A level that becomes a sine qua non condition for obtaining ESO. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos and PSOE, don't you realize that this obligation only wears out or, rather, especially wear out the humblest classes? It's not a fact that we've been making up since Vox. Here's the school board's report, plus Vasco. And the PISA report of all Spanish autonomies says the worst is Basque. And I say the worst thing about the difference between natives and migrants. The reason, obviously, the euskera. Compulsory education should not be a test to see who is more and better Basque. It is a phase in which our young people must account for a certain level of knowledge regarding various subjects: mathematics, geography, science... Something that, apparently, has no relevance to you. And among the issues that must be guaranteed by the administrations, I would like to highlight one, and it is precisely the compliance with article 3.1 of the Spanish Constitution: "Spanish is the official Spanish language of the State. All Spaniards have a duty to know it and the right to use it." Therefore, far from forcing our young people to accredit a B2 level to obtain the ESO, we believe that, given the reality of the current Basque education system, with a model D in clear rise and omnipresent in all educational institutions, we will work to make it compulsory for all pupils who attend compulsory education in Basque to a C2 level in Spanish in order to obtain the degree. Finally, I just want to remind you of the reality of private companies versus the world of the public. As much as you do, in private companies you don't get the level of euskera you want between, and where you get it, you only get to sink the competitiveness of these. It is enough to recall the complaints of various sectors that the demand in Basque makes it impossible to find a skilled labour force. Companies that are forced to hire people of other nationalities because the Spaniards of other provinces do not want to come to Euskadi, because they have made Euskadi and his world of work an endogamous environment unattractive for the attraction of talents. The Basques are not a homogeneous whole. Respect our diversity. They respect the plurality of the three provinces, with their similarities and differences. Above all, they respect the majority language of the Basques: Spanish, a language that opens us to a world of more than 400 million Spanish speakers and on which to build a bright future. Euskera and Spanish must not be in conflict, although we know that many of you live from it. Right to know Basque, yes. But not the imposition, which is what you intend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u7	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the answer round, the EH Group does not need to speak. Does Mrs. Hatch have to take the word? Together represent the Podemos team, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u8	In this last expression, this discussion of right and duty, I would like to remark one thing: Is there any people who don't know how to make it? And on the other hand, there are people in this country who don't know about youth? And that alone, I think, is enough for me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Does Mist mean anything to you? All right. So, if the discussion is over, we'll vote about whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 46; abstaining, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u10	So the bill was ignored. We'll go next to the vote. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u11	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselor, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Well, as we have already done in dealing with this same initiative in the previous legislature, my group has voted against the consideration of the bill. We understand that a law such as the proposal is not necessary, and more so after reading the unfavourable approach of the Government in relation to the instruments and measures that the Administration puts in the hands of citizens, i.e. with point (b) of the Government's approach. I think the initiative should have been withdrawn. The Government states in point (b) that these measures are already consolidated in the policies and programmes of the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy, as well as of other departments, which have the corresponding regulation and budgetary allocation for the proper implementation of these already implemented and other planned measures for the twelfth legislature. That is why having a debate on a bill and making a law is absolutely unnecessary. We think there are other reasons. The initiative continues to seek a permanent politicization of the Basque language, to force debates that do not exist in society and to use the language as a political argument outside of needs and reality. It also seeks to force educational realities and enhance some imbalances that should not exist to that extent today. I mean, I don't think it's necessary at any time. That is why, in the consideration, Mrs Agirre, we voted against. It is clear that it is an unnecessary regulation, I repeat, because of the number of educational, cultural, financial and grant instruments available to this community in relation to the learning and use of the Basque language. Innumerable are the opportunities and possibilities of learning this language: public aid, extensive networks of academies, Basquetegis and language schools that offer this service and an educational and university offer every day more refined and complete in relation to the proposed. The learning of euskera in adults, moreover, cannot depend on a total free, which would stop favoring other public priorities of greater importance, especially at a critical time, at a time as complicated as this one we live in. In addition, the freedom of choice of adult persons from their language or cultural training is at the discretion of such persons. And it is well known that people with economic difficulties can access aid and subsidies for their euskaldunisation. It is very possible that the population, in addition, and should be consulted, prefers other total free buses, dentists, masks or other forms of access to culture. But everything is inviable. With regard to the initiative and, above all, to the preamble, it is not true that the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country proclaims that all citizens have the right to know Basque, as stated in the first paragraph of the justification. To be rigorous, article 6 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country states that both Spanish and Basque are official languages in Euskadi and all its inhabitants have the right to know and use both languages. That makes it very clear. It is not true, as stated in the second paragraph of the justification, that article 5.1 of the Basic Law on the Standardization of the Use of Euskera confirms that "all citizens have the right to know Basque". Literally, article 5.1 of the cited legal text states: "All citizens of the Basque Country have the right to know and use both official languages orally and in writing", which is very different. And, thirdly, the third paragraph of the proposal does not require or complete what is stated, with regard to the fact that the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country, in its article 6.2, states that "Common institutions channel and regulate the measures and resources necessary to ensure knowledge of the Basque country". Article 6.2 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country states that "The common institutions of the autonomous community, taking into account the socio-linguistic diversity of the country, shall ensure the use of both languages, regulating their official character and shall arbitrate and regulate the measures and means necessary to ensure their knowledge". The wording is different. What is required to ensure is "the possibility of use, not knowledge". What will be "arbitrated and regulated to ensure knowledge" are measures and means, not economic resources. It is quite clear, Mrs Agirre, that this initiative is absolutely indispensable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u12	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u13	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all good days. In the last four years, and even in the last generations, important measures have been taken to promote the teaching of the eucalyptus. We have always been a member of this Euskal Socialists, and from now on it will be the same, in order to increase the knowledge and use of the euphora, to ensure the rights of language in the community, and in general to advance on the way to obtain the complete normalization of language in the Euscal Autonomy in Erria. The Socialist Basques have always been firm for the Basque Sea. From the Basque Act of 1982, the Basque Socialists have been on every step. And of course we're proud of that. Government agreements and government programs take measures for the normalization of the eucalyptus, strengthening the course we began during the past law. They're taking measures to doacticity. It's based on the agreement taken by the EH Collectors and Podemus during the law today. We don't think it's necessary for a law. That's why we've got the Basque Law, maybe, that's what we need to update. We propose to continue on this subject, this work and that path. The best example, such as the amount of license between C1 and C1, which has been verified for intermediates between 16 and 30 years. From now on, we'll have a chance of making more progress through our partnership, and perhaps renewing our commitment to the Basques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u14	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mr. Dayfield, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u15	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, members of the legislature. Well, I'm new in this square. But being new gives you a little freshness and an outer view, at least. And, to be honest, these things, these things about the eucalyptic, the use of them in a low voice makes me sad. It took me a while to read the previous bill of law, read the current, and see the difference between reading the goals of the legislation. A year later, with a large arrangement, a legal proposition was introduced, and today, in some respects, your interest may be placed beyond the general interest, at least in my eyes, a legal proposition, which shades can contain. It comes in or is acted. And the difference between C1 is the example: It is taken as the end of legislation, and in it it it must go its way. This one, reading it, seems to be a race, which is quicker, more remote, and more so. And, in our opinion, to play like this in long-breathable pretty things is sterile. It is obvious, and when we speak of a shorter language, when we speak of the development of a shorter language, not of victory, it is even more short of acting thus in such pretty things. But evidently to do is harder and longer than to say and more than to be. Well, then, I've been working on eucarates for 18 years, managing them, from a municipal firm, and if I've learned anything, it's just... or else we shall go about the eternal romance, going about without an outlet, in the wake of the miserable, keeping our lofties, but without remedy. If we want to develop it in sport, we'll have to predict the law of sport, and the sportsman will have to include the request in his daily life. If not, we'll be working on our side, and we won't go any further. If we can see the way freeness has made, many municipalities are now free. What do you mean by the scholarships given by HABE, which are given by the forums or by the municipal councils, and what is the development of those who are learning, what is the progress of the matriculs, I say, the first question? Must we confine ourselves to the debate of the present reconciliation, or do we think of our want of it all the time? that is, usage has never had so many euphortes as it now has. How can we make them live on euccany? That requires a challenge, and I think it's a wonderful challenge, which ought to be made together: the municipalities, the mushrooms, the various parties, the departure of political debates, and the creations of which we are to do in order that anyone who knows them should continue in the street. That's, I think, the way we're going. Because we thought it wasn't a fantasy, but because we thought it was because we'd opened the night schools because we believed it, we put the model D in education, we're pulling it off the Eucharation, and we're going to have to go ahead and carry on a lot of initiative if we want to live on. To conclude, I find it paradoxical: here I have heard more than once that, well, it seems that the only bilinguals are treated as if we were the inquisitors, the only ones who know the two languages. And those who know only one language are, it seems, the victims of a linguistic policy. So, I don't know if it's a matter of culture or it's an issue of education, but I think it's worth thinking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u16	Thank you, Mr. Underground. Third point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced together by Jon Hernandez Hidal, a member of the Podemos-IU team, concerning the question of the strike-call in public health at euscal. Discipline and final resolution. This is your call, Mr. Hernandez, to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u17	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, congressmen. The lack of personnel, the unorthodox rates of temporality, physical and emotional exhaustion, the systematic overload of work, stress, the lack of recognition, unprotectiveness, the neglect of occupational health and the lack of willingness to reconcile are some of the reasons that Osakidetza's workers and workers have worked for three general strikes in historical territory over the past few weeks. Health professionals also denounce the absence of dialogue and the lack of policy on collective bargaining which, in recent years, has characterized the leadership of Osakidetza and the Basque Government itself. We believe that, in view of the convening of this general strike that has taken place in Basque public health, it is time for the Basque Government to leave behind a decade of turning its back on the demands of the public health unions, because what is at stake, together with their working conditions, is the quality of our public health. With what happened since last March, the entire society has been aware of the high degree of responsibility and commitment exercised by the professionals of Osakidetza. We cannot admit that the demands of those who have shown such a degree of commitment to the citizenry respond to pilgrim, corporatist interests or simply encourage it because I do not know what evil political intentions of the unions. Even less so when the protest is general, because all the unions, big and small, the class unions, but also the professional unions: ELA, LAB, Workers' Commissions, UGT, ESK, SATSE and the Euskadi Medical Union, all of them. If, at such a delicate time as this, these same professionals have decided to take a stand for strikes, that is, for the last resort that workers and workers always have to defend their rights, and even more so, they have done so at a time when they and they know perfectly well that the affection for the citizenship of these strikes is greater than in any other situation, it is because they have been raising their voice and meeting with a wall in the Basque Government before their demands for them for many years. In the full control of October 30th, we asked the Health Adviser about the answer she thought it appropriate to give to the approaches and demands that have led the trade unions in Osakidetza to call the aforementioned strikes. Because we think that the Basque Government has to give an agile and powerful response to those who have been playing their lives since March for the health of the people. The counselor responded, in our opinion, practically with a summary of the government's health programme. A government program that already knew the callers of the strike when they called it. A response, therefore, disappointing for those who have been denouncing that the Basque Government's model of health is the one that is deteriorating public health in Euskadi. The Government has been making the working conditions of Basque public health personnel precarious for years. Years of open and covert cuts, years of weight loss of health resources. Professionals are not willing to remain silent as they observe the gradual degradation of public health: workers who, in recent months, have gone out into the street to say openly that they have come so far. We shouldn't be confused. It is not only the pandemic that has tired, exhausted and fed up with Osakidetza's staff, but the long decade of confrontation with a government that promotes health policies that are contrary to those that claim to support public health with their daily work. Weary workers and unions of a government to sit at negotiating tables on the basis of constant mobilizations, of a government that blatantly lies about its relationship with the unions, ensuring that it negotiates when it barely reports. A Government which, when it reaches agreements with workers' representatives, is also allowed the luxury of failing to comply with them. Without a doubt, the current health crisis has aggravated the situation. But it has been the policies of the past few years and the progressive weakening of the health system that have truly tarnished the response to the coronavirus and that have caused staff to say that they are currently doing their work under extreme conditions. We'll go in parts. Investment in public health: we propose to match the EU average and allocate the real 25% of the health budget to primary care. We are told that we spend more on health care per person than other autonomous communities. We have once said this: comparison with other realities, regardless of the wealth of each territory, hides a trap and any government knows this. The question is not just how many thousands of euros are spent on public health, because they depend on how many millions of euros a territory has, but how much this represents of the country's total wealth, of the community's GDP. And in that, of course, we are light years away from the European Union's average, clearly below. The European Commission, in its analysis report on the state of health systems in the European Union, i.e. the report analysing how they are, how health systems are in the countries of the European Union, says that the average expenditure in the Union is close to 10% and in the Spanish State one point below, close to 9%. But it also says that in Euskadi we barely exceed 5%. We're too far away. A budgetary effort needs to be made by relying on public health. But, besides, it's true, it can't be done anyway. Dedicating 25% of actual health care expenditure to primary care would avoid overburdens and overcosts in the hospital sector. Avoids the evolution and complication of pathologies. Preventive care is essential in terms of health, but also in economic terms. Dedicating the necessary public resources to primary care to reduce waiting lists and ensure quality and accessibility in medical and nursing consultations is much better than having to applaud with the ears the spectacular and propagandistic donations of machinery by magnates of the textile industry. Alongside the investment, although obviously linked to this, the staff. Osakidetza has shown that it does not have enough staff. But, above all, it has shown that it has a staff in precarious conditions, with an unexpected and unacceptable level of temporality that has been maintained and consolidated as structural, because the policy of the Basque Government has wanted to do so. The objective has to be, in our opinion, to ensure an adequate structural structure, because, at the moment, Osakidetza does not have it. It has an under-funded structural template and a possibly deorbited template in relation to the former. The consequences of this lack of personnel and the high degree of temporality in our public health system have a direct impact on both the quality of our health, that is, the health of citizens, and the quality of employment of thousands of women and men in Euskadi. The unions tell us these days of insurmountable workload on the part of the professionals. Some figures: doctors and nurses cannot devote ten minutes to each patient, and the clinicians have to attend to an average of 35 patients per day, in some periods at 45. Administrative assistants to an average of 100. These are figures prior to the pandemic. Staff workload has been reported for years. These are figures prior to the emergence of the virus, which logically exacerbates the situation even further. We also know that it is often not a substitute for professionals on breaks, holidays, etc., that waiting to be attended to has been increasing, an average of four and a half days ago, when the unions called for mobilizations in primary care on this same issue. As a result of this lack of staff and the high level of incapacity, professionals are forced to perform functions that do not correspond to them and this also has an impact on care, in addition to being a violation of their labour rights. When the pressure is great on the part of the professionals, when they get their demands to transcend public opinion, the Basque Government announces some places that, in reality, are not so, but are often recruitments. It does not negotiate with the unions how many, or how, because it only cares about the announcement of the same, which then we see that they barely serve to cover existing casualties. At the moment, with the high level of casualties produced by the COVID, all the last recruitments barely reach for that, to cover casualties. They are therefore not a solution to a problem of lack of staffing and, above all, of a lack of structural staffing and of over-temporaryness. At this point, I believe that it has already been demonstrated and that everyone knows that the places announced by the Basque Government for the period 2020-2024 do not solve the problem, which will hardly serve to cover retirements. We wonder what the Basque Government believes the staffing needs are, what structural staff the Basque Government believes should have Osakidetza, what contingent staff should have Osakidetza in the opinion of the Basque Government. We don't know, it's on the march, and this also serves to make propaganda announcements from time to time in the Teleberri. There is no more, we do not know what the Basque Government's plan is, all the unions that are going through these days by the Health Commission also lack such planning. Thirdly, we are bringing the issue of privatization into our initiative, and so we are going to call it, no matter how much it bothers the Basque Government, no matter how much they try to say that there is no privatization, no matter how much they try to say that outsourcing is not privatization. We are talking about health services and also non-health services, maintenance, dining, laundry or cleaning services, which have shown during this pandemic that they cannot be understood as something alien, as something complementary to the public health system. In our opinion, there can be no private business with public services and even less with a service such as public health, a basic and fundamental right for the people of this country. We categorically reject this model and call for the implementation of the necessary mechanisms to ensure comprehensive public health. We are also talking about net health services, or do we not spend millions of public money on patient care in private clinics? Health actions that could and should be done perfectly Osakidetza if given adequate resources. We should not, in our view, devote a euro of public money to care in private clinics, but allocate the necessary resources to ensure full care in public centres. Nor do we agree with the model of privatization of a part of health transport, of ambulances, medicalized or not. In our view, they are part of public health and there is no reason for a model for the award of services to private companies, many of which, by the way, have shown no lack of bad practice in this sector, especially in the treatment of workers. A simple example of a great model: December 31, 2019, not so much, newspaper El Correo, little suspected of being my friend, headline: "One of the ambulance companies that covers emergencies leaves the service tonight midnight. The Department of Health has contacted other companies to cover this exit and not leave the unattended emergencies in Euskadi." We assume that this is an excellent example of public-private collaboration. The private sector of ambulances lives at the expense of public money, not only in Euskadi, but also, and the operations of absorptions, mergers, purchases, etc., point to the increasing presence of large groups and the entry of international operators. They are companies and the business premium, that is so, and we cannot allow the business to premium when we are talking about a first-class public service. Whoever wants to do business looking for their customers in the private sphere, nothing or no one will prevent it, but not at the expense of the public. Finally, we urge the Basque Government to sit down and negotiate urgently with the trade unions, because it is difficult for the Basque Government to sit down and the improvements in working conditions must be started at the negotiating tables. They have had to convene another three days of general strikes this time in order to have a date for a first negotiating meeting, but, finally, it will not be this week, but the week that comes, almost as with the toughest employers in the private sphere, when a government should be more willing to be in close contact with trade unions. The least that should be demanded of the Government, after three hard days of general strike in Osakidetza and in a situation like the current one, is that the role of public health unions be taken seriously and that they feel serious about seeking agreements that respond to their demands. It cannot continue to be the focus of this Parliament to listen to the Government and to those who support it say that there is a fluid and close dialogue with the social partners to, whenever they go through the Health Committee, as yesterday, listen to them all, whatever kind of unions they are, say that the Government does not dialogue and much less negotiate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u18	Please finish, Mr. Hernandez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u19	I'm done. Someone's not telling the truth here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u20	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u21	Good morning. Well, to start with today's talk, I'd like to clear something up. In general, I don't care whether they're members of the community or have been of other parts of the country, they don't interfere with their caprices. I mean, strike isn't a pleasure. Yes, as a citizen it is not easy to go out into the streets, to move, to renounce a portion of their salary, to be constantly struggling: it's not convenient to be at confession. Nobody likes it. And they're doing that for co-workers. And that's what they're doing to make them grow up. That's what they're doing to ask for stability. That's what they're doing in the Osalans to increase their investment. That's what they're doing to put an end to the national health system, and they're doing it, even so they can negotiate the contract of work that hasn't been renewed since 2009 and hasn't been negotiated. You can't see any other options. Or is there any other choice? If the interview was on, with the government, with the Osabaz, if the negotiations were restored, do you think the Osapart workers would be out of the streets, or would be constantly in charge of the situation in the Osar? No, because the Osatists have shown that they play with care. And they've shown how they look when we need them most. And probably for you, too, it's not comfortable. I just want to think you guys aren't comfortable in this situation either, or I'm sure it's not like that. Then the question is: What are we going to do about this situation? What do we do? There is a very simple, easy, and exaggerated thing; I want you to start the conversation, get the negotiation back and move on. So the question is: Why doesn't he want to negotiate? For, as Mr. Hernandez has said, all the unions are identical to me what colours they are, they all say there are simply meetings of courtesy. And in the past years, as well as in the general table, Mr. Erkoká, and the other tables, there has been, or is, "you or you leave him." And this government has obtained something very difficult to obtain: all the unions agree, and are nine; they are not few and of different colours, and very many. That's very difficult, you know it's very difficult. So we should think about it. So where can we start? We can begin to get confidence back. And it would not be amiss to recover confidence from the agreements which have hitherto been unburied, for it is certain that the credit of this government is equally uncertain. Why? Because he hasn't fulfilled the agreements that have been made. It's not because we're telling you, because there's been some sort of agreements, points, SATSE, UGT, with others... But they say that and on the committee we've been told the agreement didn't work out. One more example: In 2009, it was the largest deal ever in the whole table. In addition to this, it was received that the new services should not be prior, and that it should end with the provisional, which was received in the decree of 2010. But it's not done. There hasn't been any other arrangement since. So, what's going on? It looks like there's a problem or there's a problem because we don't all see the same situation for Osa. What do we see in Oslo? A portion of this Chamber is seen to be the great provisionalness of the Osade. We see there's a tremendous temporary exchange that can be found with 11, 8.5 contracts a month. We see the health professionals moving to other state health systems or other health systems in Europe. First of all, we see that there are no doctors, nurses, and authorities. We see that the presenceal consultations have been reduced, and that it is almost impossible to obtain consultations. Yesterday, Araban, to pull out a badge: query on December 23rd. The Aran, in traumatology, is currently being consulted on the 21st of March. These are examples. We also see that there is a tremendous defect between the manufacturing and the officials, and that there are thousands of jobs without codes hidden. We see that more and more services have been privatized during the past few years, and we have the example of an ambulances, there's an example of washing, there's an example of electrocution, a contract of electrocution in the middle of the pandemia, that ends, it ends, it ends, it ends, it ends, it ends, it ends, it ends, it's the assignment, another company gets the job, the employees have to go out into the street, the new workers must enter it, but they don't have the form, and it's also happened in Bis turn. The men fired had to be formed new workers. But now, in Gipula, having a metal contract, there is occasion for subrogation of those workers. So we'll see how Osarides behaves, because these workers are important: They fix respirators, they keep different devices. See what happens at the moment with such a change. We can see that in the sentence, Osarides does not guarantee the safety of the workers. We see that the most feminized company in the Basque Country and in the largest Basque Country is still without a plan of equality. We can see that OPEan's Facultative fraud doesn't mean to end. And the question is: The other parts of this chamber, EAJ and PSE, what does it see? Telllerí told us everything was fine. Mr. Rico told us it wasn't all right. So, what can we do to put a solution between us all? We're clear, but we're not going anywhere with our lights, because we need measures. And we have no power to force these measures. The government says he has will. Now, if we have will, what is the matter with us in order to force these measures? We don't understand what the problem is or where the difficulties are, because we're discussing a number of proposals here. What's the problem? Who these proposals are, where they come from... I don't think we're going to do this kind of thing as it is. We're not going to get tired of being presenceal consultations that people need in time. We're not going to get tired until we're the plan for Osapart. And until the new codes that don't show up are established, at least 3,000, but they can be more, considering that they retire every year by a thousand professionals. We're not going to get tired until we have a very strong first attention, really communal attention. We're not going to get tired until we have a very strong first attention, really communal attention. We're not going to get tired of the ambulance web, clean-up, and become a public electro-oping. And besides, we'd make it all cheaper. We can look into the accounts, because accounts are very clear, how much they suppose to hire or hand it over to the public. And the question is why, then, they are released into enterprises, and are not offered directly. We've got a lot of homework right now and we're looking at Osa, and we're looking at public health. We've got a lot of challenges because we haven't been doing these homework in years, so they've been gathering us up. And he's put on these years' structure problems more clearly than that of COVID 19, and he's put us in front of the mirror. Hence it is added that the times have changed, and that the health system must adapt itself to new times, that it must adapt itself to the development of the population, which demands that we should become familiar. But if, in the first place, there is will and will, I do not wish to compromise the will of anyone, the state of collapse in Osa, we must leave the state of emergency. For that, we need measures, we need measures. And the government has a power to do so. We are all ready to throw a hand around, not to throw a hand around the neck, to throw out a hand, to kick it, to get it off. Even union workers, professional workers, and professionals, all of them. If we could open a little, if the government were to open up a little, if it were to put aside the defensive attitudes, I think we'd all win. Most of all, they'd come out for Osature, professional members of the Oscars, the quality of health and health.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Popular Group-Ciudados' representative, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. Well, I'll give you the text Ciudadans and Popular Party presented, especially in my turn. I think Podemos will improve the text described by Podemus, so we decided to introduce our text with definite proposals. Finally, we saw a deal between Podemos and EH Union. It is true that the two corrections were sufficiently equal, and they have finally come to an agreement between them. We will defend our own, and vote our own, considering also that the rest of the party, the Jeltist Party and the Social Party, have not submitted any correction. Indeed, we can agree with the initial approach of the proposal made by the Podemos group in relation to the situation of Basque public health. Obviously, we do not agree with some other positions that they may be defending from the Podemos group, and with some concrete claims, but we do understand that the objective has to be to reduce the high rates of temporality that currently exist in Osakidetza and to strengthen the current staffing to meet the existing care needs. That is why one of our points concerns this issue. We believe that the objective must be to reduce this rate of time and to strengthen the current staffing table. In the human resources planning that the counsellor explained to us in the appearance to explain the strategic lines of her department at the beginning of the legislature, we do understand that we must call a sufficient number of places to face the challenges that we have, not in the medium or long term, but in the present, because, as we all know, we have professional deficits. We are also having the opportunity to listen to the unions in the Health Commission, and all the unions agree that the number of places offered so far by the department is clearly insufficient to meet the needs we have in our health centres and in our hospital infrastructure, ultimately to meet a population and growing demand, especially in the provision of certain services such as care for chronic people. And what about the need for more resources to deal with the situation of COVID, which is clearly affecting health care and is entailing a significant burden of assistance. In that regard, we do demand that the number of places initially offered, those 4,000 jobs from future OPEs, be reviewed and that the requests that are in some way being made from collectives be taken into account and sensitive to this situation, because this number of places is clearly insufficient. On the other hand, we also believe that it is necessary to introduce measures in the management processes of the OPE to speed up its resolution. Currently, the processes of convening an OPE have been extended for a long time. And I'm going to make a letter to, obviously, refer to a chapter that marks a clearly black spot in the history of opposition in Osakidetza. It is not the only one, as we will all remember, but it is the irregularities of a public offer of employment that gave rise to resignations by officials of the Department of Health and Osakidetza. In this regard, we believe that, apart from speeding up the processes of managing future public employment offers, it is also necessary to equip a public job offer, as has been seen, with the transparency mechanisms absolutely necessary to ensure that there is no shadow of doubt that impartiality and objectivity are guaranteed in this type of public process. Since we had the opportunity to set up a working group in the past legislature specifically to analyse the processes of the public offers of employment in Osakidetza, I believe that some of those requests should be met in the future public offers of employment that are called for in Osakidetza. Yesterday, the Euskadi Medical Union also asked us not to make these massive calls for OPEs, but to make more adjusted calls and shorter processes, which allow us to meet the needs more quickly and periodically than what means organizing an OPE with a significant number of places that can be convened. This is something they have repeated on several occasions and has appeared on several occasions in that working group. We see that another important point has to be to address possible shortcomings that may exist in the temporary recruitment lists. We know that there are also problems in these types of lists and, in that sense, we do believe that the issue of temporary recruitment lists needs to be turned around. On the other hand, as the Health Adviser told us in the answer to the inquiry, one of the department's objectives – and here we do agree with what she pointed out – is to identify the places that can be difficult to cover, with the aim that they can be covered as soon as possible. In that regard, we call for a study to be carried out to identify these places and to put in place solutions. Another point – and here we do agree with one of the points that have been signed in the transaction agreement Podemos and EH Bildu – is all that has to do with the safety and security of Osakidetza's staff. Obviously, it is clear that our professionals have to have the right protective equipment. And we are also aware that, although the situation differs greatly from the initial situation regarding the protection of our professionals, the proportion of masks and PPE, it is true that there are still some deficits in some specific situations, some differences – as we were also told yesterday – between primary care and hospital care. I believe that an effort must also be made in that regard. We believe that an effort must be made by Osakidetza, and the psychosocial risk factors present in health facilities must be continuously assessed. On the other hand, we believe that we cannot abandon the specific issue of conciliation. In this regard, the measures currently in place and those that can be taken to facilitate time flexibility will need to be analysed. Finally, we will defend our proposal. We agree on certain points in the agreement they introduced, but not with others. We prefer to defend our corrections and vote ours. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u24	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. The motion put to us today by Mr Hernández is a result of the question raised on 30 October, which asked a specific question: "What measures does the department propose to take to respond to the demands that have motivated three strike days in Basque public health?". Our amendment has precisely sought to respond in a clear way, to provide a clear answer on the road map that we have marked: negotiation, positions and budget. With regard to negotiation, we believe that negotiations with public health unions must continue, with the intention of reaching an agreement which, in any case, will also have to be reflected in an improvement of the public service to citizens. With regard to the places, we are committed to convoking, throughout the legislature, 4,000 places of offer of public employment. As far as budgets are concerned, it seems clear, but we will not tire of repeating it: there is a commitment to present in this Parliament a draft budget which incorporates precisely the measures committed to strengthening our health system. So, as you see, there is a clear commitment, both to strengthening our health system and to social dialogue itself, something that the Basque Socialists think is obviously the way. Because, as it cannot be otherwise, we always bet on maintaining constant dialogue in all sectors, and the field of public health is not going to be an exception. We believe, moreover, that it is the time to search for solutions, rather than the time to search for confrontation. At its initiative, the proposing group urged the Basque Government to urgently address negotiations with public health unions. In this sense, as you may recall, since Councilwoman Sagardui presented us with the strategic lines of the department, she moved us that she had met with all the social agents representing the workers of Osakidetza. But he also told us that, from that point on, negotiations would begin at the sectoral table. I think it is important to highlight this, because it was also said at that time, and that is precisely the moment we are at today. I am not going to get lost in a debate that has been raised on some other occasion, because I believe that it is sterile and that it does not lead us anywhere. Today, too, it has been raised here again: whether the nature of the meetings held with the social representatives of the workers were merely courteous meetings or not, it seems that those who have made it public understand this, but, as far as we know, those meetings were held with concrete content and proposals. Having said that, I am not going to go too far on the subject, because, as I said, the important thing is that, in the area of dialogue, within the framework of dialogue, we are at the moment, in the context of the convening of the sectoral table, and I believe that this supports a clear commitment to that dialogue and to that negotiating framework. Frankly, we believe that, in the context of negotiations with public health unions, the objective must be to reach an agreement that, in any case, will reflect on the improvement of public service to citizens. This point is important, because, beyond the legitimate demands for work, which can obviously be raised, the objective must always be framed in this improvement of the public service to the citizenry, which I believe we will all share here. To that end the Basque Government is also committed, and of course the groups that we support the Basque Government, because it is clear that COVID-19 has strained our health system, as has been said, but I think we have to look around us. COVID-19 has been straining all health systems, all of them, including those of countries and communities that have sometimes wanted to set an example or mirror in which to look at us. This is so because of a logical question, and I have said it many times in this rostrum: the organisation, the ordinary structure of health systems was not designed for the management of a pandemic, and that has meant that from March all health systems had to put up the batteries to deal with this particular problem. Governments have taken decisions, professionals have taken decisions, and citizens have also been asked to take these measures, because they were the measures that were raised for a specific issue that was altering the substantial reality of all citizens and for which no health system is normally designed. That presents us with challenges that are also immediate: facing the pandemic using all the personal and material means we have and also being smart enough to take advantage of the experience we have accumulated in the first wave. As I was saying, we are in that, because we are at the most immediate, yes, but we are also in a general bet for strengthening and improving our health system through investment in personnel, new infrastructure, research and processes. That is why when I hear you on many occasions talking about self-congratulation I rebel, because it is not true, where we are is in self-requirement, self-requirement to perfectly dimension what are the challenges and areas of improvement, and also self-requirement to address them. On the initiative, on the second point, on the whole of the past, we have already discussed a motion in which we were talking about primary care. Therefore, I am not going to repeat the arguments we have made or the commitments we have put on the table. By the way, the issues of waiting lists, delays and accessibility to the system itself were also addressed; I do want to make that clear. But I am referring to what I said in that debate and I am going to focus on the first part of the second point of your motion, the one on the EU average equalisation in the heading for public health. Man, it's a comparative field, it's true, but the reality, Mr Hernández, and you know it, is that no autonomous community in Spain meets that criterion, and not even Spain as a whole meets it. Perhaps this is an area where we should all move forward, but the truth is that in order to know where we are going, we also need to be aware of where we are going and where we are coming from. By putting things in place, as far as where we come from, I would like to recall that we come from a budget, that of 2020, in which, without incorporating the extraordinary expenses that have had to be incurred by the VOCID-19 pandemic, a forecast of expenditure for the Department of Health of 3,942 million euros out of the 11,744 million of the total budget of the Basque Government, i.e. slightly more than 1 billion euros higher, for example, than expenditure on education. We have come from constantly growing budgets in the field of health since 2013, which is the last I have come to. We have increased from 2,933 million in 2013 to 3,942 last year, I repeat, not to mention the extraordinary expenses caused by the coronavirus. We come from budgets that have put Euskadi at the head of per capita health expenditure compared to the rest of the autonomous communities, and perhaps these data, which are objective, have something to do with the high levels of assessment that our citizens give to our public health system, even at times of management of the pandemic. That's the starting scene, not another. I think it is important to dimension: the starting scenario is nothing. Is the starting scenario an improvement? Yes, of course, everything is improveable and this is not going to be an exception. Sailburu itself, in its reply to the inquiry, indicated one of those points on which work is already under way. For example, in the area of human resources, consolidation and expansion of staffing: it was indicated that a study is being carried out to determine the percentage of eventuality that should be consolidated as a structure, something that comes to respond, by the way, to point three of the motion that you have put before us, because it is true that there is a percentage of potential staff who are carrying out activities and tasks that respond to organizational needs of a permanent and structural nature, and that needs to be corrected. They are not my words, they are those of the Sailburu, last day 30. In the field of the public offer of employment, the process of negotiating the distribution of the offer of 3,335 places corresponding to the OPE of 2018-2019 will begin. With regard to the procurement system, a willingness was announced to find ways to improve the quality of procurement and that a negotiation process would be initiated at the sectoral table. Specific measures were also discussed in connection with transfers, occupational health, conciliation and so on. In this regard, since it has not been possible to reach an agreement with you, we will maintain our amendment, an amendment which, as I say, provides a clear answer to the road map: negotiation, places and budget. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u26	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u27	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. Mr Hernandez, you were beginning the questioning that gave rise to this motion by talking about the strike called by the trade unions in Osakidetza, understanding that it had a reason to be obvious and that it had to be answered by the Basque Government. Thus, in crude, the reasoning seems impeccable, although, as in all reasoning, one must consider the premises on which it is based. Some union had already warned in January that, after a hot autumn, a burning winter would come. And that has nothing to do with a mobilization made on the line of a concrete claim, which there are also, but sometimes, and you know it better than anyone in this House, the unions, in addition to making demands of a work nature, are positioned politically. I am not going to criticise this, although normally this position has nothing to do with the mission the organisation has assigned to the unions and with what has to be taken into account when establishing negotiations. Sometimes the unions, also legitimately, position themselves politically, the same about whether to approve budgets or not – normally it is not – that about whether to break relations with the state or anything else. I insist that it is legitimate, but this requires an analysis at the time of the logical reasoning that you made in your inquiry about the response that must be given to a strike called by the unions. The three strikes that we have experienced this month in Osakidetza have, to begin with, been strange, when they took place on different dates in each territory. Although I am not going to go into assessing the rarity of them, they are, in principle, worth the same as the others. What has been possible to draw attention to, at least to me, is that being summoned by all the unions have not been answered in a massive way, not to say that they have been in a relatively small way. Although it can always be said that the minimum services were exaggerated. As much as they have been, at least in Bizkaia's last, when there have already been two other precedents to heat up the environment, the unemployment rate has been 9.7%, the nursing rate is 7.2 and the rest of the categories 9.7. This, in principle, does not speak of a successful call. Among those called are very professional and know that these are not the best times to call a strike and that the call sometimes moved in a very fine line between job demands and political action, it is likely that the call failed. Which does not prevent the government from responding to the call. And don't doubt she'll take care of you. I have already told you, this may not be the best time to force the health administration to negotiate, as political leaders, managers and workers are involved in a health management vortex that does not allow to maintain the necessary calm to address an extensive negotiation for the largest company in Euskadi. In this sense, although it is true that the sectoral table did not meet since June, because of the situation we are living in, last Monday was called another one, which did not meet because of some agenda problems, but that will be done on the 26th, to restore a normality, even if this is precarious, not because of the will of the Government, I insist, but because there is a virus in the environment that changes our plans daily. And if not, remember things as thick as the delay of the autonomic elections themselves and so many other distortions of the daily routine. All you have to do is look at this Chamber and figure it out. At the same time, the Basque Government's programme talks about: expanding the number of optional staff, resident internal nursing positions and de-bureaucratizing the work of medical and nursing staff; increasing, renewing and stabilizing the staff of Osakidetza by calling for 4,000 public places between 2020 and 2024; selection models ensuring transparency, justice and equity; reviewing the current employment relationship of Osakidetza to incorporate new professional categories and increase endowments; promoting specific training programmes for optional and nursing staff; promoting an open mobility system and a corresponding reconciliation programme for health personnel; Osakidetza Equality Plan and more. All of this is on the government agenda. The Sailburu not only explained it to us in their first appearance, but the other day reminded them of it in their interpellation. All this means that there are sufficient elements and wills to address and negotiate agreements. All that the unions knew before they made the strike, and you've remembered it before. They already knew. From there, there are other assessments in your motion that I will try to disaggregate. On the one hand, he pointed out that the Basque Government undertook that primary care should occupy 25% of the budget in each OSI, that the waiting list should not exceed 48 hours and that something more imprecise would increase the quality of primary care. I guarantee it, we'd approve it, accepted it. As to whether to devote 25, 30 or 50% to primary care, look, the truth, I confess that this issue has me a little lost, because I suppose it will depend on each OSI, on the infrastructures that operate in it, on the type of population it serves and on many other variables. So I would stick to the commitments already adopted. And not because we refuse to debate, but because we did so extensively last week with the commitments made by the government with primary care, which our group and the Basque Socialist group both suggested and were approved. Commitments to those who, by the way, you, Bildu and the People's Party abstained. Then our proposal does not seem to be so bad or so uncomfortable. And, although I answered something 15 days ago, that we meet here every Thursday, and what I will round you brunette, the theme of the percentage dedicated to health in relation to GDP, I recognize, has taken away my hours, almost my sleep. Because it is a matter that, after analyzing it first above, because it is a figure that is being said in one place or another, ended up subjugating me for the strangeness of the figures. I'll sum it up. You said that the European Commission in its health study points out that the Spanish State allocated 8.9% of GDP to health in 2017, that the European Union average for the same year was 9.8 and that in Euskadi it was 5.2. Okay? Look, after turning it around, I take the website of the Ministry of Health on health expenditure in Europe, and says that Spain spends 6.3% of GDP, away from 8.9: 1,626 euros per person. According to Statistics, a statistical publication, the expenditure per person was: in Andalusia, 1.212; Rioja, 1.477; Nafarroa, 1.651; and Euskadi, 1.801. The same publication indicates that the average percentage of expenditure in the State on GDP is 5.4, further away. Either the figures are said with great joy or each refers to something different, without contrasting it enough. It is all so Kafkian that ELA-STV ( sic ) told us the other day in the Commission that in 2010 5.3% of GDP was spent on health, and in 2020 4.8. And I thought, where does the 2020 figure come from, if we still don't know what GDP we're going to have, which is going to be much less than expected on 1 January, or the health expenditure we're going to implement, which is going to be much higher than expected on 1 January? The figures are said with such joy that no one contrasts them. In summary: if Spain spends 15,4 % of the health budget and 1,626 euros per person and Euskadi 33 and 1,800 euros per person, can you conclude with those figures that the difference between Spain and Euskadi is that the first spends 8.9% of GDP and Euskadi 5,2? Look, Euskadi, taken strictly from the 2019 GDP figures and the 2019 health budget, devoted 5.2% of GDP to the topic. And that accounted for 32% of the government's total budget. To reach, for example, 7%, which is what SATSE demanded, would mean that the budget should reach 5.8 billion, which would be 50% of the budget. Getting to 9.8, which you demand, would amount to 8,120 million, or 69% of the budget. As I told you the other day too, every time you ask for something put down a supplement of what it costs, so that we value it more simply and I'm not four days looking at all the world's data websites. And to end this numerical mess I'll give you the key: I found the document. It is not a document of the European Union, it is of the OECD, which speaks of the countries of the European Union. But on its first page it says: "Definition of Health Spending", definition of health spending. And you know what it includes? All health expenditure: the public, the private, public insurance, private insurance, all expenditure. Then, 5.2% of Euskadi's real public expenditure is not comparable to 9.8% of the Spanish State. They have created a truth, they have moved it to each other and it has remained like a karma (sic) that all repeat without having contrasted it anyone. Someone here, Mr. Hernández, is not telling the truth. In the meantime, it may be better not to be bound by incomparable comparisons with those who spend more, and let us bet on what we point out in our amendment, which, Mrs Garrido, we present. You have so much work to do that you do not give time or see all the amendments that are being tabled. Ours is no other proposal than to continue to grow, to avoid cuts in a year in which it could seem inevitable that they would be made and moved forward, to continue to move forward and grow in order to continue to have a better public health, highly valued, but always improveable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u28	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on to the line that hasn't been running, Mistto, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u29	Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen. The current health crisis has shown that Osakidetza is not one of the best health care in the world. Here, in the Basque Country, we have seen professionals, as in the rest of Spain, overwhelmed by the workload, hospital resources without sufficient means to meet the growing demands, management teams unable to predict what was coming on them, and moreover, without modesty, the workers were sent to the front line, barely protected with garbage bags and reused masks. We have lived for many years wrapped in interested dreams that have been projected by successive governments, that obsession to present the Basque as the best of the best, hiding the serious structural problems that no one can now hide. Osakidetza needs a plan, not actions at the stroke of union mobilization or partisan interests of the one who manages our government or the Basque health service system. We see how everything arises in terms of dispute: trade unions against everyone, health professionals against managers, opposition against the government. And what we need is not this, it's transparency, social pedagogy, judicious studies and a plan for the future, yes, a plan, and, of course, building alliances. This is where Vox disagrees with the initial initiative proposed by Podemos. We believe in the coexistence of two health systems: a very strong one, which in this case would be the public, and, on the other hand, a private one. Co-existence and coordination, because everything is health. The demand for health care is more than remarkable and, moreover, always increasing. And we think there's plenty of work for everyone. Not everything can be public, an example of which we have in different places in the world, nor can everything be private. And you openly defend a fully public model that we cannot support, regretting it very much. We are in favour of a study of the working and wage conditions of Osakidetza professionals. Yes, of course, to improve them, if you decide it is appropriate. Yes to strengthen our public primary care system through concrete actions, and not just empty words and good intentions. And, of course, do self-criticism to correct mistakes and move forward. But yes, too, forgive me, that public-private coexistence. As for what Mr Rico said, he spoke of self-requirement. I think it is very important and also a positive point to take into account. But I think they also forget an important "car", which is self-criticism. You know that self-criticism learns from mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u30	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the answers, Mr. Hernández, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u31	Indeed, as some of you have said, both Mr Rico and Mr Telleria, our motion, and the question I made, what I intended was to look for the answer, what will be the response of the Basque Government to the demands of the trade unions raised in that strike. Mr Tellería tells us that, although he understands it and the government is going to respond, this is not the best time to calmly approach the negotiation. They've been ten years. One of the issues they are calling for is precisely the convention regulating their working conditions, which has not been signed since 2009. The conflict we do not invent ourselves, the conflict exists, and one of the issues we defend who we are bringing this conflict to Parliament is that it is not a short-term problem, that this does not respond to what has now happened with the pandemic, which obviously exacerbates it logically. It's a structural problem. It is a model of public health problem that the Basque Government has generated in the last decade. We can discuss the necessary figures in the public health budgets. Of course, the data we provide, which are collected from trade union demands, are perfectly valid, because the comparison between the European Union, Spain and Euskadi responds to the same document. The same analysis that will have been made with the same indicators. Therefore, the comparison is valid. Another issue is that another type of data should be collected. For us, that's not a problem either. The bottom line is that all representatives of public health workers are telling us that there is a shortage of resources. When we talk about millions of euros, to me when I hear the budget of the Basque Government – when it arrives, next 18 December Mr Azpiazu will come to present it to us –... You see the number of millions of euros there and you say: small figures. But those who are working in public health and know the needs that exist, not only for their working conditions, but to provide the public health service that is needed, are saying that they lack resources. And that is the question that Mr Telleria is saying that he is going to attend to the Basque Government, but that is that we have been in a ten-year period in which these demands have not been met. It's not a short-term issue. It still seems to us that the work of the trade unions is being questioned and that, surely, behind that is the explanation of that discussion between whether or not they negotiate. And I think that you here today, Mr. Tellería, although in a gentle way, have also dropped again as if, behind certain strikes, you mentioned the statements of ELA about a hot autumn... I think yesterday we listened perfectly to the Euskadi Medical Union. I believe that the Euskadi Medical Union will not be able to blame political intentions to create hot autumns against the Basque Government. I'm sure you share that with me. And they were very clear, they perfectly explained the claims. And they match those of the rest of the unions. That is why it is important and urgent that specific issues be felt and negotiated. We were also told yesterday by the Workers' Committees that, in view of the meeting they are going to have next week, it does not seem that the issues they raise will be on the agenda either. I'm not saying it, he said it. You were there, on the commission. Moreover, I asked him, deliberately, to see if he had understood correctly, because, of course, it seems serious to me. This time it seems like it's not going to be a courtesy meeting, it's going to be to negotiate. I know collective bargaining a little in the private sphere. But if on the table there are no issues raised by one of the parties, then, of course, it is a bad matter. It seems to us that the Basque Government must take an important turn in public health policy. For us, the issue of privatization is also very important. I know it is a model that also responds to ideological approaches. And I also had the opportunity to exchange views on the first day with the Counsellor on this issue, and I know that we are not going to agree here. But I believe that the Basque Government has to respond to the trade unions, because many of the things they are putting forward are fundamental and have been unanswered for many years, and they have been telling us that they are facing a wall for many years. Trade unions that negotiate in other areas...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u33	...and agree with the government, in public health – which is a fundamental thing – we are told that they meet a wall. Not only are those unions that you consider to have a plan against the government, they are all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u34	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The Representative of the EH Group has the word, Mrs. Ubera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u35	First, I want to thank Mr. Hernandez for his will to make an agreement and the arrangement he made today. I just want to think that we're not here for oratory contests or literary contests. I would like to consider that the texts are not the most important, but the contents and commitments that are received in those texts. And I want to think that there is will too, I don't want to compromise anyone's will, though I often don't know what to think. The question is, if there is will, what is the problem of taking clear measures and precise engagements and agreeing with them. This is what we do not understand, and especially what difficulties there is to force it. If you really have an engagement, if you have a will, put your measures on it, will you? We don't ask what we say to make it strong, if you don't want to listen to us, listen to the workers, listen to the unions. It seems to me, as Mr. Hernandez said, that we have all sorts of unions and that we're seeing what they're saying on the committees, right? We need clear commitments. For if this government has commitments, what difficulty is there in obtaining those clear commitments? That's the question. Because the workers are tired and desperate and they're already angry. And this is not about the pandemia, Mr. Rico. Don't get wrong, the problem here isn't pandemy, it's already coming. And I want to think, too, that in the first wave, we have to recover this. For in this way their strength, their mind, and will fall. And why is he going down? Because they find no one by their side, Because they do not find any companions. That's because I've been abandoned, because the resources don't come, because the measurements don't come. And yet they do, when they are called to ask them to do the volunteer work. They're giving 200 out of a hundred, they're giving everything. Mr. Rico, I hope what you've just said about this, the medical department's negotiation, the sooner we can see and do it. We really hope so, because we hope we've learned something. Here it is often mentioned, in this chamber, but the consequences of it seem not to come. We use a lot of arguments here. Now, Mr. Tellegio has given us many arguments about investments and documents. Another document I told you about last week. I don't know if you looked at it, Eustate. That's crazy. I don't think you'll suspect anything about it. See the local number for the raw internal product. But yesterday Comissionnes gave us another number, and you often use that argument: that it is not only investment, but efficiency. Look, in the other medical systems of the Spanish state, where investment is less than 20% of ours, their indicators are much better. So it seems to me that there is something to think about and how to improve. Their indicators are better than ours. And you often talk about efficiency. Maybe we should take a walk. Let's see what's going on in our health system for the past few years. And, for once, I'd ask the headline Billium to end thegestium by communication. It seems to me that we have something to learn about it. Finally, because we've often been told so lately, and we've been told today it's not the time. Looks like it's never the time. The Pandemia wasn't the moment before. It's not time for the Pandemia season. Mr. and Mrs. EAJ will tell us when the time is, I don't know, for interview, for negotiation, for business. When is the time? At your service.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Popular Group-Ciudados' representative, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mr Tellería, as you know, the amendments to the motions don't come on the touch, and I didn't have it pointed at, stapled in the initial package, but well, I've fixed it, Mr Tellería. As I have seen in the turn of the amendments, I have already assumed that they had tabled amendments, and here I have it, that is, that I have read it carefully and carefully. I mean I didn't think there could be many surprises either; the truth, none, because it's more than expected. A rather continuous discourse and without the necessary ambition, which is reflected in the amendment signed between Euzko Alderdi Jeltzalea and the Socialist Party of Euskadi to deal with this situation. Well, we can agree on one of the points, but it is true that it is an insufficient text. And simply by pointing out Mr Hernández, I have already told him that in some matters we can agree, but in others we are in the antipodes. We cannot agree with you when you speak clearly that you do not cooperate with public and private health, and that concertation is absolutely eliminated. We do believe in that formula of collaboration, and more in complicated scenarios as we are living in, in which resources cannot be spared. I do not understand your speech, that you are constantly calling for more resources in public health and, at the same time, do not want a collaboration with private health through convention, through specific agreements, like many, a collaboration that can help and can also alleviate and contribute, for example, to the reduction of waiting lists. I do not see that approach, without prejudice to the fact that we, of course, also defend, and in that we can agree, that public health must be given greater resources, more effective and more professional, and that there is a deficit, but not from now on, of a long time ago. When last year, speaking of primary care, the primary care strategy was presented in this Parliament, we said that the number of professionals on the table was absolutely insufficient, and I have just said that we also consider the 4,000 seats to be insufficient, which is the number referred to in the amendment by the PNV and the Socialist Party of the Basque Country. Therefore, in that we can agree, but not to say that we do not cooperate and that we do not agree with private health, because we can do an important job. I believe that, in the end, it is a question of providing quality service to citizens, especially in a situation of necessity and in a complicated situation such as the one we are currently suffering. In any case, we will defend our amendment and vote on our own. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u38	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am going to thank the tone in which we have developed this debate, which I think is important, because it is not the same tone in which we have developed other debates in the health field; it seems to me to be a very important and quite considerable advance. Having said that, it is true that the tone has been more moderate, but a dialectic has been used with which I do not agree, a dialectic, in many cases, of confrontation between one another, between what some defend and what others defend, said Mrs Ubera, between one part of the House and another part of the House. This reminds me of something said by a socialist parliamentarian who spent many years here, Jesus Loza. When asked which side he was in conflict, he always replied: "I am a prostration. " Indeed, that is the answer: resolution. There is a strike, it is objective, there has been a strike, you may or may not agree with what is being raised, but there has been a strike, there is a predisposition on the part of the government to sit down for dialogue, sit down for dialogue and let's look for a solution. That is what has been raised here by the Government, I say again, since the first appearance of Councilwoman Sagardui, in which we were all health spokespersons. She said, "I have met with all the representatives of the workers of Osakidetza, and from now on we will start negotiating at the sectoral table." It's in the session log. It was not necessary to wait for the result of any strike to have that hand stretched out for the sectoral table; it moved from here. Here the counselor was sitting and so she moved it to us, it was a will to start. So, I'm not going into that dialectic confrontation, the one with one or the other. I believe that everyone here is a statement I make, and I am convinced that we are improving our public health system. I believe that this is the objective and I believe that if we all put that objective in our heads, the agreement will be possible. The penalty will be that an agreement will be reached between trade unions and the government, and here we are unable to reach agreements. Eye, maybe until we see it. And that'll have to make us reflect. There's something else I didn't like either, and, Mrs. Ubera, I'm telling you directly. He tells us in the second intervention: "I will not question the will of anyone." But in the first one he had told us: "Why don't you want to negotiate?". That's not true, I just said it. There is a sectoral table convened, that in my people is called negotiation. And, of course, complacency does not. I tell you self-requirement. Self-requirement, of course, leads us to have to really dimension where we come from, because the worst mistake we can make is not being clear where we are coming from to the destination we want to take. Because you say, "This has not been caused by the pandemic, this comes from before." Well, speak up, but let's also be realistic: let's get the data. I have told you before: the investment that is made in the budgets of our autonomous community in the field of public health – said Mr Telleria – is 33% in the 2020 budgets, which were approved in 2019. That is not counting the expenditure of COVID-19, because, when we count it, we even increase from 9.8 of GDP. But, of course, we need to know where we came from. It's just that for 10 years there hasn't been any chaos in public health, that's not true. It is that even citizens have positively valued public health management. So, I think we have to settle here. I will end this, with the banner of the resolution, of the search for the solution. At least we're on it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u40	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u41	Good morning again. I believe that the Bureau of Parliament is generous or has not realized it, but today's motion is exactly the same as last week, exactly the same. Only the one we did last Thursday was preceded by a request for improvement of primary care, because it was requested by the citizenry, and yours is less hyperbolic, because it comes here because the unions ask it after a strike. But it's the only difference. I would also like to reiterate that the measures for this improvement were already in the amendment adopted last week. I remind you that you abstained. In addition, this time we have added two things: the 4,000 seats to be convened and that talks and negotiations with the trade unions continue. Because we are there for those negotiations to exist. Look, we're turning around the bride, we're seeing each other in the same places, in the same physical space. We are willing to trade, we have our best disposition, but trading is not adding up what one proposes and what another proposes, is yielding. When I see a proposal to give in and negotiate, I'm willing. But I also want an attitude, or I'm looking for that attitude. It cannot be that we are trading a GNP or a motion and immediately go out in a press conference to give birth to what the government is doing, that cannot be, it has to be something more continuously. But our disposition is total. And let's go back to numbers, because you can think "you're obsessed with numbers." It is that numbers are what marks the headlines that everyone releases, and that then leads to certain conclusions. Look, you co-rule in Navarra and La Rioja. Do you know how much they spend a year per person? Navarra, 1,655; Rioja, 1,477. Here, in Euskadi, the health budget for 2019 rose by 4.3% compared to the previous one, it was allocated 68% to staff, which was 5.1% more than the previous one. The relative weight of the Department of Health grew by 3.7. We are the state community with the most expenditure per person, and since 2013 it has not stopped growing. Okay. With regard to GDP. I go back to GDP because I'm obsessed, because, of course, someone says something, stays there, and everybody repeats it. He's like a friend of mine who once told me that with the albal paper he can't wrap himself around the bright side, because he's got poison. And I told him who told you that? And it says "the wasap." Well, that's the same thing. Someone sent a wasap and it's over. I'll tell you one thing, they're not comparable. 5.2% of Euskadi is the real public expenditure on GDP. In the OECD, to our misfortune, Euskadi's data does not come out, it goes out by states. Then 5.2% is taken from reality and that of the OECD by calculating the expenditure I have told you. It's the only statistical report I've seen that says how it pulls the data. Can you believe that the average per capita health expenditure in Europe is EUR 2,713 and in the Spanish State EUR 2,446? Do you believe that? I don't. If it's in public health spending. In the same study, in a section he talks about the United States. Do you know what you spent per person in health in 2019? $11,071. And 17% of GDP in health. That is the result of the OECD report. Do you believe him? Well, look, if it's in public health, I don't believe it. But everything has its little revolt, because the OECD report that, if you look at it, has a lot of data. For example, he says that one of the European countries that spends most per person is Denmark. But in another section, which talks about psychiatric diseases, it makes another statistic, which is the percentage of citizens with psychiatric treatment who commit suicide. The European average is 3.1; the Danish average is 11.1. Sometimes money doesn't give happiness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u42	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Mist team won't join. So, since the discussion is over, we'll vote together for the middle-direction that Podemos-IUs and EH Collect has signed. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary is 48; the abstations are 0; white, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u43	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudadans. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes are 75; 6; the opponents are 41; the opposition is 28; the white is 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u44	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes given, 75; 41; the contrary, 27; the abstainments 7; white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u45	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Eusscal Popularo-Ciudadnos propose as a parlamentary group-about the integration of the alzheimer for Eska Autonomia Er member. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs Garrido, representative of Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u46	Gracias, señora presidenta. The President, the chairman, the congressman, the good day, again. Well, we've come to an agreement. It has not yet been divided, but I will explain it more or less. I hope now, as soon as possible, we'll deal with the rest of the teams. Today we brought a proposal about Alzheimer's to the legislature. We have to say this proposal is not new. We brought the same proposal in the preceding law, and agreed with a broad consent, because we tried a text with one mouth. According to this, M. M.M. would have to do a specific plan on an alzheimer with the intention of conducting specific measures against this disease. According to the World Health Organization, dementia is a generic term that is used to refer to several diseases that, for the most part, are progressive diseases that cause a progressive deterioration in the person suffering from it. They affect memory, other cognitive abilities and behavior. They clearly interfere with the person's ability to carry out daily activities. The most common form of dementia is alzheimer, which accounts for 60% and 70% of cases. It is also true that the term alzhéimer refers to other types of dementia. Therefore, we can say that, rather than referring to a clinical or neuropathological entity, we are referring to a health condition that also covers, as I said, dementias. The alzheimer is a neurodegenerative pathology that manifests itself through cognitive deterioration and behavioral disorders, and is characterized by an immediate and progressive loss of memory, and other mental abilities, as nerve cells die and various parts of the brain atrophy. The person with alzheimer is suffering a progressive deterioration that leads to her death. Depending on the severity of the condition at the time of diagnosis, as well as the care and, obviously, the ability of the person suffering from this disease, it can live ten years. We must therefore say that the approach to alzhéimer is a clear health priority. In this regard, the Popular-Citizens Coalition calls for a plan for alzheimer in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country to address issues such as its size, scope, sectors of the population that may be affected, which are in fact affected, which are not only people suffering from this pathology, but also the family environment and families that care for people with alzheimer. We can say that, in the autonomous community, it affects about 8% of the population who are over 65 years of age. We're talking about almost 40,000 people. In addition, this disease will continue to have a strong impact on health, as 114,000 people are expected to be affected in Euskadi by 2050. To what should be added the triple of people, caregivers, who are also affected daily by the social and family impact that this disease causes. That is why we said that an integral plan is needed to address this pathology, a plan with rigour, which, of course, mitigates the consequences of this disease. We are all aware of the development of the Global Plan of Action on the Public Health Response to dementia 2017-2025, with very clear strategic lines of action in areas such as dementia as a public health priority, awareness and adaptation to dementia, reduction of the risk of dementia, diagnosis, treatment, care and support for dementia, support for caregivers and people with dementia, information systems and research and innovation. We also know the Alzhéimer National Plan and other Dementia 2019-2020, approved last year. It's an integral plan. Therefore, addressing dementia and, in particular, alzheimer must be a public health priority and a major social and health problem. The social and economic impact of this disease must be clearly mentioned, and this implies the imperative need to take action to provide comprehensive specific responses, both to people who suffer from alzheimer and to people who care for people who have this disease. The special vulnerability situation of the affected persons must also be remembered; comprehensive responses and solutions must be sought, involving different departments, inter-departmental actions, and the different public administrations. As I said, the last legislature has already approved an agreement, at the request of the People's Group, an agreement unanimously, in which we urged the Basque Government to draw up a comprehensive plan of alzheimer for the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, within the framework of the Strategy for Neurodegenerative and Neuromuscular Diseases in Euskadi. The legislature ended and we had no news of that plan within the Neurodegenerative and Neuromuscular Diseases Strategy. We considered it opportune to bring this issue again, because of its importance: that a comprehensive plan be drawn up, once and for all, to respond to the people who have alzheimer, because of their impact, because of their size, because of the people they affect and that in the future they will be more in Euskadi. I must say that we have finally reached an agreement with the groups that support the Government. I thank the speakers and Mr Aiartza, with whom I have negotiated this matter, their sensitivity and their effort to reach an agreement that I believe is good. We have not come to incorporate issues from other groups, because we did not consider them necessary. In particular, I am referring to a specific issue of Bildu, which referred to changing the name and talking about "integral dementia plan". But, as I said, with the term alzheimer we are also encompassing dementias and it is the term used. I have already told you what the plan is called at European level (sic ), it is clearly called the Alzhéimer Plan and other dementias. And also the plan we have here. I know that some actions began in the past legislature. That's how the department found out. Well, we understand that a path was started, but that path could not be completed by the end of the legislature and also by the incidence of the pandemic. We urge the Basque Government, as soon as possible, to draw up this plan within the framework of this Strategy for Neurodegenerative and Neuromuscular Diseases, to have the people working in the sector, with the different agents, to refer it also to the Basque Parliament, because one thing is to have a plan, but we need to know how that plan is implemented, and to be able to account for the implementation of that plan and to evaluate that plan annually in this Parliament. And also that, if the plan and the strategy are to lead to changes in the existing legislation, both in the health and social fields, which is to be made. Like I said, I think it's a positive agreement. The last parliamentary term was possible to reach an agreement unanimously and I hope that this time too is possible, because I believe that the amending groups have a broad agreement on this plan. Let us hope, Mr Lehendakari, that we will have this plan in Parliament as soon as possible, in order to resolve and try to alleviate the impact of a disease affecting many people in Euskadi. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u47	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mistto, Mrs Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u48	Good morning. I confess that I expected the version of the Basque Parliament of Marmot Day, but the People's Party has woken me up on a new day. That's right, it promises to reoccur in time. He reached an agreement with the party that betrayed him in Madrid and that took Pedro Sánchez to the presidency. And today it does it to delve a little deeper into Basque singularity, although we are talking about a disease that is just as tragic here as anywhere else. Go ahead and I know that the reality of people with alzheimer, like those of anyone suffering from neurodegenerative disease, is very complicated. As is also the case for those who take care of them, usually in the nearest environment and with little or no preparation for very hard work physically and mentally. And go ahead as well that we know that there are public and private resources for the proper care of those suffering from these diseases, either directly or indirectly. Even today, there are still a large number of patients and families to whom these aids do not reach, who suffer daily from the rigors of very harsh and cruel pathologies. But we have not just understood the local approach that is intended to give to the comprehensive approach of the alzheimer, of dementias. Of course, we must have the health resources we have at our disposal in the Basque Country, also with the social resources, which are quite diverse, but the plan already exists, there is a national plan to raise the profile of special, organized, coordinated and sufficient care for those suffering from this disease. The theoretical framework is already detailed, the needs of patients and their families are also pointed out, as well as the concrete actions to offer them the best possible care; also to raise awareness of the healthy population and to advance in the fields of research and innovation. A plan to which institutions, agents, entities, associations, specialists and people linked to social services and the associative world of Spain have contributed, except in the Basque Country. At least I haven't been able to find a single one of the collaborators in Alzhéimer's overall plan that is Basque. And I am convinced that the problems of people with alzhéimer are very similar here, in Burgos or Huelva, the panic that involves the gradual loss of capabilities and functionality, the anguish of family members, the lack of external support, every step behind the degenerative process, here and there. So Alzhéimer's National Plan serves as well here as there. It is true, however, that the various agents working in the Basque Country must be coordinated and the existing resources and the people to whom the various actions will be directed. In short, Vox will support any action to materialize the national plan in Euskadi, to coordinate all the services available in the Basque Country for people with alzhéimer or any other neurodegenerative disease. But we cannot support the elaboration of a Basque plan, which we consider unnecessary and a real waste of time. Something that patients and family members don't have: time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u49	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs Garde, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u50	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. Today we are in possession of the proposal for the integration of the alzheimer for Eukalcal Autonomia Erria, brought back by Mrs Garrido. So, it's not a new issue. However, it has been nearly a year since the agreement about the plan had been concluded, and we have not yet planned, nor yet have we any signs of it. We've been asking the Medical Department about it. And he has answered that the original document of the neronegenative and neromuscular strategy is present in the drafting process, and therefore the plan of the alzheimer, which falls within it. Last December, it was agreed with one voice that in this parliament we put on our integration plan of the Alzheimer's. The subject was of immense importance to all sides, and we considered it a privilege. Nevertheless, he was excluded from the arrangement by the order of the EH Collectors to determine the calendar. And, from the delays, it must be said that the absence of it has been very evident. And when have I the chance to see that middle line, because I haven't had my turn... I hope he gets something about it. I'll see. The predictions have not been completed, but the deadlines have not been completed. We are told that pandems have been influenced in the Kronogram, which is obviously very intelligible. But in the meantime, COVID-19 has upset the lives of patients who live with Alzheimer's and dementia, and also their relatives and guardians. It's true that COVID-19 surprised us all. But if the strategy and plan had been in progress, we would have been in another situation to face the pandemy, probably with more resources, at least with Alzheimer's and dementions. So, at the first point of our total correction, we ask that the originals received in the agreement should be established in six months' time, in short, to establish a minimum of calendar, to make the plan, for once and for all, a reality. For it is necessary that the plan should be maintained, and rather that it should be answered at this time of pandemy. And I'm afraid it's too bad they can come in here to deal with other people, too. That's why we think it's urgent for the third part of our integer correction. It's just in the middle of the middle of the line that the integrated plan of the Euskal Autonomia alzheimer, in order to account for COVID19's social conditions. I mean, plan to adapt to the exceptions we now live in. It is well known that COVID-19 has affected people who live in dementia with dementia in a singular and in a singular manner, because the others have been separated and isolated from them in their time of panic. Profesional, hear, many researchers have warned us that solitude and isolation have caused men who live in dementia have great disruption. In many cases it has been especially difficult to understand why people who have decency are isolated, why they can't be near those who love them. Besides, everyday habits have been interrupted, social interactions have become completely reduced, visits, departures, exercise, and highly-reciative activities have been completely interrupted... This has produced several consequences: fear, anxiety, depression, confusion, abusing symptoms, and, in short, suffering. In this sense, the families have also been informed that in the time of pandemia, the cognitive and functional intellect of many persons who live with decency has been visibly abused. So we have to be Transparent. The prices we have taken to face the pandemia are of no use to protect the health of all men. Cannot generalize measures without specifying special activities. I mean what the CEO of the International Organization of Paola Barbarino Alzheimer expresses in his words: "The government must act quickly to protect the weak communities. Governments can't refuse commitments identified in their dementia plans or development plans. Needful actions are required, as the Pandemies advance, to improve the services of persons with decency." We must confess, lately, that we have seen some signs of change in this line. For example, the protocol announced in September by the Medical Department was the protocol for protecting the protocol from COVID-19 in the centenitarian centres. Here, some distinctions are made by considering specific needs according to the local profiles. In addition, they suggest that visits and departure plans should be made to work and dissected groups, always keeping security measures. We agree with that. Moreover, it is for us that rejoices, because there is a manifest change in it. But the execution of this protocol has been entrusted to the deputations, and in many cases it has not been put into action. So we were informed yesterday by the residents' relatives, all members of the Political Society. Many of the dwellings remain wholly shut up to-day, with all that concerns it. So that's a great protocol, but it's left in nothing in many cases. We must go beyond protocol, we need orders, if we really want it to be taken care of. In this way, you have to be careful. And to protect the weakest collectives, should we protect the health of the residents? Sure. Should we avoid virus infections? Of course, but we can't ignore the mental health of the residents, the emotional health, or the activities that make them happy in life. We must end with absolute isolation and loneliness, for once. To die with the Coronabirus, or die with loneliness and sadness, though it seems a tragic crossroads, has in many cases become a true tale. We have to guarantee worthy lives for all men. To do this we must search for new formulas, measures to stop the re-use that may be compatible, and to guard the physical and mental health of all people. It may be difficult, but no doubt it is indispensable. He said that dying with coronavirus or dying in solitude and sadness, even though it seems like a tragic crossroads, in many cases it has become a real choice. We must guarantee decent lives that are worth living for all people. And to do this, we need to look for innovative formulas that match the measures to stop the virus and the measures to guarantee the physical but also mental health of all people. It may be difficult, but it is certainly something indispensable, essential, at least for us. So let's get back to work, please, in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u51	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am not going to go much further on this issue, because we come from a meeting point of all the groups in this House in the last legislature, which cannot really surprise us either, given the issue we are dealing with and the sensitivity that awakens in all of us, because of the cruelty of the impact of this pathology on those who suffer directly, and also on the whole of the families that we have had to deal with some case between our own. It is precisely this sensitivity that has facilitated the agreement with the proposing group, the People's Group; I thank you. I understand that you will receive very important support from this House. Now, with the intervention of EH Bildu, I have the doubt of what EH Bildu will do: I do not know if they will vote in favour, I am asking you directly whether they will vote in favour of what they voted for less than a year ago or not. As I have just said, not just a year ago, on 3 December 2019, we all support a compromise amendment which came to ask the Basque Government to draw up and implement, within the framework of the Euskadi Strategy for Neurodegenerative and Neuromuscular Diseases, a comprehensive alzheimer plan for the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and that, to this end, they will have the participation of the agents working in this field, and that the evolution and the degree of compliance with the plan should be referred to Parliament each year. And that the necessary adjustments and regulatory developments in the health sector in the social services system should be carried out in order to provide comprehensive care in the various fields. Of course, in short, we Socialists agreed on this less than a year ago, and we still agree with it today in Parliament. There's not much more to say. In the amendment that we had originally tabled together with the Basque Nationalist group, we committed ourselves to this agreement, and the compromise is also reflected in the compromise amendment to maintain the specific momentum in the elaboration of the alzheimer care plan, within the Strategy for the Care of Neurodegenerative and Neuromuscular Diseases, as well as to continue to comply with the conditions relating to the participation of agents, the accountability and the necessary regulatory adjustments and developments, as set out in the Commission's own agreement. This is something that the Basque Government has been working on since the last parliamentary term, as expressed publicly and in writing in a reply sent to Mrs Garrido in February, and it is something that the current Government has resumed. It is clear that the COVID-19 pandemic has forced a change in the deadlines set out in the initial timetable, and this has already been reported in this House, through two replies to Mrs Garde herself. This is therefore an issue that we share that needs to be addressed and that this Government is going to carry out. Having said that, man, I do think it is quite reasonable to understand that in the process of drawing up a strategy that includes a plan like this, in which, moreover, as one of the commitments contained in the agreement itself, the contrast has been established with the different agents called to contribute, since the incidence of COVID-19 has caused the timetable to be delayed. It seems to me quite reasonable, a perfectly manageable situation. I think it's reasonable to collect all those contributions. That is what we are doing now in that draft phase, as has already been moved to it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u53	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u54	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. This time I will be really brief, but this is a tremendously important issue for us. Neurodegenerative diseases and neuromuscular diseases are undoubtedly a concern for this Government. They are a large number of diseases and with different prevalences, some are uncommon or very rare, even if they are included within the so-called rare diseases, of low prevalence, and others, on the contrary, are more frequent. We were told by Mrs. Garrido: the alzheimer, the parkinson, with a high or very high prevalence today. Mrs Garrido also developed an idea: the forecast for the future, our increase, the progressive increase in life expectancy, excellent news, but we know that it will cause an exponential increase in the frequency of these diseases and their problems. His clinical manifestations and pathological and molecular alterations are also very heterogeneous. But, despite all these apparent differences, they have a common factor: all the diseases included in this strategy have as common denominator that are chronic, progressive and incurable, and are characterized, from a medical point of view, by the progressive and unstoppable loss of neurons of the central nervous system or peripheral nervous system. This is neurodegeneration, and this determines the gradual deterioration of neurological functions and the increased physical and cognitive disability of those affected and affected. This growing disability undermines the quality of life of the people affected and its impact transcends the family and also the social sphere, due to the high costs it generates. With regard to prevention, a large majority of the diseases included in this strategy remain unpreventable or lack treatment that significantly slows down the disability they cause. In the field of diagnosis, moreover, the possibility of making the early or pre-supplementary diagnosis of most of these diseases is still impossible or very difficult in the usual clinical practice. In short, the frequency, severity and personal, family, health and social significance of these diseases pose a need, the need for a multisectoral and coordinated approach, health, social and research, and support for the family and caregivers, always promoting patient autonomy and respecting their decisions. The Strategy for Neurodegenerative and Neuromuscular Diseases in Euskadi, led by the Basque Government's Department of Health, is the response to this need. It is the tool we have to respond to one of the great challenges of our health system in the coming decades. That is why we thought it appropriate for this parliamentary group to bring this initiative back, as Mrs Garrido has done, because, although we had dealt with it just under a year ago, it had its highest meaning. Recalling those reasons that we argued a year ago, we talked about the importance of the issue, which I have stressed again, and the commitment to these diseases. We also developed another idea: it is not only a strategy about alzheimer, but about all neurodegenerative diseases and also about neuromuscular diseases, with that common factor that I talked about before. And a third idea: integral attention. Sick people, families, agents, caregivers, a large group of people. We are very happy, in December 2019, for unanimity. And, as Mr Rico said, I too hope that there will be that unanimity today. On the specific issue or the issue of today's transaction, with today's agreement, I think it is important to highlight the recognition of the work of the Department of Health that is being done in that agreement, and we urge you, we tell you, to continue with the actions aimed at meeting those objectives. We recognize the difficulties, how we are not going to recognize the difficulties facing the department in this challenge, because we are all aware of those difficulties, and we also understand them, in relation to the main point two of the original agreement: not the possibility, but the need for the participation of the actors involved in this strategy. Of course, the pandemic has complicated this very much. That is why it seems essential to us, moreover, to acquire a new commitment, which is, adapting to this reality, to the present reality, to regain that time which has been given up because of the pandemic, which has not been lost, given up, has been given up by perfectly well-known issues. So, we know the department's gonna get that time back. I only have to thank Mrs Garrido for her willingness to negotiate. And, as Mr Rico also said, to urge, if I may, the rest of the groups to support the text we have had sex with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u55	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u56	Good morning again. Well, our coalition, in fact, on that occasion, in December of the previous parliamentary term, did not present an amendment to the initiative on that occasion either. An agreement was reached between the rest of the groups. At that time we voted in favour, we said that we agreed and, moreover, we said that we were happy with that agreement. Today Mrs Garrido presents us with an initiative to urge the Government, in some way, to comply with that agreement. It seemed to us appropriate, therefore we have not made an amendment, it seemed to us good because, indeed, that parliamentary agreement has not yet been implemented, and we therefore agree. It is true that the Government has begun work to implement that agreement, and we therefore also agree with the compromise that they have reached; we are going to vote in favour. I am going to refer to Mrs Garde's amendment as a whole, because we thought she had interesting things that could have been in this agreement today. I do not know the negotiations, because, since we have not made an amendment, I have not been. But putting a concrete deadline always seems good to us. I know that the government is not going to see it, and less so in this situation, but it seems good to us, especially if this comes from an agreement of the previous legislature; it seems to me that six months is not too narrow a margin either. On the other hand, Mrs Garde raises in her amendment the issue of redenomination, changing the name to the plan. I believe that the arguments given in the amendment itself and in the explanation are correct and that this could be addressed, because, in fact, it is not the only disease to rise, although it is the most important neurodegenerative pathology in this group. Well, I think that was also an interesting contribution that could have been picked up. With regard to the latter, it seems to us of absolute common sense, the impact of the pandemic at this time is more than evident on sick people and their immediate environments. It is therefore common sense for us to urge the Government to adapt the plan also to the reality caused by the pandemic. It would have been an even better transaction and we would have voted for it better. The amendment by EH Bildu is not going to be voted on, we would have voted on it too, we agree. The only one with which we do not agree is the Vox initiative, which, moreover, I think is taking advantage of a debate like this for other approaches that I think are not appropriate. We are, of course, going to vote in favour of this initiative, because, as you see, we are not here only to generate conflict, as we are sometimes told. If we agree with things, we support them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u57	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Does anyone want to join the answering shift? Yes, Popular-Ciudados, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u58	Madam President. Well, I did think it appropriate to make some assessments on some of the issues that have been put on the table. I know, Mrs Martínez, that you are new in this House, but I can tell you that in the years I have been a Member of Parliament, we have reached agreement and we have urged the Basque Government in other plans that the Basque Government itself has drawn up. And I assure you that they have been very necessary for the groups to whom they were directed. I am referring to the Strategy for Rare Diseases, the collective asked us so; the Primary Care Strategy that we have criticized, but there it is; the Strategy for the Prevention of Suicide; a plan for falls; a plan for the care of cancer in Basquedi; a plan for the development of genetics; a health plan, which now ends its validity, the 2013-2020 plan, in which we had the opportunity to participate all groups in 2013, and in which we will have the opportunity to participate also when the new health plan is forwarded for the following years. This plan has also been developed with the associations. Tell the associations of the alzheimer in Euskadi that there is no need for a plan for the alzheimer in Euskadi. Mrs Martínez, is it that if we take the argument to its extent, because there are European plans, there are no plans in Spain? Because there are plans in Spain, can we not the autonomous communities, from the loyal exercise and respect for the competences of the other institutions, to make plans for the approach of pathologies that have a high incidence in our respective autonomous communities, such as the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, where you know very well, as all parliamentarians in this House, that the rate of aging of the population is very high, with its incidence in chronic diseases, and that the alzheimer has a significant impact on the population? I was talking to him about a figure of 8%, but I was telling him that the forecast in the following years is to increase the number of people who may be affected by this disease. This text, as I say to you, has been agreed with the associations of the alzheimer of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. It is therefore the text that this Member of Parliament has already brought in the last parliamentary term and that was adopted unanimously. I regret that this time that agreement with Bildu is not possible, because the previous time it was possible and the same agreement is reproduced. We did not put the deadline before, I think once this new legislature has begun and once the work is in progress and there is a draft, as was answered in the answer to your question, if the strategy of neurodegenerative diseases on the alzheimer does not arrive within a time frame that we all consider prudent, because we also have other mechanisms to ask and control this government in relation to the delay of this plan, but we will also trust that this time the plan will arrive as soon as possible. Last year, as I say, Bildu joined this agreement, and therefore made it possible to take this initiative unanimously. I believe that an effort can be made to draw up a text which, moreover, is the same. The deadline could have been set, but I do not think that this is as important a matter as you have reflected in your speech. We didn't agree with the redefining of the plan. We believe that the plan should be called the "alzheimer plan", as other plans are also called, we believe that the title corresponds to reality and is appropriate to what is intended to be regulated. I would like to thank Mr Rico and Mr Aiartza for their availability. I believe that, in the end, apart from the fact that there are two parties that at the moment make up the Basque Government and that have a majority, it is good – I think here too – when an effort is made to widen those agreements. I believe that, moreover, it is an issue on which we must all be sensitive, because it is good that the agreements come out with as much support as possible in this House. In that regard, let Bildu reflect on his final position on this issue, as he voted in favour just a year ago. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u59	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Misto wants to take the word? No. I want you to collect EH, Mrs Garde, that's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u60	Hello again. The president of Micheline Selmes Alzheimer Fundtz says that the patients who have an alzheimer and their relations have been victims of pandemonic and confidence. He says, moreover, that the functional, cognitative, and physical state of persons who have an alzheimer, has been affected by a change of conduct, and has improved the rate and progress of disease. In the same sense, the Neurology of the Alfredo Rodríguez-Antigüedad Cross Hospital has shown that the patients there have been badly damaged in the pandemae. He adds that they have insuperable difficulties to study and apply the habits of preventive infection. But we, in principle, have no difficulty in learning and applying things. I think we should begin to understand pandemy as a process of study. We know more than yesterday, and we hope to know less than tomorrow. And, based on this science, we must be able to adapt and manage the measures we take to prevent the pandemy. Pandemia won't end tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow it won't end. It's going long. So let's make use of the learned. Even if it's based on trial and error, let's change our decisions for the better. We have to recognize the mistakes made, so that serious situations such as those experienced in many residences, such as isolated persons, living and dying in solitude, do not happen again. Bakarrik isolaturik bizi eta hil, horrelakorik ezin da berriro ere geratatusu. Bereizketarik gabe egoitzak ixtea, bereizketarik gabeko neuroriekin, akatsa izana da. That many of them remain closed to lime and song is a mistake. Egoiliarren kolektibo ahulenen behar spezifikoa kontuan ez hartzea akatsa izan da. A person with dementia or alzheimer cannot be locked up for a long time, it is not possible. Ezin will say bortitzean modu dituztenengandik urrunduak izan. And you can't break from day to day the routines that sustain it and contain the disease. For us, the azheimer's integration plan must be a tool to get a few goals and meet the hinges. And in this sense, we think it may be useful to overcome the imperfections which have hitherto been committed. Aren't we challenge the virus? And the delay is normal, we said it's still normal to be in the draft stage because of the pandemi. We've consumed that. We didn't question, but in the middle of the media you don't specify any minimum of calendar. It's not done. In your transactional, there is no mention of the pandemic. Are we not yet aware that the collective we are talking about today, people with dementia, with alzheimer, have been among the most harmed in the pandemic, so that the plan fits in and collects this? You're just talking about the pandemic to justify the delays. I don't understand that. And you asked me again about the second point of our correction. The term dementia is more inlerable than an alzheimer, and the institution of the World of Health speaks about it, and the plans which are made in the Spanish State, both of them: "alzhéimer y omras demencias." But we didn't want to insist on it, or get to an agreement. Laura, you could have talked to me because I've been behind you to talk about it and you didn't want to. Then you say: "Well, if you want to know," said he, "I'll tell you what, I'll tell you, I'll tell you. "I don't know. I don't know. We're not gonna fight the plan, we're not gonna do that. But we believe it was a losing opportunity to consider and involve certain things. And we proposed to go beyond it. We believe, in this stage of draft, that the moment would be appropriate to adapt to the plan and to appreciate the condition of exceptions we live in. It wasn't possible today. But we hope soon to change it, for all of us and especially for the good of the people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u61	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Does the Basque Socialist have to be a part of the team? Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I could have really stepped in from the seat, because I'm going to be brief, but custom has made me come all the way here. I would like to thank those who have said that they are going to vote in favour of this amendment. Bildu has not made it clear to us whether he is going to abstain or is going to vote in favour; he has said that he is not going to vote against it. We see you want to keep us in the dark. But, of course, what I am asking you to do is to reflect and vote in favour of something that a year ago, less than a year ago, brought about the unanimity of all. It does not seem justified to me that this unanimity is not possible now. Then, man, Mrs Garde, to put here that you are the only one who has realized that the pandemic has had consequences on any kind of people with such serious pathologies, as can be that of the alzheimer, is to presume a lot. Do you really believe that those same agents who are going to be called to complete this draft have not seen it? Because you have spoken here about a number of people who, precisely, belong to those social sectors and to those professional sectors in direct contact with this series of pathologies. Man, trust me a little, really, we don't do this to piss off EH Bildu. Really, trust that when you address an issue, a strategy like this, all kinds of incidents that are on the way can end up completing that strategy. I therefore simply ask that EH Bildu maintain the vote in favour of unanimity less than a year ago, and I am grateful for the compromise with the People's Party and the support of the rest of the groups. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u63	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eunerative patriots, Lord Aianzea mustn't speak a word. Mr. Hernandez mustn't speak either. End of discussion, we're going to vote for the half-correction signed by Basque Populara-Ciudadans, Basque Socialists, and Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 70; the supporters, 69; the opposites 1; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u64	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "Punciation of the same law as the parliamentary organization of the Union, of the establishment of sociations in the culture and in the culture industry of the sociations, of the necessary application of the case of effective measures. Discipline and final resolution. On the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Estarrona, representative of the EH Collect team, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u65	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Cultural Chief. During those weeks when we were serving the official bulletin, you'll be reminded that no one spoke of him as a basic culture, that is to say, when they were mentioned by a character of necessity, culture was not heard among them. Nevertheless, in the hardest moments of close confinement we had cultured our breathing, and even in the time when we had to reduce our social life, we have a kind of respiration: music, literature, poetry, theater, dancing, cinema: art in general. When we were obliged to stay more at home, the crisis of health forced us even to stay with ourselves, and the other reminded us of the real value and contributions of culture in our lives. The first part of the sector was to interrupt the activity, especially the direct performances, for the sake of their nature, and the last to start again. Nowadays many halls have drawn down the blinds, and some of them, unfortunately, we don't know if they'll ever be able to open again. Some restrictive measures which had been established in culture and remained in time did not differ or disagree with those established in other activities. This happened, among other things, because culture did not possess the character that has declared it to be, its fundamental and urgent nature. We can't go back in some way, but we can look back and learn what we've done and build in the right direction. This law of Araba, Bizkai, and Gipulia, is therefore destined to have a good fortune of life, and to acknowledge the importance of society. It's an important statement, but it can't be stopped. You can't stay in an empty expression. That's why, in our original initiative, we were wondering if we'd be able to make sure that we'd start the necessary actions, and make the development that it requires to be effective. It can't be. "Mama didn't want to take it on herself, though we have a right to it, as long as culture is a concession, according to article 149.2 of the Constitution, and the 107 of the United States of Gunika. So we're happy, because we think that it's important to confess the law to culture, because it's significant and the message that comes to it is important. But we're worried a little bit salty because the government didn't do it today. Today, I say, because we believe it may be a foundation to bring culture and culture industry to the first line of the political agenda, and to continue to build here and now in a particular direction. Hence the second point which we have received in the agreement goes also in this direction: "At least we ask all the public authorities to maintain public funds that go to worship." I think this is important. That's right, as far as we're experiencing pandemy, so far as "so far as social and economic comparison makes it possible." But we think it's important to make a call on Araba, Bizkai, and Gipuzian institutions to maintain money shares in the budget, in order to make the commitment, if things don't get much worse, because the cultural agents in the department make us worry over and over again, and that's one of their chief concerns at this moment. So that makes it very important that the budgets of 2021 are designed. At the third point of the deal, at the third point of the agreement obtained between the government and the government, we ask you to take the necessary measures for the development of health, in order to secure the state of culture, by securing the health of the culturers, citizens, and society." I think this is a fundamental matter, as necessary as logical in this pandemy context. Now, if this is due to the development of the state of health, and the cultureal activities must be abandoned, the compensations must be put aside to leave no one. Nor can these measures be those which have hitherto been set forth, or those alone. Because it's clear, somehow, that I wasn't able to figure out how to start those measurements. I think I'm just saying that I'm just saying, "You know, I'm just saying, "You know, I'm just saying, "Yeah," like, "I'm just saying, "I'm just trying to tell you something." We don't say it's complicated, knowing the sector, knowing the atmosphericisation of the sector, but we said from the beginning that with these considerations and conditions of support they would be very limited within reach. And it was. And here's the graphic in which two main lines of scholarship were started. On the one hand, the subsidizing subsidy of society and society, 2 million euros, in which 4000,000 dollars have been spent, that is, 20% of what has been planned. And, on the other hand, we have two million and a half share of money handled by professional men of culture, and by profession, where only 431,000 Euros have been spent, 173%. So, something didn't work. Therefore, in accordance with this agreement, we have received it on the fourth point of the agreement as follows: "We ask that the new measures to answer the consequences of this crisis should be carried out to give them new prices, and also to assist in helping them to adapt their criteria, conditions, and duties." $3,800,000 left out of 4 million and a half. As for the rest, these cultural aids are incompatible. Why should there be co-ordinations such as the rerevere plan with those set out by the State of Spain, and those who started in the culture can't be compatible? That's the question we ask and we prolong. Finally, in this five-point agreement we've already signed and signed, we'd like to point out another point, because we're asking you to do it in Europe's funding and exhibiting projects that are looking at the culture industry and the screening industry, which are trained up with the sector, considering the social and localization. We could argue about the projects that were introduced to my first list about the construction of the new Museum of Fine Arts or the construction of Guggenheim, but we won't get into it. On the contrary, we believe that we must focus on those projects which present us in the existence of social panic, and above all of those projects which will appreciate the growth of land. This, as we have agreed here today, being accompanied by the sector, if it is made in the work, we may be sure that it will be so, or at least that the great unbalanced in some way, will become a little balanced. On the other hand, we told the Chief of the Zupiria that at least 2% ought to be directed to the culture and the culture and manufactures, the recovery and resilence of the European funds, at least 2% according to their specific needs. Thus the European Union specifies, and we do not reach the minimum specified by the European Union by the project introduced in this initial list. So this last point is also very important for euscal culture and culture industry, because there will be a bag of money. We believe that we must share, and act in a direct way, cultivate, and present them, in order to be financed. So I think the agreement we made here today is good, and I wish to thank Michael the bottom of the country, for he has made this bargain, because we have made it through him. As I said before, it's at least a basis. And I think it's a solid foundation. A foundation, to continue building itself together, a foundation, to answer the state in which our creators live, because it is a severe condition. It's very difficult. It's disturbing. The idio Hernández, the musician Hachez, announced in an interview: "COVID-19 has made me feel more emotionally and less powerful. You have to make a lot of effort to get the projects started inside. In a moment you might receive some very cheerful and exciting news, some telephone here or there, but two more of them follow the bad, the plungers." Therefore, I want to emphasise, and once more to value, the importance of true solidarity and solidarity with the creators at this particular moment. Because all this emotionally influence on society and culture is being very important. Because this emotional influence is also taking place at all levels of culture system. And as I'm talking about all the levels, I'll take advantage of my last culture experience to share with you. Often, when speaking of culture, we use bibliographics or historical quotations, or the names of great artists or writers-I would like to share my last experience of culture with you. Yesterday's learning experience, going to the art and profession school next door, was given to me by a six-year-old who gave me this drawing. Honestly, I think it's very important as a culture experience, and emotionally supposes in this situation we live in. I think it's very important that our children, our children, and our children, may be deep in culture experience during these periods of time, may be able to escape from this pandemy surrounding us and share with us. I think it's a very beautiful emotional and cultural experience, because culture experience helps us to make a place on all levels, and culture engineers in the world. They feed us the inner world, help us to the construction of the sense, help us to build ourselves, even to understand the world. They encourage exchange, they create space for amusement, they invite us to explore, and they make us feel like a member of a community. Thank you, Xabi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u66	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representative of the populars of Euskal Group, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. Mr. Estarrona, the truth is the boy promises. The truth is that the work he has taught us is very beautiful and it is true that we must encourage him to continue, using himself thoroughly with the painting, with the drawing, as many others with so many disciplines that today are in parentheses. We shall vote in favour of the initiative before us, the compromise amendment. Of course, for us any step we take will be positive. It is positive to see agreements with regard to creators, artists, people of culture and to see that there can be efforts in a certain sense. I believe, Mr Estarrona, that the key lies in the forthcoming budgets and in the will to materialise in headings the areas primarily of promotion of culture, historical and artistic heritage, but also of others that can be linked to economic development or even to ETB. That is, there has to be the effort to reactivate cultural creation, to reactivate art, literary promotion, editorial, musical, etc. It is clear that the key to this recovery and to support the sector now, in 2021, is in the budgets, in its headings, because they will be essential in relation to getting out of the crisis, to the extent possible and who can, moreover, because some may be left on the way. That is why our whole amendment was picking up that concern, by declaring culture, as you said, very essential, very basic; we were talking about particular attention. We wanted not only to maintain the effort in the draft General Budgets of the Autonomous Community for 2021, but also to ensure and strengthen economic programmes to support the various sectors affected by difficulties and restrictions in the creation, exposure and access to culture, while also respecting the territorial balance, in collaboration with the various actors and artistic and cultural associations. That is, we emphasized the effort that must be made budgetaryly to overcome, perhaps, the inefficiencies of some of the aids, how they have been managed; an effort with clear support programmes, with public finances and the effort of cultural policy in order to overcome, if God wills, what we are suffering. That is why we are reflecting on this amendment and this debate, because I believe that it is necessary to modify the instruments for promoting culture that currently exist in this country. We have had and have on the table the Auzolan plan; we will have to see it and analyze it in what may be in force. But it is a fundamental element of the Culture Plan 2019-2022, which has been affected by this boulder at the beginning of this journey. I believe that we must go to the plan set out by the Basque Government last parliamentary term, which goes on horseback between the eleventh and twelfth legislatures, to see what we can do. This has to be connected with the aid and the economic effort towards the world of creation, the artistic world, the world of art and culture. It is key to reflect and act on those issues that the plan itself speaks of: objectives, characteristics and culture. It's an open plan, a strategic plan, a flexible plan. It is clear that the plan needs to be modified, it needs to be restructured in the future, because this mazazo has already influenced the flotation line of any strategic organizational structure, in this case, that of culture. The objectives of the report, on the strategic side, were very clear, saying: "The first objective of this report is to define the main lines of cultural policies for the next four years, in order to ensure their consistency and continuity". For these lines have been seriously altered by the crisis that is suffering artists and creators in this country. I mean, we have to review that. The Government has to do so. I hope that it is doing so and, in the light of this initiative, that it can do so, because it is the fundamental element. The Culture Plan 2019-2022 is seriously altered by a factor that has occurred, but which, of course, is very serious. Regarding the characteristics of that plan, we said it was an open plan. Consequently, the Culture Plan must be flexible and open to adapt to new situations and challenges. Now there is a new situation, that is, we need to modify that plan. He said it had to be feasible, because it is essential to have a clear awareness of the resources we have. Indeed, we have resources; now we must make good use of them, in relation to where the needs are, where the crisis has affected those creators, those artists, those cultural actors. That is why it has to be feasible, and, logically, it has to be forward-looking. It was a plan on horseback between the eleventh and twelfth legislatures, and the great boulder to culture and creation has now been given. We need to establish clear, fundamentally economic lines in relation to recovery. In conclusion, there is something fundamental in relation to the plan, which is the importance of culture; it is on the front page, after the strategy, the objectives and characteristics of culture as a social issue. This is a social issue, it is a social crisis that affects culture, that is, that the plan should be accommodated. With regard to culture as a professional sector, it has affected many professionals, not only artists, creators or cultural actors, as we strictly understand it, but also a number of companies and services or infrastructure industries operating around it. The plan says that the cultural sector is a changing sector. Now more than ever, since it is not only in transformation – sometimes positive transformations – in the evolution of artistic and cultural characteristics. Now we have a negative transformation, so we have to overcome it. That is why I also recommend that the plan be re-released and that an approach be taken in relation to its own postulates, in order to recover some issues. Finally, the truth is that it's dramatic. We are not talking about theatre, it is dramatic the situations of many people of culture and companies, of professionals around so many initiatives of shows, concerts, performances, exhibitions, festivals, contests, involved all of them. I repeat, not only artists and creators, cultural actors, but a series of professionals of many characteristics. We must, of course, show solidarity with the world of culture at the worst time in decades. Of course, in that regard, we will support the agreement, we will join it. We insist: we urge the Government, in a verbal way, but taking advantage of this moment, when budgets are the essential instrument for such recovery or, at least, for minimizing damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u68	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Angulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u69	Culture, by its power of transformation, is one of the four pillars of development. He has accompanied us these months and without it the crisis would have been much worse. By the role that culture plays in our society, from Elkarrekin We believe that culture is an essential good and a right. In March, culture was the first industry to suffer the impact and will be the last to recover. The crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has had a devastating impact on the creative and cultural industry, which, after a decade lost, was once again raising its head last year, and what seemed to be the beginning of a recovery has been truncated by the arrival of the coronavirus. The second wave of the coronavirus is hitting society with force. Uncertainty about the future of the cultural sector is even worse than when the pandemic was declared. By day I give, when the summer season has passed and the performances have exhausted, thousands of creators and workers in the cultural sector have lost their livelihood. This sector is one of the most innovative, entrepreneurial and resilient. But in order to continue to create, producing works that this society needs so much, especially during this crisis, it is essential that the institutions assume their political responsibility as guarantors of the right to culture and bet firmly on it, because a work of art does not begin when the curtain rises, just as it does not end when the lights go out. Nobody escapes that, behind the artistic creation, there is a lot of time invested, there is work of weeks, months or years. Works of weeks, months or years are necessary to carry out a theatrical performance, a musical album, a dance work or a graphic representation. Infinity of artists have not been able to show their work by confinement, social distance or the limitations of leisure, which make most shows unviable. The audiovisual sector is also very affected by this crisis. And this crisis has greatly accelerated the times of digital transformation that have accentuated the problems of concentration, monopolization and dependence on foreign trading platforms and structures. It is estimated that over the three-month period, five years of digital advances have been concentrated, as all cultural production has been focused in this direction. This situation raises new questions: copyright, working conditions or economic viability in these digital spaces. Just as it is also not for us that in the twenty-first century there are few artists who work alone. Behind each creator there are illuminators, sound technicians, makeup artists, screenwriters, hairdressers, highly qualified professionals of multiple disciplines and specialties. With much knowledge and years of experience, they participate, together with the creator, in the production of the work. This huge group of people are the ones who help and manage to shape and give that solution to the ideas of the artist. Crafts related to the work of creators are a condition of possibility for most creations. When we talk about the cultural and recreational industries, we are not talking about a smaller industry. It is one of the sectors with the most projection in job creation and international projection. This set of creative and cultural industries has a very large economic and employment impact. We are talking about around 6,800 jobs and 760 million revenues, which represent between 3% and 5% of GDP. But, along with this economic and labour data, we are also talking about a highly precarious sector. Most artists are self-employed workers with a precarious legal status, who lack regular income and do not receive any remuneration for long periods of time, due to seasonality in much of the sector. The situation means that the amount of their social contributions does not reach a level sufficient to allow access to social security or retirement pensions, as well as to other types of social benefits. This precarious work does not occur alone when we talk about Euskadi. Unfortunately, this is a situation and a general norm in the world. It is true that solutions are not the same in all countries. Faced with the search for job stability in the rest of the work, which is what has been promoted since the Workers' Statute, in the case of the arts sector there is a peculiar circumstance: its high rate of temporality, the so-called intermittentness. This intermitency is a work peculiarity very present in the cultural sector, and as such is reflected in the legislation. Royal Decree 1435/1985 allows temporary recruitment as a preferential in artistic works. The rule itself does not guarantee the principle of labour stability, as does the Workers'Statute. That is why it is not uncommon for an artist, over a year of his working life, to go through different forms of contract. One of the most dramatic social consequences of the effects of the pandemic has been awareness of the fragility of the cultural sector. Despite the many measures taken to protect them over this time, it has become clear that there is a basic problem, which prevents all persons working for the sector from being covered by such aid. And it is that the main problem that we face so that the aid can reach all people has been that many women workers of the same have not been considered as such workers of the cultural sector, because they are not discharged under the corresponding heading or because they are not working at the time the pandemic arrived. Therefore, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we propose the creation of a register, both of artists and of the group of workers who, in one way or another, are linked to the cultural sector, and without which these events would not be possible. A Basque register of artists and related professions of voluntary secondment and periodic renewal will help regulate the sector from the base. The database we were proposing has a triple purpose. Firstly, for those who work in culture, it will be a place to shape their working lives and to have administrative support in the face of irregularities in their situation. Having fulfilled a number of requirements, their registration in this register may facilitate access to rights, such as social security coverage, unemployment, maternity leave or any other situation faced by their own insecurity. From the institution we must offer security and social protection. Secondly, it would be a very useful tool for administrations in order to know who make up the cultural landscape of Euskadi. This will make it much easier to identify needs, develop surveys or plan lines of action. Finally, it will also serve as a database for the cultural sector itself, which will link artists, technicians and programmers, applying the criteria they need. It will help them create synergies and as a source of information for their work, because in an increasingly specialized environment, as we find ourselves in, it is essential to have the right collaborators. Nor should we forget that this tool is one of the main complaints made in the Artist's Statute, as it is one of the most effective instruments that have been given for the job security of intermittent workers and to accredit social rights. In addition, it is an instrument with which other countries already count; we can put the example of France or a brotherly country that is Uruguay. The artistic and cultural world is a fragile social ecosystem, which is under permanent construction. Now is the time to strengthen the sector, to put the means in place so that the work of decades is not interrupted and disappears. This is the way to defend universal rights and participation in culture. In this time of absolute uncertainty, solidarity with the most disadvantaged cultural actors is essential. If we really want to transform and strengthen the cultural ecosystem, the right to culture must be defended and visible more than ever with facts, and not only with good intentions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u70	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. The president of the Misto, Mrs Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u71	Good morning. Talking about culture is always pleasant for the politician; it seems something intangible, something divine. Not in vain, the United Nations Organization calls the intangible heritage of humanity those cultural milestones that are, in their view, relevant to that totality that we are the 6.5 billion inhabitants of the planet. Talking about culture is comfortable. Some attach considerable importance to the idea and devote themselves to increasing the allocations to the Department of Culture. Others, in the ingenuity of ignorance, simply devote themselves to maintaining these structures so that they do not tell them that they "deprecate culture." The question is: what is culture? Of course, there is no single definition of the term. But, given the place where we are, there is a definition of Gustavo Bueno that would fit perfectly the case, the circumscribed culture, and that defined as follows: "A set of those cultural contents, theatre, music, dance, literature, cinema, folklore, which can be considered circumscribed, for the purposes of guardianship and promotion by institutions such as ministry or cultural councils." In this regard, the role of the Department of Culture is based on the promotion of a certain type of culture that is not always innocent. An idea where the creator has to adapt to the requirements of the Administration, an Administration whose political leaders start from specific interests and ideas, which through the above-mentioned Department of Culture try to impose on society. What do we propose from Vox? Given the reality of the COVID-19, we believe it is appropriate to undertake a profound reform of the Law of Sponsorship. A law that opens the framework of the artist's options and that puts no limit on them, the limits of the Administration to cultural creativity. Of course, we also share the need to provide extra aid to the sector, which has been interrupted, as has so many others. In conclusion, culture must cease to be a tool of nationalism and open the framework of cultural creation to civil society, through an ambitious sponsorship law. In turn, within the scope of the culture promoted, the contents must be aimed at promoting our common history, at uniting bridges between society. We cannot continue along the path of chryspation and division, for history has taught us on many occasions that union makes strength. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u72	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u73	Madame Chair, President, head of the department, good noon to all. During the last nine months of which we have been so long, we have discussed a hundred times the impact which our people have acquired upon the panedemmy. He turned it all upside down: economics, health, social conditions... We have spoken here of a thousand different subjects: with our health system, our industry, our other corporations, our employees who are in danger of being expelled... We are in front of a global pandemy, and its echoes are also global. And, of course, the cultural euscal system hasn't stopped outside this collision. After total rest in the first few months, the aphorto-relations came. Society is afraid of this uncertainty. And this, of course, has brought its consequences to the culture trade. There have been many, and not small, obstacles which have been exposed to cultural sectors. That's why my team wants to express his closeness to the entire cultural agent who's being damaged. Because what we bring to this House today is recognition of all the actors involved in the field of the cultural ecosystem. It is a sector that cannot be understood as if it were more of an economic activity. At least for my group, for socialists, culture and its environment are a key element in the configuration and social cohesion of a community. Culture is a key issue that concerns and concerns society as a whole. An activity that, in one way or another, affects the lives of all people. It is from this global and holistic vision of culture from which we must establish the debate on cultural policies, both structural and cyclical, that the sector needs and demands us. After the first moments of dismay, the Basque Government, like the rest of the institutions, began to work on all the necessary measures to alleviate the impact of the economic crisis that began to dawn after the health crisis. Let us begin by talking about the short-term measures that have been implemented and on which, without a doubt, we will have to continue working and on which we will have to continue to talk in this House. There are many occasions when Parliament's majority consensus on the need to take rapid and far-reaching measures to alleviate the impact of this severe crisis has been highlighted. This has also been and is a concern repeatedly expressed by the Councillor for Culture and Linguistic Policy. At this same parliamentary seat you have had the opportunity to refer to this in response to a number of questions. We have been informed of the ongoing relationship with representatives of the sector, of the advisory service, on which I would like to reflect briefly afterwards, of the evaluation carried out by the Basque Observatory for Culture to assess the impact of this crisis, of the specific measures for economic aid to professionals in the sector. I do not want to go in here to repeat what has already been said at this headquarters by the adviser, the data is collected in the session log and I refer to them. Then we can't say that you're not doing anything or that you're not doing anything. It is true that we were all lost in the first few days; no one expected it. "Mingerry started working from the first minute, by the sector representatives. Every moment the Cultor has been in contact with all the institutions; we cannot forget, for instance, the swift and strong measures imposed by the aldunities. The Spanish Government has also been there since the first moment. The sector hasn't been alone. In addition to the strong momentum of the Government, to which I have already referred, we cannot forget initiatives such as that of the Álava Parliament, with intense programming that has kept culture alive in that historical territory, or that of Gipuzkoa, injecting 4 million euros through its Piztu Kultura programme. There has also been a battery of aid from the Government of Spain. In this respect, I would like to recall that, between the aid for the modernisation and innovation of the cultural industries and the aid for action and cultural promotion, both promoted by the Ministry of Culture and Sport, the Basque cultural sector has received €332,856. But yesterday we knew that the National Institute of Performing Arts and Music, which is also a body under this same Ministry of Culture and Sport, has granted more than 2 million euros in extraordinary aid to different theatre, dance, lyric, music and circus companies in Euskadi to deal with this pandemic. The different Basque companies dedicated to these disciplines have managed to attract a million euros in Bizkaia, 900,000 euros in Gipuzkoa and around 250,000 euros in Araba. Oh yes, zalantzarik gabe, koiunturalen bidea neurons. Bertan jarraitu beharko dugu krisiaren talka gogorrena passes art, behintzat. Bizi garan egoera aldakor honetan beharrezkoa izango da gure strategy age weretzunak Moldatzen joatea. COVID-19aren mehatxua geure artean dagoen bitartean, erne egon beharko gara, éta agertzen diren guztietik ahalik éta azkarren ikasi beharko dugu. No one can stay behind. We need to be constantly vigilant, learning quickly about all the incidents that are emerging along the way, and we ask the Government and the other institutions to do so by the groups that have signed this transaction: to regularly adapt the criteria, conditions and obligations of aid to the evolution and duration of the pandemic. Let's be active, but also reactive. But I believe that this debate would be poor if we did not advance in it the most necessary structural measures that have emerged in the wake of this crisis. The COVID-19 has put the magnifying glass in structural cracks that, to a large extent, already existed before the pandemic. It is important that, also in the case of culture, we be able to look for the transformative opportunity that opens up to us. The main priority must be the professionalisation of the sector. There is a need to strengthen the cultural ecosystem at those weakest points. A year ago, the Government of Spain began the first steps towards the creation of the Artist's Statute. Let us also get on that train and make Euskadi a pioneer laboratory in this matter. The Councillor for Culture has put the glove on this Parliament on several occasions. Of course, my group's commitment is firm and we will work to ensure that, in a consensual and agreed manner with the sector, as soon as possible, that Artist's Statute is a reality. The professionalization of the sector is a crucial step. Following the steps of the Spanish government, let's go up to the State train of the artist. It is absolutely necessary that the sector should offer a proper solid blanket. Let us make, even in the web of culture, one of the characteristics of our national personality, agreement and agreement. Another important structural measure is coordination between all relevant institutions. This is also not new, and the Government is aware of that need. It is necessary to revitalize the Basque Council of Culture, to define the most effective way of generating the much-needed synergies between the Government, the parliaments and the municipalities, but also with the Government of Spain and the European Union. In the transactional we also urge the Government, in collaboration with the other institutions and the sector, to promote projects linked to industry and the cultural network capable of raising European funds to revitalize cultural activity. But not only to listen, also to form, accompany and advise. The road to professionalization will require an effort on all sides. But the sector cannot be seen alone, the institutions must accompany it, advise it. The adviser told us about the experience of the advice provided by the Basque Government and that, in the light of the data he gave us, it has been well received by the sector. Let us also learn here from similar experiences of accompaniment and advice that are also being driven from the parliaments. Thus, for example, the K boulegoa promoted by the Gipuzkoa Diputation: a team that accompanies in the creation processes and that provides the information necessary for the management of the procedures of cultural projects, with the fundamental objective of favoring the sustainability of the same and the optimal professionalization of the sector. Culture is the most precious treasure of our people. Let's take care of him, then, as he deserves. Culturators can't live in precity. Let us make war against the hinges we have before us, with ambition: the first, first of all, the cirripedes, to extract from the crisis which followed the pandemia, but without losing from a point of view the challenges which the sector must exceed in half and a long period. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u74	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u75	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Congressmans, chief physician and Mr. President, good morning. As far as we have been presenting corrections to the average law, I believe that the field of discussion has spread and spread. The state of artists has appeared, the mezenastism, the main line of our intervention will be that of the state which culture lives in this district of pandemy, and of the measures we must take. The fact is that covida had kept us in the house for weeks, and, well, when we left the settlement, culture and all the other parts of society were very limited. Before that, in a formal way, what did the Government do? Three main measures. On the one hand he built a security protocol, a security protocol that was operational on the 1st of April, with a compatible security and cultural equipment. This government's wager was never to close the shutters after the settlement, because health and economy are two aspects of the same thing. The second place is to keep the budget, and then to bet on keeping the public. Europe has gone from other crisis by means of reduction, and the waves which came from Europe. I think the European main guide at the exit of this crisis must be faced with the investment, and, in this case, that new solution will be favorable to the sphere of culture, won't it? And thirdly, there's a matter of right scholarships. There were two rows of scholarships, one devoted to the micropyms and the other to the creators or professionals. It's true that we've discovered some of the deficiencies of the same system, or that the government has found them. And when I say the system, I do not only refer to administrative procedures. It has been stated here that the interference of industry, the immigration of manufactures, the intermixture of manufactures, and the weakness of some industrial organizations, are, however, to be said to be either sent or directed by those subsidies which have not been given, or which have not been executed; cinema, Durango's market, digitalization, etc. So that money will be transferred to another place, but always within the limits of culture. What artists want is to work. It is not, of course, living from subsidies and not living from institutional declarations that do not feed. Therefore, the initial reaction of the Government was to make that economy compatible with health, in that scheme a little simplistic of health, money and love, which are the three pillars of life. And what was tried to do from the beginning was to get out of that meaningless dichotomy that – in this case allows me the criticism, although we are defending an agreement – established EH Bildu, to make exclusive bets between health and economy. The three facets of life have been brought together and I believe that it has been the main bet, beyond the ad hoc or short-term aid, the bet that really needs to be put in value today. That was one of the major political mistakes, in our view, that was experienced during the pandemic. And, to finish with money, we'll talk about European funds. Well, the consideration which can be given to the sphere of culture is also offered to the rest of the field, or to the rest of the departments: we have our business, we have our resources, because the people are rich. The funds are coming. The government's working to present projects, but if the funds come, they'll push the project. But otherwise we will face this plan of 2019-2022 Cultural, which Mr. Barrio has mentioned. Mrs. Martinez was commenting on the theme of patronage. It is good for me, because Mr Zupiria himself, at the first appearance in this House, in the Committee on Culture, mentioned that he was going to undertake coordination work. You know that the ultimate key to taxation is to the parliaments and that you were going to undertake a work of harmonization, coordination, reflection together with the parliaments in order to make sponsorship in Basque more attractive. And Podemos has mentioned the State of Arters. Well, that's what Mr. Zupiria said. He said that he had tried in the Senate two years ago that there was a lack of regulations and regulations, and he made it his purpose to develop this state of state in this legislation. So these two issues are not in our middle-town, but the government will develop them. Because he'd already made a restraining proposal two weeks ago. At last, at the beginning of spring, we said before that Esscal was in a flowering culture. And in the spring of the flowers, the COVID has arrived and our garden has been patified, but we are convinced that the flower will continue for three principal reasons. First of all, because the talent is among us. COVIDA has beaten all the highly developed countries in the same manner, so the talent remains with us, and has not gone out. Second, because the main lines, including strategic plans, Mr. Barrio, are still active because they are of the same value. I think it's a challenge to reinvent these culture plans, yes, but keep them. And thirdly, the third reason would be that we have a terrible desire to get out of this accursed darkness, because society thirsts for culture and normality. So Escal culture will flourish again. This is the stake the Government makes, and the impression that we have, because the stake for culture is a share in public institutions and society. I want to thank Mr. Estarrona and Mr. Alonsus for the agreement he made. And I invited you: If the budgets are coming, you can influence them and come over to the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u76	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. The response shift. Would anyone like to take the word?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u77	End of discussion, we'll vote for EH, the Euskal Socialists, and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eucalists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 73; the opposites 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-11-19.u78	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. I'm trying to tell you that next time the congressman will welcome the Basque War. We're all invited. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and thirty.
