ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the check plone. First of all, I warn you that the point in the subject list is left or retired to another point. First point in theme list: "To question," he said, "whether Josephba Díez Achus, the lawmate of the Society, made for the head physician of equality, Justice, and Society, with the options of evading the Basques of the Valley of Cuelgamouros." Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, all good days. The valley of Cuelgamurose has been a dark stain in democratic history, and it remains. Such a mausoleum would be inconceivable in any other democratic State of the European Union for a dictator. The relatives of those who lost the war have a right to continue. To these families it is owing that the concept of truth, confession, reconnaissance, and impecunity of justice, which we have always maintained in our group. And that progress won't be possible until the people who are buried in it are out of it, if the families always insist on it. We know that there have been so many families who have requested to remove their relations from the valley of Cuelgamurose. But this right has been violated for years. The PP government has not only ignored what families have asked for in years, but what they said in court. And we, in the Eural Party, have always thought that this attitude is unacceptable to human rights. Fortunately, new times have arrived, more hopeful than the others. And the corpses of François dictator came out of it in 2019. October 24th. Many of the new families were encouraged to proclaim this right at the same time. In recent weeks we have had the opportunity to know the fact that several Basque families have begun to receive, by letter, the recognition of the right to exhumation of the remains of their loved ones. This is undoubtedly great news, which we receive with joy. It is a very important step forward, which we celebrate. And yet we must understand that there are still uncertainties to be resolved, doubts to be clarified and many steps to be taken, a path to be followed. And we understand that this path must be taken as soon as possible, because we cannot avoid that many of these family members are of an advanced age, and that, after long waiting, too long waiting, of having demonstrated a patience that must be valued, and that we, from our group, want to value, they no longer have time or strength to keep waiting patiently. And that's why, Sailburu, so we would like to know what additional information the Basque Government has, what is the relationship between the department and both the state government and the families themselves, and how the Basque Gogora Memory Institute is working to help these families exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Díez. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u3	Madame President, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. In the Cuelgamuros Valley there are more than 1,300 buried Basques who were transferred from Euskadi and other parts of the peninsula. Three hundred Basques were taken unidentified. In the Valley of the Fallen there are in total more than 33,000 human remains. In most cases, the Franco regime did not have the consent of their families. It's been a lot of decades. In 2020, thousands of families couldn't recover their friend who disappeared in civil war. In 2020, thousands of families have not yet been able to restrain this painful sorrow. Some families still seek and recover those who love them, to greet them with the love and dignity they deserve. Some of these war missing persons are buried in the Valley of the Fallen. 23 Basque families have started the procedures to request exhumation and recover the remains of the relatives taken in the 1950s to Cuelgamuros. Gogora has advised and accompanied this twenty families throughout this arduous process. To this day, we know that about twenty have obtained the certificate of recognition of their right to exhumation. Of a total of 54 applications that have completed the process and obtained recognition throughout the State, 20 are Basque families. And this proportion gives us the measure of the support they have received from the Basque Government to carry out the efforts; first, to ensure that their family member was buried in the valley and then to request their exhumation. At the moment, we know that the State Secretariat of Historical Memory is designing the imminent entry of forensic teams into the crypts. Technical teams will study the feasibility of exhuming each of the 54 human remains requested. We also know where the 20 Basque cases are located. We have informed them directly of the next steps, which we trust will be taken shortly. And from Gogora we remain in constant contact with families. This same week, we had a meeting with all these families. I could see them hoping. They want to end with so much uncertainty. I understood your feelings. Hobeto ulertu nuen haiek bereskuratzeko irrika. Urte hauetan guztietan eskaini ezin izan dieten hylobia eta agurra emateko irrika dute. Much of them are also willing to share their experiences to encourage other families to request more exhumations. It's a matter of justice. Haien nahia betebehar institutional da, eta hala hartzen du bere gain Eusko Jaurlaritzak, bere osotasunean. Family of guztia lagunduko diegu prozesua amoit art. Its desire is an institutional duty and is thus assumed by the Basque Government in its entirety. We will accompany all families until the end of the process. We will also try to reconstruct the stories of those young people who saw their life plans truncated by that unjust war. The next step will be the collection of DNA samples from the closest and most appropriate family members for genetic collations. We have offered to extract their DNA samples, which will be collected from Gogora's DNA bank. All this information has also been shared with the Gogora Board of Directors. We know it's not gonna be easy. There is no need to generate false expectations. The process is very complex, but we have to have hope. In some cases it may not be possible because of the poor condition of the crypts and boxes, or because of the impossibility of identification. However, it is worth it. The Basque Government, through Gogora, has been, is and will always be accompanying family members in this process. And it's not about reopening wounds; we're trying to restore dignity...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the Congressman of the World of Maddalens, against the Pandemia." Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. The last day we've met the measures taken by LABI. I told you in the middle of October that it was necessary to take strict measures in front of the serious situation we lived in, and that we were ready to do it reproachfully if they were shared. Nevertheless, in front of the first measures we had taken, we publicly made a public show of entire protection. It was October 23rd. Since then, Mr. Urkullu, when we had a chance to be together, I told you it was a disappointment to have to know the decisions on television. And today it's the same for me. I thought you understood my message, and I even told you what it meant. I told you about people. But things have not changed, and the question is, that before the measurements of the day before yesterday we form questions and doubts, we do not know what the criteria are, and we must make use of this check. To leave, I'd like to ask you what your opinion is about the sanitary situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u7	Good morning, Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days to all. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is still serious. On the 19th of August, we decadentd the emergency of health, and we're still in that condition. Therefore we must all carry out our measures with severity and reproach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u9	Yes, the facts are very serious. The facts of today show that the goals of fun haven't been filled because we haven't come down from 300, 100,000 people. But despite the fall, I don't think it's the most important thing. I think we have very important facts in our hands, if the data is entirely corrected. By the way, I'm going to tell you that I thought the communication of your data was serious to make con festivald y decampado. If it's a mistake. As you said, it's a mistake, and it's not a media interpretation. And I'd say more: It's a very serious mistake. The point is, we didn't get ahead of the virus. El edice de positivida est ala entre el 5,2 e 7% en un total de 20 días, lejos de lo que recomida la OMS para Europe. In the world, we are in first places at the rate of death, unfortunately, and, among the communities of the Spanish State, we have had the highest independence in the last two weeks. It is therefore necessary that things should be done better, and that the criteria should be rightly understood. And it seems to me that we do not recommend objective data to blurry. I'm quite surprised to hear Mrs. Merll listen to me on the same day, half of the cases they're here, and then you're listening to me. Neurriak hartu, inbertsi publikoaren bidez sektore kaltetuak babestu eta osasuna indartu behar da. Because it is not enough to call for citizen responsibility, which the vast majority have demonstrated to a great extent; it is necessary to offer people a clear framework, clear figures and clear intentions. It cannot be that the data which Europe considers to be extremely risky here are given almost for good. It cannot be that restrictions or their lifting are adopted without clear criteria – or criteria that we do not know – or established beforehand. This cannot be, nor can it depend on the calendar, the Christmas calendar, the Holy Week, the holidays and the temporary interests of the Government. This government has decided to underestimate the introduction of opposition; it is what I ask, at least, not to underestimate the scientific community of Basques. Y, si tampoco la van a tener en cuenta, le proponum los criteriums del Centro Europeo del Chéfermedades en cuanto a la de caso, incidencias, positividad. Yesterday, the decision we made with agreement could be given us that way, as I have often said. As a country, we cannot accept the number of deaths we have suffered. As a people, we must be ready to face a third wave. And we all care, yes. I asked the people for individual responsibility, collective, communal, national ethics, and I told you. But I ask the Administration to be careful, to use transparency, to have clear criteria, and, in short, to manage with great care this highly interesting situation in our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the virus is still among us. And once we've done a lot of effort to stop the human team's expansion or the communal transmission, we're getting results, Mrs. Iriart. The whole society is making a tremendous effort. This is why we have stopped ascending tendency, and we must now gradually continue to descend that tendency. Anyway, it's still a serious situation, as I said before. The leak index is high, even the supply level of hospitals or ZIUs. In consequence of all this, even the rate of death is still high. And so I repeat, that we must fulfil our measures with strict and responsibilities, and I have already said it. The health department and Osarides publish all the information with all transparency. In LABI, based on the resolutions given by his technical committee, based on his resolutions, we report the decisions agreed on by the institutions. The health department comes every week to report to the legislature and answer the questions of the legislative groups. That's our attitude. We have admitted with all humility that we have not hitherto seen, even now, the EFTAC, in order to face the virus with scientific certainty must be seen in the world. The judgments we receive are based on the suggestions of the health authorities. We cultivate agreements in LABI, and even in our relations with the Spanish government or other societies, and according to the recommendations of the health organizations of the world. We present the decisions we've made with complete transparency. As far as transparency is concerned, I don't know whether what you've just mentioned is related to the IE data or to ours. Mrs Iriarte, the situation is improving, but we must maintain individual and collective responsibility. The third report of the second epidemic wave of the Department of Health points out, literally, that the measures taken since mid-October have had the effect of a change in the upward trend. The situation is of a downward trend in the cumulative incidence rate, with the expectation that this incidence and that this trend will continue to be more cushioned. We already know that, if it were for you, we would continue since March in total house confinement. Mrs Iriarte, rigour and responsibility for a global and lethal virus. The question is, what can I bring? How can I improve this situation? We already know that for you, too, the blame for a pandemic lies with the Basque Government and the lehendakari. In any case, we have the channels to put forward the proposals, Mrs Iriarte. Let us act positively, instead of promoting sterile discussions that do not bring anything. The health department and the Osata are for months developing a search plan for contacts and infections and increasing the number of test tests that have been made. Society is making a tremendous effort. All that thanks to the fact that we're avoiding the communal transmission of virus. The object of all is not to be returned to confession, and to prevent health imprisonment. The object of all is to guarantee public health and the welfare of people. The continual discussion is prejudicial to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: The question is, that of the members of the American Socialists, Lorenzo of the Basque Socialists, to the planetal Plantion of the Earth, Housing, and the chief department of Transport, with the contract of the Mirancoke-Easis in Topo's Donostia. " Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. The St. Francis subway is in the character of the Social Party. President Patxi López made the project work in the government. It's a project that's becoming true, an extra project for the guitar, a project that's indispensable for mobiles. It is a strategic project for Gipuzkoa the Metro of Donostialdea, managed today, as at its origin, by the advisor Arriola. A project of undoubted social benefits and profitability, both social and economic, and in other respects. Economic profitability because it is a means that is also sustainable in terms of cost/benefit economic parameters. It has urbanistic profitability because it will enable regeneration of many spaces and that pedestrians gain space in front of the vehicle. It is sustainable as long as it will reduce noise in our streets; it will also reduce CO emissions 2 and will allow fewer private vehicles to pass through the streets of Donostialdea. It is an efficient and reliable means for its speed and punctuality. It is an accessible means of transport, because those who have certain difficulties will be able to have full access to a means of transport that they do not have in other means. It's a safe environment, because it's the least-accidented environment, and it's also the safest environment because it makes it possible for users to travel at night with much greater security. It is a flexible medium, because it allows to modulate times and frequencies. It is a means that will also allow to adapt mobility, and a means of public transport to events that take place in the capital of the territory. It is a means that has undoubtedly social profitability for workers and students who go to their workplaces or to the university to carry out their corresponding studies. It is a means that will affect the mobility of more than 60% of the Gipuzcoan population. Like any major project, it is a project which, of course, also presents difficulties; we have had them during the development of its works. That is why I ask you today, Mr Arriola, in what state is the termination of the Miraconcha-Easo contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u14	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Andueza, replying directly to your question, I can tell you that yesterday an agreement was concluded between ETS and the Miraconcha-Easo Temporary Union of Enterprises for the termination of the contract of construction of this section of the variant of the Top of Donostia-San Sebastián. This measure, as I have had occasion to explain at other times in this House, was legally bound by the need to deal with the geological problems that appeared at two specific points in the tunnel that is being dug between the future stations of Easo and Miraconcha. The constructive solutions to be applied in the subsoil were not covered by the original project, which was submitted to the competition, and also entailed a substantial increase in the budget. That is why the legal report, commissioned by ETS, in raising this issue, concludes that the Public Sector Contracts Act does not consider it feasible to modify the contract awarded to include the necessary constructive solutions, taking into account its entity and its cost. In addition, this report adds that it is appropriate to resolve the contract in respect of those construction units of the project that cannot be executed as a result of the geotechnical incidents detected from 4 June onwards. Well, in the open negotiation between ETS and the UTE, an agreement has been reached for the resolution of the contract in the part of the work affected by these geological problems, and also for the continuation of it in two very specific areas: the maintenance and safety of the already excavated galleries and the development of the surface works, in order to meet the deadlines and minimize the affections to the citizen. According to this agreement, which also provides for the payment of the loss of profit of 3 % of the amount of the works not executed, and without prejudice to the fact that the UTE can make a property claim on some aspect, the works already executed, on the basis of the original contract and the modified ones approved on 30 November, are valued at 31.8 million euros, and the works that the contract will continue to perform are estimated at 3.6 million euros; in total, 35,383,960 euros. What do these jobs consist of? Basically, in the structural coating with concrete of the already excavated cavities and in the continuation of the work of consolidation and auscultation of the subsoil in order to prevent possible incidences in the area, and, moreover, in ensuring the completion within the expected time of the surface works, which affect the road and pedestrian traffic. In addition, the contract will continue with the execution of the work provided for in the two emergency files approved in this work. At the same time, a new reformed project has been developed that defines the new work that needs to be undertaken on the stretch to solve the geological problems that have arisen. We maintain our commitment to tender it before the end of this month, so that the project can be awarded by the end of May next. The details of this project and the amount for which it will be tendered are currently being finalized. But I would like to remind you that the Miraconcha-Easo tranche was originally budgeted by ETS technicians at EUR 71 million, which, together with its award price, the amount of the two modifications and the two emergency actions approved during its implementation, the project already had a committed cost of EUR 70.8 million.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u16	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, "The lawmate of the Podemos IU team made to the president about killing 2020 budget." Ma'am, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Urkullu, President, you have often mentioned the plan for your government, but in the course of 20 days missing for the end of the year, we know very little about the amount of the budget we had for the year. Therefore, my question to-day is this: What has your government done to fulfill our budget agreement for 2020 years?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u18	Thank you, madam. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatage, on November 6th, we had a meeting. We both agreed that this year of the palace has been unusual, including the budget management. At the meeting, I had a clear commitment to re-entering the running projects and include them in the budgets of 2021. As for information, from another point of view, it was a transparent hiccup. In all, we have received 18 petitions from your parliamentary corps, and have all answered, the last was sent the day before yesterday. Therefore, having known the peculiar state we live in, and accepting all the conditions we have been under, we have fulfilled our engagements, or made a vow to fulfil them next year. That's how I taught you and told you, even in a meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Ma'am, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u21	Well, then, I would like to do a memory exercise and also share with the rest of the parliamentary groups and also with the general public a game of cat and mouse that we have been subjected to by the government in these responses. We have been – it is true – since 9 October asking written questions about the programmes and the items committed to that agreement. The first thing we did was ask about the policies of prevention of the machista violence, worried as we were about the evolution of them during the pandemic. There were 11 questions; of them, 10 of the answers began in the same way – the quotes are opened –: "The implementation of the budget for the 2020 financial year as conceived in 2019 will be difficult", and almost half ended with this other euphemism: "It is difficult to make a real and objective assessment in such an unusual scenario". Was it really impossible, for example, to train the corps of officials in the prevention of sexist violence even if it was telematically? On other occasions, we have asked other questions, and we have been given incomplete answers, and we have had to ask the Bureau, which has granted us, to be able to receive a dignified answer and to know, for example, that only two companies have finally benefited from the Ezten funds. It is true; yesterday – not before yesterday – yesterday, at 6 p.m., we received the answers to two very specific questions concerning the degree of compliance with the budget agreement. It is a response that contains numerous files, numerous links, numerous pages, and that, logically, we have not been able to study thoroughly, although at first glance it seems that it can be concluded that there are breaches and diversions of funds, and also some compliance. But, of course, we asked these questions on 23 October. On 23 October the deadline expired, and we were asked for an extension, and this extension, the deadline for this extension, was yesterday, and it was yesterday afternoon when we received the reply. This isn't serious. We believe that the degree of obscurantism and lack of information from his Government are unsustainable. And they handle the times, they handle the information, and we see it, among other things, in the delay to inform us about the degree of non-compliance with the agreement. The basis of an agreement is based on respect and mutual collaboration, and it gives the impression that you confuse too often collaboration with subordination, and agreement with blank cheque. Let us study the answers thoroughly. We haven't done it yet. We're going to study thoroughly, and we'll see what information you bring us. In any case, I would like to tell you that it turns out... that it makes it very difficult for us with this procedure to be able to collaborate and reach agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u22	Thank you, madam. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gorrotxategi, you will agree with me that, in a year like the present, although you did not participate in the vote on the budgets for this year, it is difficult to implement the budgets as they were presented and approved last December. In any event, the Government has reasonably fulfilled the commitments: an increase of 4 % in GIR, a renewal of aid to municipalities for energy sustainability plans, an increase in allocations to the Haurreskolak Consortium and the UNED centres in Euskadi, an extension of the Ezten venture capital fund, an increase in programmes to support equality and against male violence. In the environmental field, we have also complied with what we have signed. This is – and I reiterate what is being insisted on in recent hours – no further requests for gas exploration will be granted, and the budget allocation of €733,000 will be abolished for Shesa for new research projects. And this commitment is fulfilled. At the meeting we had, I showed him the document on the follow-up to the agreement, and indeed there are still outstanding issues. Since March, we've been in a covid year, and we've had to reassign matches. The social nature of the 2020 budgets has been strengthened, precisely. A total of 940 million is planned to prioritize essential health, education and social protection services. And this social priority will be reinforced in 2021. I reiterate that we have committed ourselves before you and publicly to continue the commitments made and their fulfilment in 2021, a year in which we hope to lower the pressure of the direct condition of the coronavirus. In addition, the parties to which we belong, Mrs Gorrotxategi, have managed to bring forward positions and reach a broad cross-cutting agreement for the approval of the Spanish Government's budgets by 2021. We have been aware that the difficulties we face require prioritizing agreements and uniting forces. We also overcome the process of reaching agreement on minimum living income, which is still pending transfer. I do not see, Mrs Gorrotxategi, any fundamental reason which prevents the re-editing of an agreement which is benefiting Basque society, which the Basque Government is complying with and which offers security to people at such a delicate and difficult time. It is true that public accounts in Euskadi are guaranteed with the absolute majority of the parties that make up the Government. Still, we have shown our willingness to enrich them with the help of the opposition. This is our will, and you know it first hand: with respect, with dialogue, with will. I am convinced that we will be able to move from the stage of staging, proposals or protests to the most effective of the materialization of agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "To ask, as Charles Iturgai, the popular Group Angulo Euscal, a member of the Ciudadans made for the president, commitments to the social and economic consequences of COVID-19." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, good morning. In the last few hours, Lehendakari, his Government's contagion has been confirmed with the Government of his partner, Mr Sánchez; the contagion in its worst ways and ways. I'm talking, I'm talking about falsehood and mistakes in relation to the pandemic. We needed a photo to make decisions about Christmas, but it turned out to be a moving photo, a photo that challenges the credibility of his government. If the government of his partner, Mr Sánchez, lies in the total number of dead in Spain – yesterday we saw as for Sánchez one in three dead does not exist – his government, nothing more and nothing less, gives us deviations of 50% in hospital income. Of course, computer errors, according to you, and without anyone assuming political responsibility. And I'm telling you that you can't treat the sick as computer errors, because that would be zero in empathy. And the truth is that the present truth remains painful. It's true. Mrs. Sagardui was saying that, with good reason. "Today's photography is similar to that of when we started taking action," he said. After many weeks, we have not gone to worse, but we have only managed to return to the alarming starting point. And the consequence is the prolongation of restrictive measures, of which I have no doubt, but which involve taking other decisions. Because, lehendakari, in these circumstances, the Christmas campaign will be half gas for trade, and, without dinners, without bars, with terraces in winter, the hospitality will be much less than half gas. Different sectors have clearly said this. And the hoteliers have rebelled against the closure of the bars, or manifest themselves because they need more help and less restrictions. And they feel unfairly pointed out as responsible for the evolution of the pandemic. As the general secretary of the Gipuzcoan hoteliers categorically said yesterday – you would read it, Mr Lehendakari – said to him: "If you think that with this candy we are happy, you are wrong". You can't be any clearer. There is therefore confusion in our social and economic sectors. But the bad news is that the Basque Government is contributing to this confusion. I therefore ask you: what concrete commitments will be incorporated into these budgets and with what sectors of activity? And, in particular, lehendakari, do you undertake to incorporate into the budget the 200 million rescue plan for the hospitality we have been demanding for months from the People's and Citizens' Party?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, earlier I also referred in a question to the attempt to avoid any area of friction using the pandemic as an excuse, and I will continue to defend it. Look, Mr. Iturbia, I introduced the criteria of the next year's budget at our meeting on November 3rd. And economic instructions define the orientation of public resources: on the one hand, to guarantee essential services-sunity, education, and social protection-and, on the other hand, to promote economic and social modification in order to overcome the situation we live in. We've highlighted six of them: the social policy, the digital transformation, the transformation of energy, the economic recovery, the accelerated employment of quality, and the increase of equality. The government programme and its programme, that of the People's Party of Citizens, point to a clear convergence in the objective of sustaining employment, combating precariousness and temporaryity, supporting enterprise and entrepreneurs, reactivating the economy and re-establishing the unemployment rate below 10%. We therefore have a certain room for the agreement, Mr Iturgaiz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u29	I told him in the investiture debate: to save lives, to regenerate employment, to help in the economy, he will always have the People's and Citizens' Party. There will be other red lines, other black lines between us. But, lehendakari, I believe that, apart from the political and ideological differences, I believe that decisions must be made. And I think it would be very important, indeed, for you to rectify in some matters; to rectify, for example, as you corrected with the subject of coffee. Why do restaurants and bars have to be closed at eight o'clock in the afternoon being a comparative aggravation, having a comparative aggravation with shops or large areas, which close at nine o'clock? Correct. It's wise to correct it in time. Why can't you also close that hotel shop at 9:00 p.m.? Because that would help him. That's making a country. That's helping the sectors. That is what we ask and demand from the People's and Citizens' Party. And I insist: it is not a matter of which we agree, it is not a question of ideology, neither of the right nor of the left; it is of rationality. And rationality also means that there are no injuries compared to that sector, that sector that is having a bad time, that also needs that time. Some will say: an hour what are you going to do? An hour can do a lot. The hoteliers themselves are saying so. I also say to you that, in the same way as in trade, we are going to ask for aid for the self-employed. We're going to ask you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u30	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Your time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, I do not know whether the concerns you have here are the same as those you have in the autonomous communities in which you preside over the governments in which you govern. In any case, I am going to go to the substance of what was the original question, because I have not found the original question in what were their two exhibitions, at all. I share with you that budgets are an excellent opportunity to prioritize and apply resources where they are most lacking, where they can save lives and jobs, taking advantage of our fiscal-financial capacity. Indeed, the criteria for Budget 2021 are defined in that regard. First, to ensure fiscal stability and the disposal of extraordinary resources already agreed in the Joint Committee on the Concert: deficit of 2,2 % and debt of 16,9 %. Secondly, to incorporate the extraordinary aid that they have incurred and will incur multiannual spending commitments over the course of 2020 for the necessary measures, depending on the evolution of the pandemic or the economic situation. Some priorities to be maintained in Budget 2021 are based on extraordinary aid, approved this year, as they have been – and I reiterate what was stated in the previous session, precisely in response to you – on the one hand, extraordinary resources for the Department of Health and Osakidetza (490 million), education (140 million) and social protection (107 million). On the other hand, an additional 166 million aid for the economic sectors most affected by the crisis, and a financing line of 1 billion, through Elkargi, for businesses. Today, the amount approved is already 736 million, and 264 million are pending award. In addition, yesterday we unanimously approved in this Parliament the improvement of the conditions for these loans to businesses, a new programme of financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises, individuals, businesses or self-employed professionals, also extending the period of deficiency and also the period of reinstatement. On Tuesday you will see that we have a certain space for the agreement, because we are going to maintain the covid shock plan, the business financing line, the extraordinary resources for essential services and support for the economic sectors most affected by the crisis (small and medium-sized enterprises, trade, hospitality, self-employment), also taking into account what was approved yesterday: creating a specific financial support line for certain sectors most punished as a result of the pandemic or the COVID-19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, " concerning the measures taken by the Council of Venice for the Constitution of each country by the Parliament of the Greysia Martini, a member of the Misto group, "that all referendums must be a guarantee to the President of the Constitution of each country." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u33	Madam President, Mr Lehendakari, counselors, good morning to all and everyone. Since Vox, we are interested in knowing its position as lehendakari regarding the new guidelines on the holding of revised referendums on 7 October 2020 in the Council of Democratic Elections at its 69th meeting and adopted on 8 and 9 October by the European Commission for Democracy through Law, i.e. the Venice Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u34	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, look, I appreciate that the Venice Commission responds to what is a general trend in Europe, because regions, cities, peoples or nations without a state are calling for greater recognition and participation. We are proposing a structure based on the principle of subsidiarity, allowing for a division of powers and also of sovereignty, which must not necessarily be in the form of independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u37	Mr Urkullu, there are several occasions when we have heard your party talk about the need for a referendum to resolve the issue of sovereignty and self-determination. You were also the person responsible for managing and mediating in the face of the Catalan crisis of early October 2017, with that illegal plebiscite that, far from solving anything, divided and fractured Catalan society – hopefully not forever. The above-mentioned agreement of the Venice Commission, in paragraph 3.1, speaks in particular of the substantive validity of the texts submitted to a referendum. In this regard, the document states: "They must not be contrary to international law, to the statutory principles of the Council of Europe (democracy, human rights and the rule of law) or to the conditions of membership of the Council of Europe. States may add other limitations." As you can see, Europe takes a clear stand for the Spanish Constitution and makes it clear that all referendums must adhere to that legal framework, all within the Constitution, nothing but it. It is the States that must set the pace. We cannot be part-time Europeans, or worse: we cannot be Europeans for one thing and not for another. In September 2017, days before the Catalan spurt, you said, "This referendum has no guarantees," but you said, "A solution must be sought by trying to incorporate models like Canada-Quebec, UK-Scotland." This agreement, however, certifies the priority of the Constitution; in particular, if we speak of self-determination, of Article 1.2, which we were discussing yesterday in this House. In turn, "National sovereignty resides in the Spanish people". Many times we have heard the PNV say "We will see you in Europe", when there have been rubble with the Government of Spain. Well, Europe has spoken and said what it has said. We understand, in line with your Europeanism, that it is to be expected that they will renounce this model of referendums incompatible with the Spanish Constitution and with the agreement reached in the Venice Commission. Will they really do this or will they continue to insist on formulas not endorsed by Europe? In Vox, we see that those plebiscite formulas that have put so much effort to use in order to give cover to projects that are deeply anti-democratic and contrary to the interests of the Spaniards have ended up falling by their own weight. Democracy demands rigour in forms and method; not everything has room. Precisely, the virtue of the democratic regime is respect for the institutions and the established legal frameworks. As I say, the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe states that it is not possible, that is, it is illegal to convene a referendum in cases not permitted by the constitution of the country in which it is to be held. Having said that, will they abandon referendums as a tool to cover unconstitutionalist proposals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u38	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Martinez, being European... Look, this Wednesday, in my meeting with the European ambassadors and ambassadors, I recalled the need to convene the Conference on the Future of Europe, which serves, among other objectives, to enable genuine multi-level governance with regions or national realities, especially with which we have legislative powers. We are proposing to move forward in a model capable of uniting positive elements of confederal and federal models, which limits the exclusivity of the State, both internally and internationally. This way could open up a constructive alternative for reforming the model of State, from the assumption of its own multi-national reality, Mrs Martínez, and thus give effect to the Constitution itself, thus giving effect to the Constitution itself. You cited the Constitution. Euskadi has a specific legitimacy, expressly recognised in the first additional provision. The Constitution protects and respects the historical rights of the outlying territories: Araba, Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa, Nafarroa. The Constitutional Court has ratified the importance and scope of historical rights. To this legitimacy is added the unique additional provision of the Statute, which states: "The acceptance of the autonomy regime established by the Statute does not imply the renunciation of the Basque people of the rights which, as such, could have corresponded to it by virtue of its history, which may be updated in accordance with what is established by the legal system". Do you recognize him, Mrs. Martinez? This legitimacy has two consequences: Euskadi is undoubtedly a national entity of its own, and Euskadi is legitimized to conclude a bilateral pact with the State, in which its powers and powers are established and guaranteed. Thus it was defined as a pact for the political representation of the State to the Statute, adopted in a referendum in 1979, and not yet complied with, in breach of an organic law and the Constitution itself, in breach of an organic law and in breach of the Constitution itself. We have come a long way in the presentation, and the challenge is to achieve a plural and solid consensus around a great project of self-government, a new political pact that is an expression of our own, unique and differentiated national reality. Mrs Martínez, in line with the Venice Commission, the challenge from public responsibility is to avoid any form of social, institutional or political fracture. From a democratic point of view, responsibility is to articulate consensual mechanisms so that societies can express their will about their political future. I understand the European Union as an opportunity. I advocate the need to establish legal channels so that political communities who, by express and clear decision of their parliamentary institutions of self-government, in our case in this Parliament, want to consult citizens about their future can do so. That is my purpose, that is my desire; I believe that everyone should be the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU, made of the second Vice President, and the Chief of Staff and Empedugu, "about Profession." I remember you've got to ask questions from now on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u41	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Lanbide, as the Basque Employment Service, aims to contribute to the full development of the right to stable and quality employment and to promote social cohesion through the management of employment policies. Lanbide, today, does not meet that objective, in our opinion. Since the transfer of active employment policies, there have been many problems and shortcomings in the care model, and we also think – you know it too – that the inclusion of management of GIR has made Lanbide unable to engage in employment. Things have, so far, not been done well, and we would have to change that model to empower Lanbide and turn it into what it really was created for, to be the Basque Employment System, to really play its important role with regard to employment. You have recently said that changes must be made in Lanbide, something we have been claiming for a long time. We are very interested, therefore, to know what changes they think we should start already in Lanbide, because at the moment there have been no changes, the model is the same and the problems are still there. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u42	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u43	Bai. Mila esker, andrea president. Well, the government's will is transforming the profession. And, to make the profession modified and the instrument effective, we must make changes; changes, in the care service, changes, as well as management. So, what are we doing right now? I study, study, but not just from the government, but from the workers of the profession. That's what we're doing right now. And after we've examined it, how do we get on with it? So then, by the way of agreement. For us, consenting, it is very important that we should receive agreement from the members of the Council, and not by decrees, but by agreement. That's our will to transform the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u45	Thank you for your answer. Well, we are happy with the methodology that you are sending us today that you are going to use, and we also want to be patient: we do not want to deny you the possibility of fulfilling the commitment to change Lanbide, but understand our concern – we continue to worry and worry – which is motivated by the fact that the last legislature we believe began the same, with a commitment from the Basque Government – and I will quote in text – to reform and modernise the Lanbide Public Employment Service, providing it with tools that will enable it to strengthen the functions of guidance, training, integration into the labour market. A compromise which, of course, in our view, was not fulfilled, but rather the contrary: things remain the same. We demand that you really and finally address the change that Lanbide needs to be a public employment service and not an entity for the management, processing and over-taxing of benefits. To this day, Lanbide devotes enormous efforts to controlling people who receive benefits. We believe that this is not what has to be a public employment service. The introduction – with footwear, in our opinion – of the management of benefits such as the RGI in Lanbide has been wasting the work of guidance, mediation, etc., which should be done in Lanbide, on the road to employment, which is what is not being done and what we would like it to be able to do a public service in which we believe deeply, but which has to be effective and now cannot be done. Management of benefits such as GIR with the existing model has also created serious problems for thousands of people. There has been arbitrariness and discretion, situations that have often ended in lawsuits against Lanbide and which are a further burden on the work that the service has to do with respect to employment. The former councillor acknowledged in this Parliament that the Gasteiz courts estimated 40% of the remedies in relation to GIR, mainly because of suspensions or terminations of a right. This is a serious condition for citizens who are entitled to these benefits, but it also has an impact on the work that Lanbide has to do with employment. Lanbide has to work to facilitate access to the labour market, to offer Basque citizens quality jobs, with decent conditions, while accompanying those who do not access it to training that guarantees development and recycling, if necessary. And, for that, Mrs Vicelehendakari, you have to give Lanbide a good turn, because right now you are not being able to dedicate yourself to doing that, just as you have managed and designed Lanbide.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u46	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u47	Bai. Well, we share Mr Hernández's concern, and I think it is a shared concern from the government, but with the groups in this House. We all want the Basque public employment system Lanbide to be a useful tool for achieving the objective that we all want, which is to employ people, to have good jobs, and therefore to give them the proper training that the sector demands. And it is true that the daily management of income guarantee income, together with the management of minimum living income, requires changes in Lanbide's organization. As I said in the first round, we are moving forward at the hands of the heads of service in an analysis of where the maximum workloads are, the bottlenecks in Lanbide to start acting from the beginning of next year, because it is true that with the reform of income guarantee income and with the Employment Act, which we will pass in this legislature, we will be able to make Lanbide a much more useful tool and meet the objectives for which it was created, but we will not wait until then and we will start acting from the beginning. And, above all, we also have a strategic project for Lanbide that goes through digitisation, fully aligned with the European Next Generation strategy, which requires public administrations to deepen their digitisation, because that will facilitate the processes and facilitate the work of Lanbide workers and the more appropriate and more adjusted profiling of workers who are going to look for a job in Lanbide. With this digitization project we will be able to take advantage of all the technological advances that machine learning and artificial intelligence applied to public employment services entail. That is why we will be working on next year, and I believe that, with all the measures, with the cooperation of Parliament in the adoption of these very important laws, we will be able to lay the foundations for a good Basque employment service, which will try to achieve that objective that we all share, which is to raise the employment activation rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The eighth point in the subject list: "Appeal, Pazis Garcia Ortega EH Team Member of the Society, made to the Chief Governor of the Government and Autobernus, to give rise to the temporary rate of public employment in the way of strengthening public services." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u49	Good morning, everyone. Today we have brought this interference to this plexus in order to illustrate the greatest possible details of public administration's concerns and of many of the citizens. Is it, Madam, the head of the Mounts of War, agreed on this legislation, and would be justly granted to the severe temporary rates of public employment? And will you strengthen public services on that road? It's a year's conflict with the big and serious provisional rate of public employment, which must be given a solution. The Basque Country is believed to be the legislation of this legislation to end the temporary employment of the public. We cannot forget that strong and strong public services are to be founded upon public employments of quality. We have insisted on the fact that it has been revealed that a society, a people, must necessarily have great public services; and we repeat, that the public services of SCRIPTURE must necessarily be founded on public employments of quality. And, in our opinion, this is not the present state of public employment, and is not the public services we now have. I'll give you a few facts, and, not to be heavy, the most significant ones. Besides, I imagine data is known, but I think it deserves to be mentioned again, in order to reveal the crudeness of the situation. In European Union, for example, 20% of the workers are public workers, whereas in the autonomous community they are 12%. My God, they're all four temporary employees from ten of them. In the general administration, he's more than half of the planet in a temporary state. In the whole of the public administration, more than 50,000 workers are working on a temporary contractation, and in most cases we believe that they are closely fixed and structural. And there is another interesting data to show what model we have of public administration, and it is in the autonomous community that there are 100,000 workers at the moment opposed, working in private companies for the public system. The Department of Work and Employyment of this government announces that a social employment is the principal object of the administration, while the Administration is the temporary champion. And thus the public administration, instead of being exemplary in public business, has done the contrary; it is an example of what is not to be done. If we examine when the last public employment offers have been made, we shall see: General administration, 2000. year (s), special education in 2005, kitchens and washing machines in 2001. I mean, in those sectors, 35 years without calling for opals. For years you've been announcing a public offer, but they don't come. And you've come for years, you're still making the same predictions. So there's no responsibility for workers. The temporary workers, intercomes, have denied their opportunity to stabilize their jobs. And the most injured may also be women in this matter, and we believe that it would be well to consider the case, or even to examine it. The conflict of interinity in public employment makes it clear that fraud and abuse in temporary recruitment is not the property of private enterprise, and I believe that sometimes they seem to share the same working culture. In a fraudulent and abusive manner, flexible and vulnerable staff are available, through temporary recruitment, for the performance of permanent and structural work. And, as I said, the public administration, far from being an example of respect for stability in employment, has become the employer with the highest temporality rates. And the problem is not new or unknown to those we are and those we are here for. And already at the end of the previous legislature, Euskal Herria Bildu presented a proposal for a law – which was rejected – in which we intend to make our proposal to respond to this situation. It has also been the judicial decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union that have drawn attention to the fact that these administrative practices violate the European directive on the prevention of abuse in temporary recruitment. But, as we said in the previous legislature – and this was explained very well by my colleague Rebeka Ubera – the chance rate of public employment in the CAPV is not the result of chance, but the result of concrete policies, as a result of a recruitment model that has been applied for decades; perhaps, as a result of the decision that sought a thinner, more flexible, more dependent and more privatized public system; or the consequence of erroneous planning, or the decision that it did not want to develop its own model, or the inability to respond through negotiation to the challenges and problems that the public administration presents. Or, probably, all these factors together at the same time. Our situation in public is very crude. Mrs. head of department, for this legislation, has begun to appear on the table, which was left unsolved in the legislation that had passed. And when we collect the Basque People, we have at least identified the four problems we must make a challenge in this legislation. One, a huge temporary rate, average 40%. Transfer between generations, transfer and relay of experience. Third, the rate of repositions imposed, which limit the dimensions of our public services, according to the wants of the rising of the society of Euscala. And the competition problem is superfluous. There is doubt that we have sufficient ability to organize workers in our public administration. We know he's negotiating something about it in Madrid, but we can identify that problem too. And then, on November 30th, he announced that he had accepted the bill of law in company and beggarly. This pre-legal project is considered a tool for allowing public jobs to be stabilized by process. And that's why this pre-law project has aroused a great interest among the workers of the public administration, but even critics. At the end of the legislation which has passed, the process of maintaining the regulations of this law was a reproach to all the unions which were not negotiated in general, for they are not sufficient to oppose the measure of the problem, and the means which are formed in this law does not reach the temporary. And our interpenetration goes that way. What is your plan? Is this legislation going to be the legislature to end the temporary employments? And for that purpose, is the government willing to negotiate with the unions of the law projects in society and beggarly, in order to get to the heart of the temporary matter? I mean, will you get a collective negotiation back in public administration? Mrs. Garast, we'd be grateful to clear that up. And besides, we would like to be so, because it is essential that we should deal with our greatest affair in public employments by conversation and negotiation, in the way of strengthening public services, without forgetting that many temporary and interrogators continue to wait too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Madam Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u51	Mr. President, the President is in session with the Chinese, chief of the department, and members of the law, good morning. This government and this department agree with the commitment to limit the high temporary rate of euccal administration. Don't hesitate. We do not want to turn our back on the matter. We want to get the horn by the fire, by no means by the way, and by the real reasons of the problem. In short, we must reduce the intermediate grades, stabilize jobs, and descend as much as the average of public workers. In this way, we must remark that at this time of legislation we must establish public offers for more than 10,000 squares during regular calls. These measures, along with others that I will degranare later, will help to bypass the current bottleneck that has led to a high rate of temporality. All this must also be done with complete legal certainty. First, I would like to remind myself of some ideas on this subject. In fact, a few weeks ago, I had explained these ideas here in the play of the strategic furrows of our department. I think that these ideas help us to place the action and course of this government in the matter proposed. However, I think it's good to avoid discussions, and not confounding the people, Mrs. Garcia, in your interpelation, to make some sort of exactness in certain terms, which is always proper to know exactly what we are talking about, in order to avoid mistakes of interpretation. You have mentioned the word "variety," and I believe that the term must be explained, in order not to be confounded with the concept of mediation or interinity, as is sometimes the case. In the field of the Contraction, Exodus Republic, or Private Private, the temporary state of Contract, entails an unfinfinite, and finite condition of Contract. The mediation, however, is a concept more connected with the workers of the administration, and it indicates that a person is filling up a square for a while, until this square is filled with rules. I believe that this distinction is not vain, for all the workers are temporarily employed, but for some time all are not internes. It is well to remember that there may be many reasons which may occasion temporary in the Administration. Thus, for example, certain agreements about the conditions of work produce the permissions, licenses, restrictions, absences, and absences must be answered by temporary means. That's how we respond to the cases of workers in medicine. We meet with temporary contracts the temporary impotence of our workers. Apart from the foregoing, we have other states derived from the organizational development of our organization, such as opening new services or public equipment, like a new hospital. In such cases, however, a temporary contractation is used, in order that this new service may be quickly performed and started, and so that the people may pay proper attention to it. Even if I have been able to explain the situation which brings temporary stability in our administration, I saw it necessary to place the subject in its place. This helps us to understand that a part of the provisionalness of administrative function is inevitable. And that must be the way it shouldn't be for us to stop cheating. A margin of temporality in the Administration is therefore inevitable for its day-to-day operation, as it responds to non-structural causes that temporary recruitment helps us to face, to short-term organizational needs that would otherwise have a very difficult or, directly, impossible solution. And, given that these needs are going to continue to be produced, I think it is good that we understand that we will have to take for granted a share of the length of time we can take, which will ensure a sustainable and adequate response of our public services to the citizens' demand raised at every moment. As I have said, the concept of the interinos is different, that is to say, workers who occupy their duties in a commercial position, till they have done it properly. They are also temporary, but sometimes they have shades that must make us reflect separately. In this sense, I mean aloud, as I explained in the preceding Act, that this government will not forget that the high rate of interference is a challenge to correct. In any case, we cannot lose sight of the fact that this situation has largely been caused by exogenous causes, some as clear and obvious as the constraints imposed by State budgetary rules. I am referring, in fact, to the limitations that in 2010 exclusively authorized the number of places for public employment offer at 15% of the replacement rate, at 10% in 2011, and were banned between 2012 and 2015. As you all know, only as of 2017 did the basic budgetary regulation allow public administrations to undertake stabilization processes in vacant and budgeted structural positions, which had not been achieved in past years. From now on, I'll focus on the access to the public function, because it's the rare commercial jobs of public administration that are the proper access tests, which must be followed by predominance and rule. These proofs must respect the principles of equality, merit, and capacity. We're talking about reducing intensity, no more, no less. This government, constantly and years old, disposes of all the forums and degrees which it chooses to extend to the removal of this boundary of public administration's public employments, in order to complete the rarests in a proper manner. And, indeed, to develop these public business offers as they ought, and to diminish the incest and delay of possible means, it is indispensable that the calling should give them a legal security; nay, because the hopes and projects of men are at stake, and the projects of life are the persons who desire to obtain a proper employment in public employment. In a sense, we're talking about regulating these processes. Looking at the previous target, we're working to create a proper pattern of rule. This will also serve to encourage the rapid development of the planning tools and the organization of professional profiles, and to make the planned management of empty jobs. And besides, it's worth changing and defining new jobs. I would therefore like to make it clear that, in order to plan the needs of the Basque administration and to set up new management formulas in selective public employment processes, there are two fundamental premises. One, to adapt the legislation of our Autonomous Community, and that is where we are. Two, that disappear those basic rules that act as a brake for adequate and agile coverage of vacancies. In short, there is no single solution to reduce the rates of temporaryity, but different measures will have to be put in place in the different public employment policies and tools. These measures will range from the regular convening of OPE, with its previous processes of competition for transfers, management processes and staff size, allowing for planned management of vacancies, to the incorporation of innovative measures, such as new equality plans or health prevention and promotion programmes, focusing on generating healthy work contexts. As you see, a multiplicity of measures that, implemented in an orderly manner, will allow us to reduce the rates of temporality to a percentage that can be assumed by all and, above all, that continue to make our Administration an organization with a public service vocation of people who care for people. In any case, I'm going to finish the ETAE, in this work it's indispensable to the cooperation of the socialists, and to negotiate with them. We believe in negotiation and conversation, I believe. That's why we're working on these items in different places and tables for negotiation, and we're still working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u53	Thank you, chief physician, for your explanation. And I want to understand that the government is ready to direct the direction as far as it is concerned, whether on the way to the maintenance of public employment, or, in general, to the working, and the communication of unions, and the model of government. It's been a long time since nothing's been done while the temporary rates got up and became chronic; and I don't think it can be justified at the rate of reposition, because the temporary rates are following. And in the previous legislation, some disappointed attempts were made to solve the situation, and we think we ought to take some lessons in order not to do the same mistakes again. Undoubtedly it would be frustrating to use the absolute majority of this government in this matter, to rethink the same proposals, which have no support for the unions of the public administration, that may once more remain unconceivable temporary rates of public employment. You have spoken of the juridic Berme, and it is true that we ought to give legal guarantees, and that our legal frame does not help us. And we have confessed it, and have established it between problems, because we live in a legal and insecure frame, and we have no guarantee that our decision in our circle is not to be concluded on the table of the Constitution. It appears to us very well that there should be no false hopes in the public, and that the solutions offered to the public should be legal, but we think it will be worth while, in spite of the predictions of public offers which this government never accomplishes. That is also to create false hopes. The fat is the situation we have on the table, and the Basque Country, as we said in the previous legislation, is a plexous situation; we allow it to be given an extraordinary or exceptional solution. And for that, we think it's very important to negotiate and agree with the unions, first of all, a diagnosis. And I agree: perhaps we must make a diagnosis in order to fix all the positions we have to stab, for I think that when we're talking about this process to stabilize we're not all thinking about the same process. You, chief physician, have limited these processes to certain definite realities, and we think that we must place them in a wide way. And I will make it plain to you by an example: What happens in a partnership. Today, apart from the structure plan, there are about 6,000 workers who work around 6,000 people who have been working for years. You say that for temporary work, probably, but we don't think 6,000 workers will be most of those 6,000 jobs to complete the temporary work. There are employments of structure here, and they are fulfilling fixed duties. And so it is in education. Beyond the structure map, there are 3.500 workers who go to work every day with their temporal employment, and who have been working for years. And when we talk about the process of stabilizing jobs, we want to talk about these workers too. In the second place, the characteristics and conditions of the process of stabilizing which must be put into action must be agreed on in the General Table with the unions. Therefore, our position is to defend the regulation of a process of consolidation of public employment, where its conditions, seniority, type of evidence, temporality rates and even the very complexity of the solution must be negotiated and agreed by the Administration with the unions, with two clear objectives: one, to lower the temporality rates to rates that can be approved at European level; and, two, that the group of persons acting with temporary contracts to which these processes are directed may consolidate their employment and do not lose it. Those should be the two objectives. To this end, for Euskal Herria Bildu –eta amaituko dut – collective bargaining in the public sphere must have a major role in the solution, with the aim not only of ending the high rates of temporaryity, but also of reviewing the existing contracting systems and taking the necessary measures to prevent the situation that is now being resolved from recurring. And the Basque Country is convinced that the public administration has to relegate the table as soon as possible, this solution that can no longer extend itself to the will of all unions. And I'll end up just as I've begun, making the chief physician's request: Let this legislation be the legislature to end the temporary exercise of the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. My dear volcano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u55	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Garcia, I have followed your statement, and in this second turn, I would like to explain the exact measures that this government will place around the office of the Public Administration in order to make things more clear. On the 29th of last October, as you have said, I explained in this legislation that the two principal challenges of public employment are the digitalization and humanization of the administration. They appear to be contradictory, but, in my humble opinion, it is contrary. We have to unite both of them to get the Advanced, Modern Administration, people and people's. We are constantly looking at the public service which ought to correct the relations of the citizen. We have the idea of modernizing and refining the administration, on the one hand, of training and speculating public workers, and of answering the demands of society. We've started working with this purpose, designing the transition to digital administration, pushing the relay from generation to generation into new ways of working, with an inclusive genus gaze. As I have advanced in the first part of my explanation, it is necessary, in advance, to examine and organize public employment. This organization must be made with the political and legal security of the processes I have alluded to. In this regard, according to the legislative timetable, we have committed ourselves to the referral to this House of two bills: the Public Employment Act and the Law on Bodies and Scales of the Administration of the Autonomous Community. This Parliament will have much to say in the final drafting of these laws, which are so decisive for the rationalization, organisation and efficiency of public service and citizen care, and, of course, to reduce the temporality of public employment. All parliamentary groups will have the opportunity to position themselves with concrete proposals. You referred in your inquiry to the draft law on bodies and scales, recently adopted by the Governing Council. This law is crucial in order to be able to face the approval and realization of a consolidation process through the call for an offer of public employment in 2021. And that is precisely why we have tried to send it as quickly as possible to the House, with a view to its early approval. Indeed, the project incorporates two provisions concerning the consolidation of temporary employment in the Basque public administrations. Some unions have identified these provisions as insufficient and unsatisfactory. On the other hand, we have also been able to hear criticisms of them on the contrary: to provide a framework that is too generous and favourable to interim staff and contrary to the Constitution. I would just like to stress that the draft has all the mandatory legal reports and that from the department we believe that the draft has sufficient legal backing for its proper processing. I have asked to appear before this House in order to detail and share with all parliamentary groups the details of this project. Anyway, I wouldn't want to finish it without remembering some definite data. This government foresees that more than 1,500 squares in the general administration next year. And, looking at the next years, the government says they're gonna take 10,720 jobs inside the Repire Program. As you can clearly see, this government has a strong commitment to reduce the temporary maintenance of public employment with its processes. The process is unstoppable. Our will and determination are firm. Let no one doubt that we wish to put an end to the great temporary rate of public employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. 9th point on the subject list: "Interpology, Astybarria Astoria of the EH Collectors made by the Chief of Economical and Environmental Branch, near the Home Farms of Abar Errixa, and the plots of the Homes to aid the Homes." Mrs. Housekeeper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u57	Good morning, head of the table. Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Tapia. Today, for the first time, I'm going to speak of this April, and it's my first interpelration. I feel a great responsibility. That's how I felt about the wine and the production of our cellars during the few weeks I've been working on. It's been a hard year for all of us. The Pannonians began in March to break our minds, security, resistance, but, well, we're still here. The effects produced by COVID-19 in several sectors of society, and the measures to which they have been reduced, and to which they have been reduced, have brought to this forum several enterprises, disputes, and agreements, but it is not until now one, and expressly to be of the first sector. On March 12th, the entire first sector of Aukaba met in front of the Eukokong to ask for a promising future. It seems a long time ago, but it was in March. It hasn't been that long. A few days later, at the beginning of the pandema, our mouth was filled with telling us that it was an essential sector, and praised the work done by farmers and cattlemen, because they disinfected the streets with their tractors and supplied our homes with food for the day. Then came the descaled, and the people returned to "normality." And we seem to have forgotten that this sector, like many others, is suffering from economic effects from the pandemia, and that it was in advance a disturbing situation. In point of fact, the sociostantary crisis of COVID-19 is taking place in the land of the vineyards and wine-makers of the Araguaia. In the sales there have been a great decline, either by the restrictive measures set for the host, or by the close of the Horca channel. Besides, there are areas where there have been problems connected with the appearance of certain storms and vineyards which have caused damage. The host closing only aggravated the state of the sector. This is the present, but the former state was not idyllic either. When EH Collecta had spoken of the wine-making in the former law, he accused him of the absence of the little cellars of Arbatah. We've been asking for family loans over and over. And there are, of course, helps, but they don't part properly. My first initiative was to discuss the subsidies received by the Erriixan Homes of Arbat. When we saw the state of the sector and knew precedents, we'd like to check the last five years about the subsidies that you gave me. When we received the answer, we stood gaping. They were scandalous data. That's why, in order to denounce the situation, we gave a press conference a week ago. And after that we have received a mistake correction, bound to the response to information request. There was something wrong with the report, but it doesn't change the situation, though it was pretty fat. The data are still outrageous. Over the past five years, 58 million euros have been distributed among Rioja Alavesa wineries. For this, different subsidies have been used: Lehiatu Ardoa, Lehiatu Berria, Lehiatu Promotion, CMO Wine Investment, CMO Wine Promotion, CMO Storage... The accounts are clear. More than half of these 58 million are received by 16 non-SME companies; they have collected 33 million euros. But one of the 16, which is more than a winery is a marketer, gets 10,700,000 euros, 18% of the subsidies. I repeat, she alone. Almost a fifth of the aid, in the hands of a single company. Pernod Ricard Winemakers Spain, CVNE, Bodegas Faustino, Bodegas de los Herederos del Marqués de Riscal and Araex, that is, five companies receive 62% of the total, almost 360,000. However, the micro-symes, 80 wineries, receive 4,100,000 euros, 7% of the total. I repeat: five companies, 62 %, and 80 family and small wineries, 7 %. Isn't he obscene? I'd say so. I find it very worrying, and more so if we take into account that some of these non-SMEs also want the grape at a balance price, that they do not respect the costs of production and that they pay below them. There are ways of doing that, and we all know that it's done, that we don't respect the law of the food chain. In the first scene of the committee, Mrs. You know, that's the kind of case you knew there was. But it's not enough to admit it, we'll have to do something about it. If this were small, some macrohouses that collect these sums retain their workers without employment agreement for two years. "For the wine of Errisha the Arabah, they use the grapes which they bought outside. A perfectly exemplary game, isn't it? What's Red Beetle doing? Pues, reward this exemplary behaviour. It's clear to see the numbers. Without an answer to the information request, we registered another legitimate proposal. We haven't argued yet. By this means, in the division of money, it is intended to ensure that the prices of the grapes are paid by the purchase of the grapes, and that the harvest of the grapes of the Errisha of the Agarba. We believe these conditions are indispensable to guarantee the social similarity of our wine. But when we know the data, we clearly find it's not enough. Riots and small cellars need subsidies for their own subsidies. They don't have to compete with a gigantic multinational that sells all over the world. They need specialized support lines to survive. Every year, about 20 guinea pigs disappear in Errioxa of Araba. The last three decades, 400 is closed. These are those who help to weave the life of the region, who develop the country, which is the mark of the life of Errixa, and not of the others. We know that some of these macrohouses have become highly popular and that they are attracted to tourism. It's indisputable. But what the region needs is different. 13,000 people live from winemaking, 1,000 families. What's going on? Aren't you supposed to protect them? We think we do, and that's why we're running an interpenetration today. I mentioned at first that I feel a great responsibility for this subject. I'd like to know if you're responsible for it. I'd like to know what it'll be like to help the family houses and the little cellars. It is plain, as yet, that it is neither fitting nor just. So what from now on, Mrs. Tapia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments and congressmen. Ma'am, in a small country like our country, the importance of this sector is enormous. If we focus on the entire industrial sector, then those vine-guldens are supposed to be 1,5%, and, as far as the sector is concerned, 22 percent of the agricultural agent. And in all this, if we continue and look at them, they suppose more than a quart in the nutritiousness of the nutriment. The importance of his importance in the first sector is undeniable, and if we look to the whole chain of values, that is to say, when we start from the vineyard and come to the exporters, then the importance of the cellars, this eye, is enormous in comparison with the others. Besides, if we consider the last data, the last of which we have been in Eucharin, the last-year-old, the closed ones, the exports have been built up, and exports are, as it were, of some importance to the wine created for an exit; in this case, to the Errix of the Arabs. And it must be said that those wines which have the original name work as a motor, and that they pull their exports, and that their number increases, and the price increases. So, considering all this, the importance of the little Erioxan Eryoxan and family buildings is indispensable, and it is one of the priorities of our division. Why? Well, because they are, as you have said, the ones who have kept this sector alive in Errioxa of Abarah. This does not mean that large ones should be neglected, but that in a certain sense everything must be balanced. And we must consider not only the wine of Erriox of the Arababa, but also the chacoline, we must also consider the cider, and, more and more, the beer which they produce with the native barley, we must consider. He said that from this department we consider the family cellars and small wineries in Rioja Alavesa, those considered as SMEs and even micro SMEs, as an essential instrument to boost life and economy in Rioja Alavesa and to articulate territorially that area. In the last five years, you said, aid of EUR 58 million has been granted to the wineries of Rioja Alavesa, and of that EUR 58 million, 42 % has been allocated to wineries with a SME category. This has meant the improvement of the quality of the product, the improvement of the quality of our wine, the improvement of the sale abroad, the promotion and the placing in different markets of this wine. And, especially, the ones benefiting, precisely, from that exit to the outside have been the small cellars; the large ones were already on the outside. Perspectives 2020. During this exercise, we have done, as you said, the Lehiatu Ardoa programme, intended precisely for the external promotion, for commercial missions, for attendance at fairs, catalogues and presentations, where precisely the small wineries and the family members have the most space, because they are the ones who most need them; the big ones already do it per se. Where the Government can help most is in this kind of action. A total of 500,000 euros has been allocated. The ARDOIMB programme, that is, improvements in the winery, of course, have also reached an important value, and have reached the smallest structures, the micro-enterprises, those to which, precisely, the most common sources of financing are a little more difficult to reach; therefore, not only with the same opportunities for large and small, but also by encouraging the smaller ones. The Sendotu programme, designed to enable credit institutions, together with the Basque Institute of Finance, to have loans of a special nature guaranteed by financing from the department itself for investments in wineries. In addition, we manage the COM for wine, both investment and promotion, which must be remembered as a programme coming from the EAGF funds of the European Union. Then, by its very nature, the evaluation criteria are common in all the autonomous communities, but each autonomous community has the capacity to prioritize one of the criteria, and in Euskadi, precisely, the priority is to support the pyme wineries. Therefore, a special effort is also being made there. The fact is that before the covida there were two major problems going out, and the United States put down the limits and set them up in the previous year, and even the result of Brexita. This was supposed to be a kind of instability in the system. But above all, the name of the covida, and in this sense, to make the pandemic influence sink in some way, all was shut down, and when Horecka was only closed, or, above all, was shut up, not only in the Euscadin but in the world, in a certain degree, the sector of our cellars suffered; especially the small ones, especially when they had great, in some measure, had the means open in their distribution channels, and the little ones had this or more difficult. So that's how we managed to do our hard work. And now, after half a normal summer, Horace's sector has been closed again for months, and he's been influenced again in our cellars. But we'd say we put special measures in motion. What were these measures? Well, the NEKAFIN program. It was the NekekAFIN program, specifically, for borrowing companies, for cellars. And in this sector, in the cellars, in this case, we put them in together with the cider and the beer, the chaccins, and we've got 50 million of them. And at this moment, at this time, 29 requests are already closed, and in total, 14 million euros have been directed. So there's still money to keep going. On the other hand, you have also mentioned OCM in six or twelve months to receive wine. And for that COM Wine Storage, when it comes to COM, which is common for all the autonomous communities to come from the EAGF, aid is granted for almost 2 million euros. The Ardoa Mugagabe programme, implemented through HAZI for commercial innovation, has also been launched, that is, so that these small enterprises, above all, small wineries and family wineries can channel their distribution through different, innovative mechanisms, and 80 companies, small and family enterprises, have been hosted. Also, in this regard, in the year 2020, we launched the Basque Wine Office initiative for the support of the beverage sector, under the Basque Wine promotional brand, which you will probably have seen in some distribution channels of some relevance. For what? To position this type of wine a little special in sales channels with that brand. What does that mean, and where are we going to go in the year 2021? You'll see, and I want to focus on this, especially. The wine – wine, txakoli, cider, beer – produced with at least 85% grape produced in Rioja Alavesa, Txakoli grape, Euskadi barley, Euskadi apple will be promoted, so 85% local grape, something you were also asking me. Therefore, there we will make a special emphasis, not only on promotion, but on positioning that kind of – let's say – came more local or more local, with a traceability that will be guaranteed by the HAZI channel. In any case, we continue to think that we need to ensure the maintenance of the operational capacity of our companies; to mobilize the largest quantity, the largest volume of wine stored during this time; to continue with the work carried out on elements of innovation, especially commercial, for these small wineries; to also bet on the digitisation of the sector, and, in this case, for the companies in the sector, the e-commerce channel means a before and after. We must continue to do so, and, of course, in addition to the aid that we have already established last year, we must continue to deepen some of them, which are, above all – and I would like to insist – dedicated to the marketing of this sector that diversifies what the Horeca Canal is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Housekeeper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u61	(... ma'am. As a matter of fact, I expected such an answer, data, and... It's just normal. We're quite used to it. When the members of the government get some kind of criticism, poes, with a long list of the measurements taken. And of course we know he's doing something. Clearly the sector gets its scholarships. And you mentioned the names of so many lines and the amount of money distributed through them. But the question is, that even when the distribution has appeared, the criteria used for distribution are not adequate. They're not fair. In recent weeks, other lines have been launched, which he has commented, perhaps out of remorse of conscience when he saw how many wineries were left out of the previous ones. But the structural problem continues, and subsidies must be distributed in another way. The wineries, as you have said, are divided into four groups: not SMEs, medium SMEs, small SMEs and micro SMEs. The latter have less than 10 workers. And these are the really small ones. And they are, in turn, the majority. But, at the same time, as I have explained before, they hardly receive any subsidies. I have already said: they take 7% of the micro-symes, which is what I am talking about. And subsidies come from Europe with specific objectives: to promote rural development, to improve agricultural income and to improve the value of raw materials, in this case grapes. But we see that we are not succeeding, because small family cellars are essential for rural development, and, if we lose them, we lose the way of life of the peoples; we lose the peoples, in short. Villabuena-Eskuernaga, for example, is a town with the highest number of wineries per inhabitant worldwide. But it has a huge problem of depopulation: there are hardly any births. The local children's school has been closed because there are no children. The population is ageing enormously. There's no relief. She's not the only one in Rioja Alavesa. In the region, 12 of the 15 municipalities are losing population: Samaniego, 13.48 %; Villabuena, 9.41 %; Yecora, 7.48 %. Why? You mentioned a lot of measurements, but if they're so suitable, why is this happening? Why can't the vineyard keepers and cellars see a future? Well, the European funds (... ) Because ends do not follow. The farm rent doesn't improve. And the value of the grape is being diminished rather than improved. How do they see their future? It's impossible. So they're the ones that need real protection. These are the ones who have to compete with the wine industry, for hitherto they have only penetrated into the midst of the two patterns. The little ones are getting more and more choked and weaker. And the big ones, on the other hand, are becoming more and more gigantic. And in order to balance this situation, it is not enough to give you money; it requires a strong strategy to attract young and women. Digitalization and installation re-novation required. This year, Araban, two winesmiths died in a labor accident at Lapueblan, and another woman died at the bakery at Delika. The day before yesterday, there was an explosion in Lasern. Install innovations are indispensable to ensure security considerations. And these little cellars know what they need, they know the way they're going in the future. They want the best quality, too, when you're talking about it. They want to distinguish theirs from an industrial pattern based on price and quantity. Therefore, instead of discarding the alternatives made in Errioxa of Araba, they must be directed and facilitated. We must provide tools for building a pattern of our own to small cellars. For example, what is going on with Alava vineyards? How many times is he gonna be late? How many times are you going to be told no, using any excuse? They are asking for an integral strategy, which is, after all, a matter of commitment and responsibility. Let's stop rolling and change the pattern. Let's balance the balance. The help of the small family houses and cellars in Rioja of the Arabs, of course, but of course a worthy and independent future. Tell us how you'll get it, Mrs. Tapia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u63	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Well, I tried to explain what we do. I don't avoid a review at all or... I accept them all, no problem at all. At this moment, we think, we're all talking about it, but we're talking about it at the Errioxa of the Arabe, and I want to say more especially about the chacoline, the cider, the beer, and, after all, the beer, all of them have common problems, we must go on in every way increasing and supplying the lines we have to provide with money. Why? Especially because they serve for two things: one to make investments, and the other to promote. To make investments... And it's logical that, in a certain sense, we can understand how to make investments, when they're a micropyme, that investment projects are smaller than when they're big. But that doesn't mean we don't fund with the same amount. And, as Europe says, we funded the investment to 40 percent, small as well as big. And these investments are necessary and will remain. And we have spoken of it: 42% of all scholarships has gone to small and average companies. Why? Because the projects that have been introduced have been protected. We have to keep going. We need investments. We must continue with the innovation, as we have mentioned, but above all we must search for markets and search for new markets, especially when we look at small and middle-class ones. And of course, thirdly, we must consider quality, as we have mentioned, to give importance to its native, for that purpose, there will be a special program in the budgets of the year to come. And we must also consider that pandemia will pass, and that we must look out and out at exports; we must not forget that there is one of our potentials, large, and large for growth. We can't do it alone. Euskadin, we must, of course, do it; we must consume it more, and we must succeed here in convincing it more, even in the state, but also in the nation. That alone will give us the future, and there also will be our way. So these are the main lines. And we must also consider that when we put it on, we put down that NEKAFIN instrument with a special theme: that such a loan would be granted, but that money should be valued by the keepers of the vineyards; that is to say, a just money, that is to say, between the vineyards and the cellars. And when we realized that something was sometimes happening that wasn't very decent, and that when it wasn't very well paid from the point of view of the cellars, the vineyard-making, somehow, wasn't treated properly, it didn't suit the money they needed, we went straight up to these cellars, telling them that they were the conditions of the NEKAFIN, and that the balance was to be achieved. And I think it was all done to balance it. So that's the main line we've got today and we've started it. But we're working next to the sector, with the big ones, the small ones and the smaller ones. Eta aipatzen zenidan gai sensible bat, askotan aipatu duguna: Arabako Mahastiak, Alava vineyards. Well, of course, we are responsible for doing the appropriate administrative processing. The first part of the procedure has been carried out, the allegations have been received, the case has been analysed and, at this time, the process has been stalled. For what? To ask. And ABRA representatives, who made the request, have been asked to provide more documentation so that they can provide an adequate response to the allegations that have been made. What we have always said from the very beginning is that we are going to do the proper administrative processing so that we get to the appropriate places, so that we have a robust and well-dressed file. We are not delaying to delay; we are trying to make administrative processing the right one. If we had tried to put obstacles, we would have said not at first, and that was not the case. We're dealing with it in an appropriate and robust way. And I want to repeat it again from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "I'm asking, "I'm asking you about the failure of Casanova Alonso EH collect members of the team of the Department of Economics, Mesistence, and Environmental Department, of the joys of research and development." Mr. Casanova, from there, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u65	Thank you. Good morning. I have one problem: that sometimes when I prepare the topics, I think of bad jokes related to the issue. When we talk about aeronautics, for example, I say, "I don't know how many jobs in the air." Then I take it off, because I think it's almost black humor. Now, it occurs to me that you have just passed, with the subject of wine, a bad drink. But, probably, with the theme of R & D, another bad drink will happen again, because nik aurkezten doubtan sluta ez da batare samurra, eta errality ere ez da batare samurra. On November 20, Eupstate published the latest data on study and development, and the data is very bad. In the year 2019, according to the last data we have, we are exposed to our investment in research and development as a community. The official data is that at least 1,86% of the raw internal product is investing in research and development, compared with the year before, a centenima higher. And, to remain still in study and development, this is not an isolated data; this is a tendency, a tendency for the last years. Being fired doesn't mean just standing around, it means standing back. So, because this is not an isolated data, and as it is another landmark of a tendency, we think we must talk about the failure of your most beautiful researches and development. And that's very serious. It is very serious for our industry, for our economy and for our society; if study and development are not strong, the other will become weak too. So what will your government do to defeat that failure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u66	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u67	Good morning, Mr. Casanova. I'm sure you'll be satisfied with those drinks, because I'm glad to discuss it here with you, and it's not a drink. We'll have a drink when they let us go somewhere else. Well, for the last 40 years, he's acted like a Basque village on this subject, and he's pushed the economy, supported on two main axiss, I'd say: one, research and technology, and the other internationalization. And that's undeniable. So somehow I agree that we have to keep going and that we have to make things better and need more push. And the two political parties that we touch, really, that's what we believe. And it's not just to say it, it's just to do it in the background. For years, in this town, technology, people, economy, innovations, colleges... Everyone has made a path, a fat walk. No one has done it alone, everyone has done it. And institutions and corporations have made a lot of effort. Do we have to make it bigger? Yes, but we've worked hard, and we can't deny it, it's something we can't deny. There's been a lot of hands working here. I'd like to know where you've been. I know where the others have been; you, I don't know very well. I want to take advantage of those people who are working every day, in a way, to appreciate them. For if you really think that you're putting me in a bad drink, you might think how many people have been there, how many companies, researchers, and you're saying they do something wrong. So don't think you're hurting me or the government; think of all those people who have worked and continue to work for research, technology, innovation and competitive companies and products on the market for 40 years. Because they do it every day. Think of them, because maybe those who are bothering and those who are putting in a hurry are them and not me. Of course, I sincerely participate with you on many occasions in a multitude of debates of these characteristics, but I think that this time there has been a bit of a hindrance, because it is, of course, questioning the attitude and activity of many of those people, of many of those institutions. If you believe that innovation is done only by the government and that, coming here, you come to put us in a hurry, of course, you are a little out of focus. In any case, what is the government going to do? What he has always done: analyze in depth what is happening, where our weaknesses are, where our strengths are, and try to improve that place where we are weaker and can improve. Lord Kelvin, a British physicist and mathematician, said: "What is not defined cannot be improved, and what is not measured cannot be improved, and what is not improved is always degraded." Therefore, defining how, says Europe; measuring, evaluating and acting, that is our way of doing it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u69	Hello, again. Well, the truth is, it's one of the most unheard-of answers I've ever received, which I've heard in this House. In other words, criticizing the government means criticizing professionals in a particular sector? If I criticize the health counselor, am I messing with the professionals at Osakidetza? What if I criticize the education counselor I'm messing with the education teachers? No, Mrs Tapia, I am questioning your government's policy. And you have spoken of measurements, yes, of measurements. Let's talk about measurements. These are the measurements. I don't know if you'll see the colors of the lines from there. The blue line is the evolution of total investment in R & D in this community, and that blue line, from the year 2012, in which you reach the government, begins a sustained downward line, which stabilizes without any trend of recovery. The green line, which is the European one, clearly surpasses us with a upward trend. And the yellow line of the background, which is practically parallel to the Basque line, is the line of the Spanish state. This is the measurement. And here I'm not questioning anyone's work. I am questioning public policies to promote R & D, and I am not questioning them; the results are questioning them. You went out to quickly evaluate a data from the National Institute of Statistics – and I don't know if you have evaluated the Eustat's data; I haven't seen it; just like you did and I haven't seen it – a note from the INE saying that we were in the head, in the head within the Spanish state, and you give an interview in which you are happy about it, gives an interview in which you are happy about it. Well, if we go to the INE, we find that the Basque Autonomous Community is the one that has increased the least, above La Rioja alone, its investment in R & D in the last year, the least. If we are to compare ourselves with the countries, we know that we are at the back of the developed countries. If we're going to talk about innovation, we know that the RIS has given us an earshake, bringing us down to the third category, out of four, in innovation. Therefore, do not be angry with me, Mrs Tapia; be angry with reality. And I think you have given the key, the key to why all this is happening when you said that the Basque Government is going to continue to work as it has done so far, of course. I bring back Albert Einstein's phrase: "To always do the same and to pretend to have a different result is a symptom of madness." The results are the ones that question your policy, not my intervention. And don't try to divert questions from where you were or where you stopped being. You are the most responsible for R & D policy in this country, which has been failing in the results in recent years. And, therefore, it is you who have to lead a change of course and rudder...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u70	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Thank you. Thank you. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u71	Well, Casanova jauna, just two things. One: research results are not measured solely by the resources available. The government has been increasing for quite a few years more than 5% every year; from now on, 6% – other administrations also do so. But the private part is the one that invests the most, the one that has to invest the most. However, there are also other results that need to be measured where we also have aspects to improve. And that is why I said to him: we must evaluate each and every one of these elements, we must improve each and every one of these elements, and, of course, the Government evaluates them, analyzes them and puts in place measures to, from their point of view, improve, increase resources, increase resources in people, increase innovation where we really have a place where there is much to improve, and continue to move forward. That's politics.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "The question is, that the legislatures of the Ostero Galirdo EH team were made for the head physician of Economics, patience, and environmental settlement, in order to find a fossil gas in Gasté Town." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u73	Yeah. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mrs. Tapia. Hydrocarbros de Euskata has asked for council license from the two Armentian wells. We say that everything is opposed to that permission. The question is: Are you ready to protect it?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u74	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u75	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Otero, we talked about this 15 days ago, and I think it was rather clear. And if the permit is asked, I suppose it will be because we continue to believe that the gas is really the energy of transition, and so long as there is nothing else... And you'll tell me, if there's anything else, I'll ask you again and again. And if you tell me that the gas is brought from outside, if it's local, maybe we'll never agree.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u77	Well, we all know it's not a new issue. Every one has already given his reasons, more than once. And let each one accept his political responsibility, all I ask for today. And I repeat: You have everything against your project at Gran Enara. You have everything against you. And instead of stopping this nonsense, you run forward in this race that you know you've lost. It's against geology. Euskadi Hydrocarbons, in 2004, already concluded that this could only be extracted viablely by fracking. The permeability of the deposit is low, and, to exploit the deposit, it is known that a lot of wells would have to be drilled. The American energy agency, in 2013, already said that Balmasseda training was not considered a potential target, due to its low organic carbon rate. It's against the record. Euskadi Hydrocarbons has already participated in many wells in its 37 years of life and has never shown profitability, despite having promised much. And it's not "the third goes the vanquished": San Antonio-1, Aulesti-1, Cormorán-1, Izarra-1, Izarra-1A, Armentia-1, El Coto-1, Cameros-1, Estella-1, Viura-1, Viura-13. Eleven, and it's not a football alignment; it's the list of failures that Euskadi Hydrocarbons has had in the 37 years of life. And the balance of this adventure has been the loss of much more than 100 million euros in the accumulated. Euskadi Hydrocarbons is only standing up because you are committed to giving them our money to keep wasting it. And it is also against urban planning. In the chosen place, no extractive activities can be carried out. This was said by the Euskadi Hydrocarbons in 2011; it was said by the City of Gasteiz in 2016. And it's against Gasteiz. He has no social license to make this well, and there is no political-institutional majority to pave the way with shortcuts in urban planning. And it's against judicial uncertainty. The research permits are six years, plus three extensions – you know it – and are being stretched in a dubious way, at least. The issue is judicialized, and we are awaiting a ruling from the National Court, which can annul not only the well but the entire project. And if it were little, it has against future legislation. The Energy Transition and Climate Change Act seeks to prohibit the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. And you, against it all, flee forward supporting this, and not just that, but, on a cynicism bragging, which puts you on the edge of climate negationism, this week declares that this project is part of the drive to renewables, to renewables. I do not know whether you have realized that you are also responsible for the climate policies of this government for not long. The situation is asking for caution; the situation calls for the public effort to focus exclusively on renewable deployment. Whatever's in the subsoil has been there for 100 million years and it can follow a little longer, because now it's time to fight with everything we have against climate change and not to throw money into useless wells. And Armentia-2 is not an innocent exploration well; it is the spearhead of a project that we know to be sterile, but that would bring hundreds of wells to its best stage. You may insist, but if you do, I remind you that you will be the only political responsible, and make it clear, because we are going to ask you for responsibilities.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u78	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u79	Thank you. Mr Otero, that's why we're in politics, asking for responsibility for what we do. It's clear. Gauza bat argi utzi nahi diziut: when we're talking about cynicism, we're going to apply the story a little bit, because, when you say it's better to bring the gas – let's know how exploited – from thousands of kilometers and with 70% more greenhouse gas emissions, and you're saying that you're fighting climate change, because, equally, a little bit of cynicism too, right? Well, I'll explain what the reasons were to follow. One: I've got your reconnaissance permit. There is now no law against which we can proceed. The permit is, and what we have requested is, as it were, the permission to begin work at the moment, not the permit, but the opportunity to advance. Two: technical reasons, because you were talking to me about reports, so a little old. Technology is moving at a speed, as you well know, and Mr Casanova has just told us that we also have to go faster. Well, we can explore in a more detailed way, in a much better and, of course, more advanced way. Thirdly, the progress of these technologies makes it possible to be more efficient, one of the elements that helps us to make this project, of course, with the greatest environmental guarantees and with the greatest guarantees of efficiency, then, environmentally, with all the guarantees, with all the permits and with all the laws. I don't forget my environmental responsibility in this new department; don't worry about it. Economic reasons you bring. Of course, we have to analyze them; that is why we are talking about exploring, analyzing whether what is in that basement is exploitable or not. But you tell me you already said that I don't know what American organ in the year... Well, just as we have to analyse it in situ, we have to evaluate it, Mr Casanova, but we have to evaluate it with data and we have to evaluate it in a reliable way, not with analyses without any kind of contrast. Then there also technology helps us and can tell us whether it is really feasible or not. Y, Dede luego, you mentioned the social theme as well. And the gas brought in the Euskula, socially, and even socially, a tremendous benefit, and, in a moment, I'd say, confort. Why? Once in a while, at least, as I was old, when I was little, and younger, I used the hotel, used coal in our amon houses, and all that was gone, and the gas gave us an enormous chance. Well, he's still here, and I'll say that over and over again. I'll bet the ones I want to see you next to me. Yeah, I'll bet the ones we've got, but while we're doing it, we need something else. And that will be the gas, and another kind of project, and I want to see you there too: hydrogen. And for the Hydrogean also we must stake firmly, if we really believe that we must go through the situation of today to the reconnaisssance: gas and hydrogen. I want to see you, if you're really there or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is that, according to the EIS-2020s report, the development of the intellectual Eukains and the public finances, José Manuel Gilevelli Group-Ciudadans. " Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, we're talking about innovation again. We have been taking this issue back a few minutes, and this is certainly not random, but it is a symptom that we have a problem with the subject of innovation. A very short time ago, I said, the Economic Development Adviser has been asked about innovation, and it is now I who address you, once again, to reiterate my apologies for addressing a question that I am aware corresponds to the management period of your predecessor, and also to an issue that I know does not come directly within your competence, because, in fact, it does not come directly within the competences of any advice; that is, it is on horseback between Economic Development, between Education, between Lehendakaritza, etc. And this is a sign that we have a problem with this matter. I think we should recognize this and correct it. Well, it is true that at the moment we have some concrete data that make us think or that make us bring the issue here; for example, the figure of public expenditure – which has just been mentioned as well – of public expenditure on R & D in Euskadi, which, measured in terms of the percentage of GDP, has been reduced by 0.5% since 2012, the date on which Mr Urkullu held office as a lehendakari, to 0.45 in 2018. There are other studies – and I'm sure that you and your team, who are very rigorous about it, will have reviewed them all – and there will be different data, but they all agree that R & D spending is now lower than that found by the Lehendakari Urkullu when he joined the position. And this, I repeat, re-emphasizes, re-emphasizes on the table that we have a problem, that we have a big problem with innovation in this country. And, well, I would like to hear now in your words that you are going to correct and that you are going to invest and that you are going to change the direction. But I suppose the government will tell us the usual: that it is only an indicator, that there are other studies, that there are other indicators, that the difference is not so great, etc. But the data is there, and we can't miss it. And the worrying thing is not the data itself; the worrying thing is that it marks a trend that is not exactly up. And I don't need to expand on the importance of innovation, and more right now. My question, therefore, is very specific: how do you rate this decrease in public expenditure on R & D and what do you intend to do to correct it?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u82	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u83	Yeah. Thank you, Mrs. President of the legislature. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, good morning. Gil jauna, as you know, the European Innovation Indicator Panel classifies countries, according to their capacity in innovation, into four groups: leading countries in innovation, countries with high innovation, countries with moderate innovation or countries with low innovation. Euskadi has consolidated the position between European countries with high innovation. This means or implies obtaining an average of more than 95 % of that recorded by the countries of the European Union. In particular, it represents 99,1 % in 2019, when in 2012, Mr Gil, it represented only 91,9 %. I too believe that we will agree that public funding for R & D is a key element, but it is not the only variable. In this sense, and using a series of reports, but the same ones you used, and in this case the Eustat of 20 November, it should be pointed out that the investment in R & D in Euskadi in 2019 has increased by 4.1% and reaches 1,481.4 million euros; that is, 1.86 % on GDP in 2019, while in Spain it reached only 1.24. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u84	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u85	I do not know if what we are saying is that, as we are among the countries with the highest innovation, we should not worry that investment is coming down. Counselor, I believe that by denying the evidence, we are not moving forward. That public investment in R & D has declined since 2012, from my point of view, it means two things, or it can mean two things, two possible hypotheses: one of them is that the government does not really believe in innovation, since it is investing less and less; or it thinks – and this is already a much more malevolent interpretation – that it does not give short-term votes. Perhaps that's why Mrs. Cristina Uriarte has been appointed Commissioner of Innovation. Perhaps that's why innovation doesn't have the weight, location and role to play in the government's organizational chart. Perhaps that is why between 2010 and 2017 the number of patents, as we said in the last plenary, has dropped by 40%. The second option, the second hypothesis that I think of is that the Government is doing short-term management, rather than looking at the long-term, which is the right thing to do. I say because it is true that innovation almost never has short-term effect and it is an investment that always returns in the long term. But, of course, the government has been telling us for many years that innovation or its management is long-term, when in reality what we are seeing is that, in those areas where investment is long-term, it does not work. Counselor, I hope that in ten years' time the people who are here will not be able to ask this same question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u86	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u87	Mr Gil, thank you very much for your question. As I indicated in my first intervention, R & D expenditure in 2019 totalled EUR 1,481.4 million in the Basque Autonomous Community. This figure represents EUR 58 million more than the previous year, i.e. an increase of 4,1 %, strengthening for the fourth consecutive year a stage of expenditure growth that began in 2016 and which makes it possible to reach a new maximum in the historical series of expenditure in 2019. From the employment point of view, it accounts for almost 20,000 people in full-time R & D in 2019, 1.8% more than the previous year. Full-time research staff also increased more than the average by 2.7%, to 13,520. This government's strategic commitment to R & D+i is clear. From the point of view of financing internal R & D expenditure, the public funding to which you refer is the largest increase, which is 6.3% more than the previous year. And the 500.8 million contributed already represent 33.8% of total R & D expenditure. This commitment to science is a cost-effective investment, because, according to the Euskadi 2020 Science Report, Euskadi is a leader in the per capita return of the European Horizon 2020 programme. With almost EUR 160 million achieved in 2019, European fund-raising in the period 2014-2019 amounts to EUR 690 million. And with regard to the involvement of this government, which you required me to do, I have to say that it is a strategic bet for research, development and innovation, where we will continue to strengthen ourselves with the commitment of this legislature to increase R & D & I investment in science and university by 6% on average annually. And this is our commitment, Mr Gil: the increase of 6% per year in this legislature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u88	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the First Arrese Country Collections to the head of Education, the Child Schools on the increase of the budget of Parliament." Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u89	Yes, good morning. On the 16th of November, which I requested, the chief clerk of the Home of Happy Home, Childer School, made a scene in this Chamber, at the Board of Education in this Parliament. And he, inquiring after the degree of execution of the contract of labour, said in detail: "I have not applied the contract of labor, and I have not applied because I have no money." The manager said: "I don't get it, it's not in the budget for that." For this reason, I ask you, Chief Bilar's chief: Will the Board of Education increase the budget of the Parthians, the other the contract of labor, the right way, and the right way?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u90	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u91	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. In the past years, the service given by Child School to the Parzerker has become a vital service to thousands of families. We believe that these families are content with service of quality received by their children, and with the confidence it transmits to them. In answer to your question, the Board of Education is an engagement to continue to strengthen the budget of the Parthians, to provide the highest guarantee of service in order to combine family and labor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u92	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u93	Yeah. Thank you for your answer, Chief Bilardi. The chief clerk himself, the child-school manager's remarks to the chief clerk, are serious, as we believe, and I mean again that he has no money to apply, because he has no budget. And he said: "It doesn't reach me." And besides, he said: "I accept that I am taking this extraordinary resolution in a one-sided manner." And to say that the Supreme Directors of Parting, in this Assembly of Laws, are not fulfilling the contract of labour, we think it is serious. It's a serious matter not to honor what you agreed with the workers. Besides, it is a serious decision to say he has taken it in one-sided manner. And it's also serious to say that it's because of money, because of the lack of budget, because it's serious, in this case, as far as you're the president of Education, the Child Schools are the Partier, you still haven't taken them directly after these statements. And for us, too, you've just spoken about it for us, the Children's Schools of Partier, the common partuer, it's a very important service. He's a trained service, and the educational rights of children are a fundamental service to guarantee. It is also essential to their socialization and development, as well as to the union of their families. It is necessary, of course, that the quality of this service is to guarantee the quality of the service, and that these conditions are good. And that's why Child Schools have been striked by workers from Parzier. That's why they strike yesterday. And I'm not going to get into the wrong numbers, but it's true that this strike was a complete success. And they have not demanded privileges, Commander Bilartz, for they have demanded no privileges; they have demanded only to guarantee what is due, that public service, that public service, may be properly developed. And it's not just the workers, it's the families who asked for it. Some of the councils also sent a letter to you, and made specific requests. "EH Collects together with these petitions: The children's school is keeping the work contract in Partian, and making enough money for it, so the budget gets bigger. Moreover, as the laborers in the sector have asked you more than once, even in the EH Collector's opinion, the Board of Education must be directly involved in the negotiations-tables, not at the meetings, but in a constant manner. And furthermore, in the opinion of EH Collector, which was agreed in the monographics of this legislature in 2018, we must make even more firm steps in the direction of freeness. No more, not less, chief of the Union: "to keep the contract of labor, and to keep the agreements of this legislature, and to deepen them." And you've moved because of the social pressure and social pressure, you've moved, you've moved, you've moved, you've moved. So, to finish, I think we'd like to ask you three specific things for the children's press today. First of all, the contract of labor, and the establishment of conditions in order to obtain news of the contract, to increase the budget, and, of course, to guarantee the freedom of the Baby School to the Parthager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u94	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u95	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Arrese, the question you ask is based on a transition, but it's not real. I don't mean, I don't mean she's made out of faith or anything. Maybe that transition to confession, but it's not real. But I don't want to make a problem with that, because, of course, there's nothing else to do with the work contract, and we agree. In that sense, when you see what this is like, I'll give you three facts. The number of students at the moment when they were born: 3.580 students, Number of educationrs: 1.031. I mean, our student teacher is a ratio of three to four students. There's the implication of the Board of Education, and there's the complication of the fellowship. And the Party will continue, as it has been, to fulfill our basic role in society, with the union of municipals and of the Eucommys. As far as the educational department's budget is concerned, it's going to increase significantly: 58%. If we consider that the budget of 200,000 years is 53,7 million, the proposal will be 57,7 years later. Also, this year, the Board of Education will make a contribution of 2,5 million more, to face the downfall around 28,8% of the license plate. And, too, to tell you what was the product and the report: In 2016, we placed 42 million, 2017 in round, 42 million, 2018, 43 million, 2019, 43 million, 2020, 53 million, 10 million more. That's what we're talking about. As you can see, during the last year, the Board of Education has increased 23.2%. Like I said, 43 million to 53. Those are the numbers. And in the end, too, about my quota, by means of the benefits for the most needed families' license plate, and by the covida's pandemia giving a sidelong attention to the exceptional state of families which the economic conditions have essentially changed. That's the way: To help the greatest, or to demand more from the greatest. I mean, the negotiation tables, they can keep up their positions, but at the same time they do the usual role of our children and respect the service they give to our families. And remember the numbers we've given you: A 3,580 student, 1,331 educationist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u96	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask you, you know, about Martín, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU team... made of the planetal Plant, Housing and Transport Corps, about the development of public housing interventions." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u97	Yeah. Thank you. Mr. Arriola, the housing policy, in the last two decades, has advanced in our community; The floor law, the Housing Law, the Environment, the Rent, and several contrivances. But it's not enough. The facts we have seen, the facts caused by this economic crisis show that it is not enough. So how do you appreciate the public housing policy that's currently being established?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u98	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Martínez Zatón, in an oral question it is difficult to answer such a general question as the one I am asking. In the specific case of the crisis we are experiencing with the pandemic, it is clear that the crisis of COVID-19 is hitting hard in our way of life, testing all the structures of our society, and it is reminding us that, in the face of challenges of this magnitude, emergency responses are essential. But the basis for resisting is to have solid policies and services in advance; of course, in health care, but also in housing. And this is the main assessment that I can make, taking into account the response that, from our department, we are giving to the social needs created in this pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u100	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u101	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The aim was, therefore, to say yes, that we have a housing policy that is comparatively better than other communities, but comparatively, for example, with Europe, we still have quite a few deficits. We have 55,000 plaintiffs right now in Etxebide. We have an increase in rental evictions. We have a rental bubble still fired, of 1,300 euros in Donostia, for example, or of 1,000 in Bilbao. And we also have, according to the data of empty housing managed by his department, 15,000 empty housing units, 3,000 of them in Bilbao and 1,000 in Donostia. But at the same time, right now, in December 2020, we have a decree of subjective law without approval, an empty housing decree without approval. The law was passed in 2015, and this Parliament, several times in the last legislature, approved timetables for these decrees, which have been breached by the Government. Moreover, we are the only autonomous community that maintains a fiscal policy that costs us 375 million euros to all Basque citizens, rewarding the purchase of housing. And I ask you if you can imagine if the Housing Department could allocate those 375 million euros that cost us the home purchase award to the rental policy, to reach those 55,000 people who are currently demanding housing. But in addition, my colleagues from Podemos have agreed with you EUR 5 million in housing policy in the 2020 budgets. They were for shared housing, for cohousing, for youth housing and community housing. It was one more step; of course it was not the definitive solution; it was one more step in housing policy. Yesterday – my colleague Miren Gorrotxategi has already explained it to the lehendakari – yesterday afternoon we received voluminous information; among them, the answer to the question about what had been done with it. That has not been applied, but you have unilaterally done what you have done is to allocate it to aid for people who have had a vulnerability motivated by the covid – which we agree with these aid – but we are surprised that those 5 million euros are being withdrawn from public housing policy, while at the same time we are seeing 50 million euros, for example, overcosting in the work of the Metro of Donostia. EUR 5 million compared to EUR 50 million. And the last thing I wanted to ask you about this matter – we will certainly have more time – is that, at your first appearance in this Parliament, I asked you about the regulation of rental prices, and you told me that you did not see it for our case, for Euskadi. As you know, the Government of Spain, through the Ministry of Transport and the Second Vice-President, is going to promote the new housing law, which will introduce the regulation of private rental prices in the strained markets, and, as is evident, for example, Bilbao and Donostia are within it. The goal is to protect tenants and avoid speculation. In this regard, I would like to ask Mr Arriola, as Socialist Housing Advisor of the Basque Government, whether he will develop and assist in the development of the future housing law, the regulation of private market rental prices also in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u102	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Martínez, responding to your question, indeed, the effects of COVID-19 on the economy have aggravated the precarious housing situation of many people. Therefore, in addition to replicating the central government's measures on rents and evictions, from our department we have launched, since March, specific aid to exempt from the payment of housing to tenants of protected housing affected by ERTE, ERE or the fall of their income. And in April we also articulated aid in the same direction for the payment of rents in the free market for six months: a total of 1,500 euros per collector. Indeed, these measures were not included in the original budget for 2020; they had to be articulated. And to articulate them we had to make internal changes within the budget headings, in order to be able to respond to an emergency that needed to be addressed based on the capacities we had. In the first case, the beneficiary households have been 1,389, with an expenditure of €1.4 million. In the case of free rent, as of 2 December, the people who received aid were 1,802, with a total expenditure of 2.6 million euros. I can tell you that we are finalizing an order extending the application of this aid by 2021, which ends on 31 January, while the effects of the pandemic persist at local level. The demand we are addressing has been lower than we thought and budgeted. The explanation, perhaps, lies in the previous existence and subsequent reinforcement of a social mattress that has cushioned the impact. I would like to remind you that 32,832 people are recipients of the GIR, but that they receive, in turn, the supplementary housing benefit, according to data from 2019, to which we add 7,895 people receiving social emergency assistance for the payment of rent, 672 recipients of the economic housing benefit and 746 recipients of the Gaztelagun programme. All this aid amounted to EUR 88.5 million. If we take into account, moreover, that the family units that reside in the public rental housing park pay much less than those of the market, it turns out that in Euskadi, without counting the recipients of municipal aid for the payment of rent, there are 65,739 families that benefit from the housing policies for rent. Of course, it is important to contain the rise in rental prices – and we continue to work on it – or to deal with the emergency situations of vulnerable families at risk of eviction, but being aware that the most effective tool is to have a sufficient public park for rent. And we'll keep working on that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u104	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interrelation, in the popular group of the Carmelo Barrojas, a member of the Ciudadans, a member of the Medical Department, a member of the eucalyptus and laterologists of the eucalyptic system, and of adapting himself to new existence needs." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u105	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. Egun on. Counselor, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Good. We believe that this health moment, which we are experiencing and the crisis and those affected and those affected by it deserve a moment of reflection, and also in the professional or technical or scientific sphere, in relation to specialized medical care for many people. And we have raised this question because we think it is a good time to raise, above all, but also to make definitive and positive decisions regarding the role of very specific professionals: the professionals of geriatrics, gerontology, who are definitely involved in the public health network, in the public health network, in our hospitals, in our health centers. Today, these specialized medical techniques, which are primarily aimed at the elderly, the elderly, are essential. Today, these specialized techniques of support, assistance and treatment for the elderly are essential, in addition to those that already have the whole health system, but as essential, as specialists, demonstrating day by day that their presence is necessary. Well, there have been many statements, there have been congresses, there have been scientific articles, there have been pronouncements of societies of all kinds. Among us, in the Basque Country, there is an exemplary society of geriatrics, gerontology: Zahartzaroa, a leading society. Of course, there are others too... He participates in the congresses... Or the Spanish Society of Geriatrics. And there are these complaints and the conclusions of his work and his activity in relation to claiming the presence in hospitals, in health centers, of geriatrics, as specialists in something as important at this time as aging, such as chronicity, its treatment, its follow-up, etc. We understand that geriatric services must be implemented in the Basque Health Service. There are also many specialists, but there are two specialists who must address chronicity: primary care doctors, family doctors, and geriatricians. I believe that it is becoming clearer every day that this collaboration is essential, that it is necessary, and that it will certainly be, as it is already in many parts, in Spain or in many parts of the world, that determined involvement of geriatricians within the public health care areas. This reflection or analysis of this situation, of the involvement of geriatricians and of the inclusion of geriatricians and other specialists within the public network, has had a walk in the Basque Parliament, in relation to parliamentary initiatives, with information, with inquiries, with analysis by the Department of Health. We recall an important initiative: in 2009 it was approved by the House, by the majority, unanimously, that is, signed by all the parliamentary groups, or almost all – some of the Joint Group at that time I do not know if it signed it – but, well: the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party, our parliamentary group, Aralar; that is, a compromise amendment, a very interesting, very important motion that opened up that expectation. The Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government's Department of Health and Consumption – and this was negotiated at the time – to incorporate geriatric specialists into the Osakidetza network, where their role is considered more appropriate and timely, according to the study to be presented in the Basque Parliament within six months and in accordance with the strategy of multidisciplinary care for chronic patients. That is, there was a clear will to incorporate these specialists into the Osakidetza network, and, agreed with the Government, that was what was being proposed and what was being proposed by the parliamentary groups, all of which I have read before. It was also mentioned at that time that the Basque Parliament urged the Department of Health and Consumer Affairs of the Basque Government to facilitate the necessary conditions for the development and organization of training, which is a fundamental element of the training of Geriatrics in the Basque Autonomous Community. Well, then, that was an important pronouncement, and – I say again – of all the parliamentary groups at that time, understanding the importance of that issue. We want to continue to understand that there is that reflection in the department, that there is that need. We have been found by health officials prior to their responsibility, in relation to these issues, in answers, in addition, to parliamentary questions on the participation of geriatrics, gerontology in Osakidetza. It has already been answered before; there has been a reflection on aspects related to these needs, these types of posts that may be required, taking into account the impact of new organizational structures, new forms of management in human resources planning; we now have to say that of the new incidence, the severity of the pandemic or its impact on people's health. And, of course, that objective and that parliamentary response was the adequacy of palliative care also to the current situation in our health system. And there has been talk of chronicity, pluripathology, care integration, etc., and of identifying these lines of action and improvement that allow better care for these patients, these older patients. This is the fundamental element: the presence of geriatricians in the National Health System. It is a progressive reality, due to the special characteristics of its competence in dealing with everything related to health, to the existence of the elderly. And we've seen that in the last job relationship, in relation to geriatrics, for MIR training. Well, there is a good amount; none of them, of course, seems to be that in the Basque Country, but in many other places, and every day they have greater prominence and more role. We understand that... And, therefore, a constructive initiative in relation to seeing this possibility of integration of geriatricians within the Public Health System, hospitals, health centers. Today it is more necessary than ever, after hospital health care in health centres, to link these medical specialists in the relationship of professionals who care for the elderly, this particularly vulnerable segment of the population, in addition. We consider it important, and it has that possibility, that space. Well, I want nothing more than to know the government's purposes in relation to the progressive incorporation of the specialties of Geriatrics, Gerontology, into the health activity of the public health care system. That is our concern. We understand that we are making a constructive question with this inquiry. We are concerned about our elders, about health, about the fact that specialists in this type of health treatment are incorporated into the public health system – it would be a guarantee. We will be able to see the complexity of how it is being done, how it is being integrated, but we understand that need and want to share it with the Government and tell us what its purposes are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u106	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u107	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. The Department of Health and Osakidetza have always been characterized by their capacity for adaptation and innovation in the face of the evolution of the different epidemiological contexts that have been given, guaranteeing quality assistance to our population. In this sense, and in relation to the theme of geriatrics, already in the Health Plan 2013-2020 a strategic line on aging, chronicity and dependence was included, understanding that our epidemiological context, with a high percentage of the population over 65 years old, required a model of care based on the patient and her disease, and not so much focused exclusively on solving acute problems, understanding chronicity as a challenge for our system for a long time. Thus, when we are talking about chronicity, we are talking, to a large extent, about aging and a series of chronic diseases, which have in common characteristics such as origin, in many cases multifactorial. Usually, they do not pose an immediate risk to the lives of patients, although they do shorten life expectancy and condition a worse quality of life. They are of long duration; they need care and care. Thus, with this approach, and for a long time, different aspects have been worked out, with the aim of meeting this important part of the population, among which we could mention the implementation of new nursing roles that allow to respond to the new needs of the population, such as the hospital liaison nurse or the case nurse, or the stratification of the population, which allows to classify patients who a priori may require greater care, a greater number of resources, with more than 16,000 identified patients, much of whom are elderly patients and with great dependence and fragility. In addition, medical services and, in particular, internal medicine services have been evolving progressively in the face of this new reality, ensuring, as we have commented, an adaptation to this social and epidemiological situation, on which, in recent months, and in relation to the pandemic, the need for more specific attention to the elderly has been highlighted. It should be noted that, in relation to this progressive adaptation of medical care, steps have been taken over these years, including steps to be able to incorporate the figure of the geriatric patient into our care, such as the OSI of Araba, which, for four years, and with this aim of incorporating a broader vision towards the geriatric patient, created a specific section with the idea of providing comprehensive and individualized assistance to the elderly person, incorporating a geriatric patient into their service. At this point, from the Department of Health and from Osakidetza, we consider it opportune to evaluate the possibility of incorporating geriatric specialists into our teams, with a view to providing better assistance, with emphasis on ensuring the autonomy and independence of the elderly, thus changing the approach of care to the elderly patient, being more focused on functionality and less on disease. In addition, if this assessment is considered appropriate, Osakidetza may change its offer of assistance, offering places of geriatric physician within its care portfolio, if necessary, and even assess the possibility of accrediting places of resident internal physician of geriatrics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u109	Thank you, President. Well, thank you to the counselor for her answer. It seems to me, therefore, to be a good answer and a good news. We consider it appropriate, he said, to link these professionals to health, to public health, to health care. He said that the Department of Health and, earlier, the Department of Health have had the capacity to adapt. Indeed, such adaptation is now required. The strategic line of ageing. That is, if there is a strategic line of ageing, we have to apply all available resources, and, of course, geriatrics, that specialty, is a resource available and specialized. It also transcends, as has been said, the role of attention to the elderly, to chronicity, to ageing, which are the acute problems. It transcends the role of the geriatrician, which is the resolution only of acute problems, but has a more integral vision: the geriatrician, the geriatrician is involved in a more integral treatment of this aging and attention to chronicity. That is the fundamental element. Those new roles, which you've also talked about, what would they be? Well, there they are, in many areas of health care and health care. But, as far as geriatrics, gerontology is concerned, it is an already classic role and it is an already consolidated role, which must be new in Osakidetza. He said they've taken steps. They've been very small. We are talking about an important change; well, I don't know whether in the structural or the organizational – we suppose not – but important in the care philosophy, in the philosophy of the treatment to aging, of the treatment to the elderly. That is why, in this sense, that openness or that search for the need to incorporate the geriatrics professionals in Osakidetza and its various care activities or hospitals or health centers, well, there will be which ones... Or that's the fundamental element. We need to know when – I ask the counselor –, because then that has to have connections within the medical training, within what are the annual MIR programs. When is this definitive reflection foreseen? The conclusions of that analysis, of that study, for when does she understand that they should be made? We understand that it is urgent, after having done the analysis of the treatment to the patients, of the situation that we are living. That is to say, in that sense, given the disposition, now what we have to put on the table are the procedures. The experts in geriatrics, scientific societies have always spoken and always contributed, in addition – not new – their intentions and their analyses of where to act: to develop a program to improve the care of the elderly in hospital emergency services, to improve orthogeriatric care, to plan the typology of the patients, the characteristics of the mid-stay units, to continue the development of the mid-stay units with criteria of territorial planning, to create networks of multidisciplinary units, the treatment of alzheimer, pharmacovigilance, pharmacology, prescriptions. There are many issues within that comprehensive vision in which they can participate. That is why I say again that I think it is appropriate – you said it – to do so. We will help the government to do so. And yes, I would like to know when that decision will definitely be made in relation to that linkage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u110	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u111	President andrea, eskerrik asko. In my first intervention, I explained that the 20132020 Health Plan included a strategic line on ageing, chronicity and dependence, a plan that we will have to evaluate at its end, this same year, before drawing up a new plan that will include, as it cannot otherwise be, special attention to the health of the elderly, something that goes beyond the mere incorporation of people specialized in geriatrics or gerontology into our care services. In fact, as I said in my appearance to explain the Department's strategic lines of action for this legislature, health care for the elderly has a special presence. Thus, the second objective is to reduce social and gender inequalities in health, especially in a situation of health and economic crisis such as the one we live in. The objective is to achieve individual care, to provide specific protection to those most in need: older persons; minors; persons with disabilities; LGBTIQ+ persons; ethnic, cultural and religious minorities; persons deprived of their liberty; migrant persons; persons in vulnerable situations. More specifically, a new comprehensive model of social and health care, a plan for caring for the fragility of the elderly and a plan for people with addictions or at risk of having them, will be promoted in older people. The creation in the Department of Health of the new Directorate of Social Care is undoubtedly a milestone for this important area of action. As key elements in strengthening the structure, a catalogue of socio-health resources and a consensual funding model, as well as an evaluation procedure, will be established. Within the digitalisation and non-face-to-face care measures, the teleassistance service will be extended to all persons over 80 years of age, and a specific line of professional care will be launched for single persons. For the next few years, we want to promote a new comprehensive model of social and health care, coordinating primary health and social care networks for target social and health groups, and especially for older and dependent people living in their homes or residences. The implementation of socio-health electronic history will promote integrated care among all related institutions, with the elderly at the centre of all activities. As you see, it is not just about incorporating new figures or not incorporating them, but about a profound update of our system of care for the elderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidedez, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU team for the chief physician of the Medical Department, concerning the reduction of the night hours of the site of constant attention." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u113	Yeah. Mrs. Chief. Last November 30, the management of the Bilbao-Basurto Integrated Health Organization decided or, better said, communicated the decision of the closing of the night hours from 00:00 a.m. to 08:00 a.m., starting next February 1st, of the center of continuous attention of Deusto. In Bilbao, from that date on, there will be no face-to-face service of outpatient emergencies at night hours. The people who went to this point of continued care at night will go to the Hospital de Basurto. One of the purposes of this type of service – we have talked about it on other occasions – is to relieve the burdens of hospital emergencies; quite the contrary to what is achieved by such decisions. Our question is about the reasons that lead to the elimination of this type of service. I think I am not mistaken if I tell you that you will surely give me the same answer that you have already given to workers who have expressed their disagreement with the decision, as well as to neighbours who have expressed their disagreement with the decision. In any case, we are interested in the answer, and we are interested in moving them that seems to us a bad decision, a step back, a bad decision. And we ask you to back off this decision. We thought it was a necessary service, appreciated by the people and useful. We believe that these types of services are useful, and therefore we believe that this decision should be reversed. Take a step back in this decision; re-open the night service of face care in the health center of Deusto.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u114	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u115	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I would like to clarify your statement at the beginning of your speech, because the action that Osakidetza has taken has been to replace the face care at the point of continuous care of Deusto from 0 to 7 hours for home care and for referral of cases to the emergency hospital of Basurto, and which is justified by the need to rationalize and dedicate the professional resources of Osakidetza in the most efficient way, especially in a situation where the pandemic caused by the covid is demanding the full effort of our health system. The two important issues, at the moment, are, on the one hand, to decide whether to keep the Deusto CAP open is an essential necessity, and the conclusion reached by those responsible for the management of the Bilbao-Basurto OSI, together with the care management of Osakidetza, is that not. On the other hand, ensure that there is a close and effective alternative to pay attention during those hours, and the answer is yes. The provision of services cannot be considered, at present, with the same perspective as a year ago. Then, the effort of professional resources to keep Deusto's CAP open from midnight to eight in the morning was considered reasonable. Today, these efforts require a different approach in order to respond to a different situation. The attention to the neighbors of Deusto is guaranteed, which is really important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u117	Good. Indeed, I did not expect another answer. The word'reorganisation' seems to serve you all at the time of these changes in the points of continued attention. We have talked in this Parliament about several of them: reorganisation in the face of a first wave and a very complicated situation for the public health system. We have recognized it at all times. The reorganization in a second wave does not seem to us as justifiable as the argument for making such decisions. We've also moved him on some occasion. The reorganization as an argument before the pandemic arrived was also done by the department. We do not share these kinds of decisions. We think that what is done is to close a very useful service for citizens, a service characterized by one thing: easy accessibility for people, best accessibility; and also a very useful service for the health system itself. You are thus turning the hospital emergency into an extension of the outpatient consultation. Health policy and what science says is going the other way. You have also argued for the low use of services. If primary care is not enhanced, it is not used. Finally, we think, Mrs Sagardui, that a drop in demand does not justify the closure of an emergency service. No one's thinking of removing firefighters because there hasn't been a forest fire in the last three years. For people this night service at that point of continued attention was important, it is important. We ask you to reconsider this decision, and if it is because of the pandemic, we already tell you that we think you should have already been prepared. But we would also like to know what plans they have for when we get through this situation. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u118	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Lady cider, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u119	President andrea, eskerrik asko. As you well know, continuous care points offer a service outside the usual hours of clinics and outpatient clinics on our Osakidetza network, for those who have not been able to attend a regular appointment or because they are suffering from some medical emergency. In our case, since 2015, the number of users who came to the Deusto CAP from zero hours to eight hours was, on average, five people per night, and by 2020 it remains similar. Keeping the CAP open from midnight until 8:00 in the morning requires the presence, during all this time, of three people: medical staff, nursing staff and administrative staff. Three people, eight hours each, to receive less than five people. In a different context, we can understand that the proximity of the resource, to avoid the citizenry having to make a little more displacement, for example, to the Hospital de Basurto, is a value that can justify maintaining the service. In the current circumstances, priority needs to be given. The care is guaranteed, on the one hand, by the staff of Deusto's own CAP, who provides home care – I insist: does home care – without the need to move the people who require it. A service that is not at all saturated, because the daily average of users does not reach a person. And, on the other hand, for the emergencies of the Hospital de Basurto, which in this time zone has on average eight cases of minor emergencies, in addition to having, as is evident, more resources than the CAP of Deusto and sufficient capacity to meet the demand that can be moved from Deusto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interadecialization, the popular group of the Carmelo Barrio Barroja-Ciudadanians, a member of the Cultura and the head of the political race, a friend of the professionals of culture." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u121	Thank you, President, again. Good morning again, everyone and everyone. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, the world of culture – we have also talked about this in this House – has been very affected by the situation of the pandemic. And, indeed, we spoke in the Permanent Chamber in those months of March, April... We are then concerned about parliamentary initiatives. We have also recently done so, with the presentation of the lines of government, with some parliamentary initiatives. This concern for the world, for the women and men of culture, of art, of those activities affected, of course, essentially, by the situation of the pandemic, by the situation of COVID-19, has naturally drawn our attention; therefore, through this inquiry, we want to analyse this situation in answers to certain parliamentary questions from this same parliamentarian and also from other parliamentarians, such as Mr Estarrona, as regards aid and the materialisation of aid to cultural professionals, presented aid, published in the call for aid, of 30 April 2020, at that time. And we have seen that the department responds to us and confirms – according to the information sent to us by the government about those affected by the crisis of the COVID-19 within the professionals of culture – that only 17% of the extraordinary aid established for the sector was awarded. Of the 330 applications for financial aid to professionals, people of culture, people, artists, two thirds of the 330 applications have been rejected, 219 and only 104 estimated and processed. It was very striking, in principle, this response and the analysis of this situation. And then, then, it became worrying... That meant that the aid, the established aid, had not reached the people, had not reached its end, in order to neutralize those needs that were demonstrated and demanded by the world of culture. Even in some responses, it was suggested that if the money – which was EUR 2.5 million – were to result at some point in the face of needs and paralysis, then new formulas would be thought of. But finally, we find that they did not award more than 2 and a half million euros of that resolution, of that call. It is clear that there has been a new wave of the pandemic. Restrictions continue – very important – in cultural activities, in production, in artistic activities; restrictions continue in shows; restrictions continue in exhibitions. Let's not say anything about concerts, festivals and all that heterogeneous, living, rich world around culture and the need for people who participate, spectators, amateurs, fans, customers, visual or active participants or materials, in relation to all this activity that unfolds the world of culture, the world of art. And, as we are in this wave of the pandemic, so, also how the coming months will be for cultural, artistic, business, autonomous, professional creators in the world of art and culture. We must say – and the adviser will know this – that there is confusion, concern, unhappiness, concern – in some cases, anger too – in the sector with regard to the management of this type of aid, which was shown to be necessary. As I said earlier, Lanbide's decision of 30 April concerning the call for aid to cultural professionals whose activities have been cancelled or suspended as a result of the declaration of the state of alarm at that time by the covid, as it is now being extended, is still being extended. I mean, that resolution was there, it was the resolution that applied the amounts we talked about. And the amount of the aid was very clear there. The aid for this call is intended to alleviate the situation of the absence of income of the professional beneficiaries, as laid down in Article 3, as a result of the declaration of the state of alarm, etc., etc., and the amount we have already commented on. It is clear that the same resolution referred to the list of IAE headings, and we are drawn to quantification. When it comes to the production of cinematographic films, therefore, the estimated resolutions have been two. Other headings: synchronization, film editing, film tapes, one; off-premises shows, one; entertainment companies, zero; paintings, fabrics, plastic in buildings and premises, zero; actors, cinema and theater, an estimated resolution. That is, a long et cetera in relation to all the headings linked to music, linked to art, linked to cultural organization, to interpretation, to dance, to artistic direction..., and it has attracted our attention deeply. So, of course, you have to know a little how we are, why this is so, what will be done, if something has failed. We can think: they have failed in the management of aid, subsidies, and, if it has not been possible to award more than 17% of what they were, something has had to fail. What failed? Missing information, for example? There may have been a lack of information, but we understand that people or cultural professionals were very aware that they needed some... I mean, information, I don't know, missing the... Have there been impossible or insurmountable requirements? Have there been severe or exaggerated denials in relation to these issues? Well, there is the situation of what we have seen as a reality, in relation to the management of aid and the low allocation. And therefore, we want to know – because we are in a situation and the complicated situation of those months continues to be maintained – what are the government's aims in order to implement a plan of aid to the artistic and cultural world in order to effectively compensate for the damage caused by the restrictions and difficulties of the sector, given that there have been difficulties in accessing these aid because of the number of refusals established by the resolution of the aid. It is clear that something must happen, and, well, the counselor will inform us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u122	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u123	Mrs. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. I thank you very much, Mr Barrio, for asking me this question and in these terms, because I think it gives us the opportunity to talk about aid programmes and plans, but above all, it gives us an opportunity to review the measures to support the cultural sector that have been adopted in different areas and from different institutions since last March, and also the limitations and difficulties that may have existed. I'll start at the end. I wonder about the purpose of the possible aid to the artistic and cultural creation world that can be implemented in order to effectively compensate for the damage caused by the restrictions and difficulties of the sector. And I also start with the last thing that has happened in this House: on 19 December, Parliament in plenary adopted a non-law proposal, following an initiative by Mr Estarrona, for which the Basque Parliament, first, declared culture to be an essential asset; called on all public institutions to maintain public budgets for culture; first, it urged the Government to take the necessary measures to maintain cultural activities; and, secondly, it also urged the Government to take new measures and adapt the criteria, conditions and obligations of existing aid. Well, those are the ones that mark the non-legislative proposal passed by this Parliament, the purposes that will guide our department in the coming months. In any case, I believe that these are two of the main challenges we are facing right now: The first – and I think it is up to all Basque public institutions – is to do everything possible to ensure that cultural activity can be maintained, even with limited restrictions and restraints. After the general spring confinement, most of these activities were suspended and began to resume on 1 June. In this second wave, which begins more or less in August, we have achieved that most of the cultural activity has been maintained and has not been closed down like other activities. Museums, orchestras, theatres, exhibition halls, cultural centres, cinema halls, libraries, archives, libraries have been open for all these months and remain open and, therefore, have been able to develop their activity. Some professional or semi-professional activities that make it more complicated remain – for example, the nightclubs that are also concert halls, and I would say that street travelling shows, especially street theatre. In any case, the maintenance of cultural programming has allowed many agents to develop their professional activity and a large part of the citizenry to enjoy their free time and cultural offer in a quiet and secure way in our capitals and in many of our municipalities. I do not know what awaits us in the coming months, until we are able to achieve a sustainable balance between health care and most of our activities. In any case, our efforts will be to keep cultural activity open, to the extent possible. And that will depend, as I said before, on everyone – institutions, professionals and the public – maintaining responsible and secure attitudes. And it will also demand an economic effort on the part of all the institutions. In my opinion, the second challenge for public administrations is to maintain budgets for culture, as this House has required of us. In the case of the Government, this is particularly important, because, while the aid from parliaments and municipalities is mainly directed towards the maintenance of physical structures and the programming of content, the government's calls depend, above all, on support for creation and cultural production, which are essential for the maintenance of structures and the professional cultural fabric. In 2020 we have maintained and resolved all calls in the areas of culture and heritage promotion. There hasn't been any cuts. And, through these calls, to put a reference, in 2019 565 independent unit projects were supported, with a total economic contribution of more than 16 million euros. It is important that in 2021 we can maintain all these calls. On the other hand, I think it is also important that we address the definition of new aid and the characteristics it should have. The year 2020 has had different moments. After a few months of intense activity, the general confinement was established and all activities were suspended. At that time, the institutions endeavoured to ensure minimum income for all cultural professionals and liquidity to companies and cultural professional associations. Then came the summer, when we strive to recover the cultural activity. Since the second wave began in August, we have striven to maintain activity. At different times there has been support from all the institutions – the Government of Spain, the Basque Government, outlaws and municipalities – aimed at private agents of culture. I do not want to take away any responsibility, and I am prepared to take on what we have not done well, but I believe that, in any case, this question of aid requires taking into account all the aid that has been put in place and analysing ours within that general framework. There has been general aid for all sectors; specific aid for some sector in particular; direct aid, which has an impact on income; or indirect aid, which affects the economic balance. I believe that, in any case, drawing general conclusions can give us an idea of where there may be gaps between the aid offered and the aid offered or received by cultural agents. My first conclusion is the different situation in which public and private agents have been found and developed, particularly with regard to the situation of employees in private activity and their recruitment regime. Another conclusion is that the more structured companies and associations are those that have been able to access aid more easily, while the smaller or weaker ones are those that have received less aid. With regard to applications and access to credits guaranteed by Elkargi and endorsed by the Basque Government, or even those of the ICO, it is practically the only business structures that have asked for them, while companies of an autonomous associative nature, for the most part, have not wanted to do so. The same has happened with access to ERTE. In this case it has also influenced when considering the possibility of taking advantage of an ERTE the regulatory requirement that employees be discharged during the months following the completion of the ERTE. Another relevant conclusion is that, as a result of the criteria set out in the calls or because of the difficulties of the applicants to comply with them, the number of applications submitted has been much lower than expected. It is also a remarkable fact that virtually no call has exhausted the resources available to grant aid in all the institutions. In this smaller number of applications submitted and granted different factors have been able to influence. For example, information may not have reached all potential recipients. Most of the time, in addition to communications made through the media and advisory services created ex-professional, communication was strengthened through associations representing the different professionals. The most controversial call has been that called by Lanbide, aimed at securing some income to the autonomous or contracted persons, stable or intermittent, who had not obtained any income at that time. The goal was to secure some income. Only 330 applications were received. 104 have been granted, for a value, as you have said, of EUR 432,000 on a stock exchange of two and a half million. Of the applications submitted, 153 were denied. Why? Because most applicants had already received other benefits. Should they have been compatible, Mr. Barrio? Should we have provided a minimum income to those who had already collected it from another institution? Another 19 were denied because cultural activity was not their main source of income. Should it have been done otherwise, Mr. Barrio? 13 were refused because the applicants were not found to be discharged in the relevant sections of the IAE or were not listed under any scheme or were not tax domiciled in the Autonomous Community. Does it help me to specify, Mr Barrio, where cultural activity begins and ends, and who should be considered and who should not be a cultural professional? And I ask you more questions, in case you can help me. Should we have raised a minimum income outside Lanbide? Should we have met criteria that contradict those that usually arise in Lanbide? The answers are not easy. I don't have them all. Therefore, I would be grateful for any guidance you wish to give me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u124	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u125	Yeah. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, counselor. Well, it is quite clear that the questions in full control are asked by me or by parliamentarians in relation to the issues that arise with the actions of the government, with the aid that is granted with difficulty or with the lack of information... I mean, I think we're seeing that what happened was a little bit of a mix of those issues. You asked questions about the quality of those who presented themselves to aid and the disparaging concept; for that is what you have to analyse and you have to raise. But we see that, on a plan of aid of two and a half million euros, that only so few people are present, knowing, moreover, that the sector was demanding them, that the sector was worried about their situation, the lack of resources, the lack of action, the lack of capacity to create, on many issues, the lack of spectators... I mean, it's very eye-catching. And that is the government's approach and analysis of those issues that I raised earlier, with which something has failed, something has failed, because in other issues aid comes and ends immediately, that is, phones are saturated, phones are saturated... And here's something, something... And you asked yourself the question too: has it been information? A lack of information? Defective information? Well, that's what they'll have to analyze. And that's what I was asking: those very complicated access requirements, not just the normal ones. That is to say, if the aid of the Ministry of Culture is incompatible with the aid of Lanbide, then it is incompatible. But, qualitatively, you can tell us something, because there are many sectors involved in culture, there are many sectors of the plastic arts, of the performing arts, of the creative arts... And then there are many people who have come to the political parties, I suppose yours, to say that this does not work well, is not managed... It's managed with a lot of difficulty. So, in that sense, we think that where there can be those gaps, where there can be those gaps to which you referred... It must also be said that... the difficulty that they are small businesses or the difficulty that they do not associate sufficiently. No, the issue is to analyse situations more humanely, perhaps, or more personally, and to be able to generate and create channels of communication, of information, to the sector. Many times, in fact, large companies and large cultural enterprises, large artistic enterprises, because they have managers, they know who to turn to, they know the approach of aid, indeed. And they've put themselves on the table. We knew at the time of the first wave of the pandemic the important aid that was also given by the Ministry of Culture, indeed, and there they were and are to be thanked. But, in that sense, it is very striking, and you will have to answer that it is very striking that of an approach only 17% has been managed as aid. And that's something we'll have to overcome, and that's something we want to overcome, because not just right now... Yes, you have mentioned that there is openness, but many issues remain... Locals – what you're talking about –, night clubs for musical performances. Well, some effort has been made by the administration. But, logically, there are all those venues with performances, with audiences, linked to the hospitality... Well, they're gone. Many shows that have to do with the night, the cinemas, end late, end at 12 o'clock many times. In theaters, there are even sessions, precisely, that are at night, because that's when people go. All that and other cultural manifestations, festivals, that, that's gone. That is to say, we understand that there is still room for action to satisfy the sector and to overcome those issues in which we have seen something fail. Something has failed in the information, in the impossible requirements, in the very strict denials... Indeed, the questions have to be answered by you, not by me. And let us hope that, in view of this part of the second wave, we can certainly improve that treatment to the cultural world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u126	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u127	President andrea. Yellow neighborhood. Indeed, you ask the questions, and my obligation, when I have answers, is to give them to you. But I will be able to ask you for your opinion, and I have seen that you have not wanted to give me any opinion, because I think you have the same difficulties as I have in answering some of the questions I have asked rhetorically. It's evidence. And, equally, among all – that we all have some responsibility in this matter of politics – we can answer some questions of those that still have no answer. We have found ourselves in a completely unexpected situation, for which I, of course, was not prepared, and it is very likely that in many of my decisions it was wrong. I won't deny it; it's very likely. I did not find any instruction book to know how to react and how to act in a situation as complicated as this. But I insist: I believe that the analysis of aid must be done within a general map on which all are covered, if not... I do not want to take away any responsibility, really, but, if we set up aid to guarantee a minimum income and forget about aid to self-employed people because of the cessation of activity, we forget about the ERTE, we forget about other aid, because we are not going to make a good analysis, neither are you when you ask me or I when I answer you or I don't answer you. In addition to these Lanbide grants, other grants were set up for micro-enterprises and cultural associations. This aid, which had a fund of EUR 2 million, coincided over time with other aid which was also granted or raised by the outlaws of Bizkaia, Álava and Gipuzkoa. These were compatible, because we decided among all, because it was about dealing with company structure costs. In this case, too, we have found that, with the exception of the Bizkaia Foral Chamber, which raised it in another way, the funds earmarked by the Government and the Gipuzkoa and Alava Chambers have not been exhausted. And here too, then, many questions arise. The need; we demand to justify the reduction of income. Well, that revenue justification has become a difficulty. Most applicants have received help, but it is also true that we expected more applicants. And we have found that this requirement to demonstrate the decline in income has become difficult. I'm not going to ask you the rhetorical question of whether we should have missed it. I believe that an effort has been made – I do not want to say that it has been successful; I want to say that an effort has been made – and it is very likely – to meet the demands that were being put to us at the various meetings and tables at which we met, but it is very likely that in the design of the aid we have reproduced some of the difficulties that exist in the sector or in some activities in the sector or in some professions linked to the sector, in which, well, indeed, we have not succeeded. And we'll have to see how we give him... I don't mean how we give him order, but how we can put this situation in another way. In any case, out of this EUR 2 million fund earmarked for support for the costs of micro-, autonomous and cultural associations, only one quarter, four hundred and one thousand euros were spent in the case of the Government. What have we done with the rest? Because in this case we have been able to act on the rest. Well, then we've allocated 100,000 euros to the Durango Fair to create the Zu no program, have DA! And with these 100,000 euros we have managed to open rooms in eight Basque localities and that 32 groups and musical interpreters have acted in them and received a remuneration for it. And with the remaining million and a half we have granted a grant to Euskal Herriko Musika Bulegoa, who has assumed the responsibility of producing and organizing 250 concerts and performances of music, dance and theatre in different Basque localities. This operation has been called Beste bat, and this live arts circuit has allowed the recruitment and activity of the most outstanding performers of music, dance, theatre and circus in our community, the use of empty music rooms and the hiring of the technical services necessary for the organization and attendance at these concerts. I hope that it has served, therefore, so that some people may have been able to work and others enjoy it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u128	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, a member of the Cultural and the head of the political department of the Language, in ETV1. " Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Zupiria, on 30 October, you regretted in this Parliament the issuance by the EITB of documentary Euskal Herria and freedom, because, in your opinion – and I quote you textually – "it merely collects the testimony of a party". It seemed to me a few words, like those that the lehendakari directed that same morning, very appropriate, that they could go in the right direction, but from our group we already demanded – I also asked you here personally – that it is already right, and that we must move from words to deeds. We demand that the ETB must stop issuing contents that undermine State institutions, that whitewash terrorism or humiliate victims; and also that, from its department, to which the public body EITB is attached, every means be put in place to ensure that the Victims Act, which obliges the media to ensure that expressions contrary to democratic values, human rights, peace and freedom do not take place. Well, well, Mr. Zupiria, it hasn't been six weeks, month and a half, and again we're here in the exit box, in the same place. The Altsasu series, based on the aggression suffered by two civilian guards and their partners in the Navarra village of Alsasua in the early morning of October 15, 2016, has been the subject of a series by the ETB. Far from being in solidarity with the victims and condemning the events that have taken place, the ETB's own website already announced that this miniseries – which is quoted in the text – " seeks to provoke the spectators' reflection on what has happened, and will focus, above all, on the feelings of the defendants". In case there were any doubts as to what this declaration of intent means, the production director of the Eider Gabilondo series has defined this aggression as a rock-bottom case, and has pointed out that the convicted are puppets in the hands of justice. For all this, Mr. Counsellor, I ask you today: how does the government feel that an ETB broadcast is ever closer to the feelings of the aggressors than the victims? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u130	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mr. Zupiria, yours... Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u131	Mr Gordillo, it is very difficult for me to give an opinion on a series that has not yet been issued. Have you had a chance to see her? Well, I haven't seen more than the first chapter yet. I don't have an opinion about the series; I'm glad you have it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u132	Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u133	Look, Mr. Zupiria, on the ETB – I'm telling you in case you haven't noticed – we've moved from telebatzoki to teleherriko. The first chapter of this series has already confirmed the worst omens. It must be said that we are not surprised, because it is that the producer of the series, Baleuko, is the same as the 360, and it is a reason why I asked him here, in this very headquarters, some time ago; and it is the same – I remind him again – that in recent years he had multiplied by 14 his recruitment with the ETB, by the way. In any case, they must be recognised as coherent, because we return to the same thing again. They have a sick fixation. The productions that are broadcast in the ETB have sick fixation for placing the Civil Guard as provocative and authoritarian, while the aggressors always appear portrayed as poor victims of manipulation. I, Mr Zupiria, who have seen the first chapter, remind you of your words of 30 October: we are again faced with a show of part: empathy, solidarity and contextualization of the actions of the aggressors portrayed here as victims, while the real victims do not receive the same treatment or approach. That is why, from my group, Mr Zupiria, we demand the immediate withdrawal of the series. It is already wrong, from an ethical point of view, that this type of contextualization be carried out, this type of series where the victims are placed – I say again – as if they were the aggressors, but it is done from a public medium. It would be bad if it were done from a private medium, but it is also done from a public medium and it is done with everyone's money. Therefore, if you want the ETB and if you want to carry out this kind of contextualization of what this act of aggression entailed, you can do so with the account of the facts accredited in the court ruling, and, as I said at first, by not undermining the institutions of the State, by whitewashing terrorism, and above all by showing their support for the victims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u134	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u135	Well, Mr. Gordillo, you have enjoyed your right to make a criticism that I respect, but in which I will not enter. The Law on Establishment of the Entity has created the bodies in which the control of the emission of EITB and its contents is carried out. You have a lot to say in those organs about it, so I invite you to go there and do it. And, on the substance of the matter, then, I believe that all I can do is refer to the statements that before I made the government spokesman and the lehendakari on the substance of the matter, which I believe express the position of the government, which I assume is the one that interests you. On November 15, 2016, just one month after the attack took place, the government spokesman textually said: "The events in Alsasua are undoubtedly serious, and must be investigated and clarified as soon as possible." The spokesman expressed his surprise that some facts that had begun to be presented by the Ministry and the Civil Guard itself as hate crimes later brought the arrest and pre-trial detention of the accused and, finally, the case was brought to the National Court, where they were qualified and tried as terrorist crimes, the spokesman said. April 2018. At the beginning of the trial, the spokesman said: "From the legal point of view, there is a disparity of opinions between those who believe that this action is terrorist and those who, on the other hand, believe that it should be tried in ordinary justice because it is an ordinary crime of alteration of public order." The Government considered the characterization of the sentences excessive and called for a full clarification of the facts and reasons, and a fair and proportionate and rational judgement. March 2019. Following a massive demonstration in Alsasua, the Government considered that the justice system had made a particularly harsh interpretation of the case, starting at the beginning of its definition of terrorism and then correcting the criminal type, but maintaining the harshness of the penalties, which the Basque Government found disproportionate, taking into account the events that had taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-11.u136	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-two.
