ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u0	Good morning, everyone. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I remember that these gentlemen and ladies have taken the vote: Leire Pindo, Zeurate and Pazis Garcia. I also inform you, that the sixth point in the subject's list has been withdrawn, and that the fifth point will be discussed in the first place, and the first point in the fifth. Five point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced by the members of the CORA CORA CENTERO CORRIO, in order to form an extra office for the use of the European Union. Discipline and final resolution. It's the caller's turn. Mr. Otero, you have the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u1	Yes, good morning, everyone. Thank you. It might be a nice day to make an organization struggle, too, to see if we make it a great thing for all of us. Today October is 15. It's a coincidence. According to the chronogram of the European Union, it begins today at the beginning of the time when the States begin to trace the sketches of their reforms in Brussels. Some of them, as is usual, are late in the case of the Chinese State, but others have already completed their planning, for instance, the States of France. In our responsibilities' camp here, I'd say we haven't focused on the discussion quite yet, or worked well, and that's today's plan. In the pre-control complex, we made an interpenetration about these funds, and the result of this is that the motion which we bring here today is the result. I don't want to repeat everything I've said last time, but I want to repeat the importance of funds that can come from Europe a little bit. Because the pandems are getting crowded ahead, and now we're in a crisis that we're entering an unknown terrene. We are, in our opinion, face to face with a popular challenge, and are exposed to a state which demands the strength, the skill, the power, the creative, and the united impulse of our country, in which necessity rises, and the income descends. Europe has here made a considerable effort, and will, for the first time, consume for the first time as a common debt the principal part of the "Next generation." And so the funds that can come from Europe take special importance. An unusual mechanism, a responsibility, too. It seems that we can agree here, for he himself said at least in words in the previous session: "I agree with your reflection on the economy, that our situation is serious and evil, and that fund can be good in order to get out of the situation." These funds are touched by all the institutional areas, and the last word from Europe has not yet come. The discussion will continue in detail, especially on the conditions relating to the funds. We have our worries here too, and we'll continue working on it by our parlamentary European team. But that's not our only concern. When we talked about this in the previous check facility, we warned us that there were different dangers around these funds and that one of them was in the decisions. We saw a monument of centralization. We said there could be great temptations from Madrid to use these funds as a caramel bag. And that suspicion has come true. Spain has already presented its intentions, a pompous title of Spain can That leaves us in a complicated place and we have to say it and confess it. In fact, first of all, we had a chance to negotiate with Brusel in different administrative levels, which came directly from Europe. The foundations of Horzon, the federal funds, for example, and more. Now, a new mechanism (this development mechanism in the future of the next generation) will be centralized in the window of Madrid. Our projects will have to compete in one or several windows in Madrid, but in Madrid. And that should be one more reason for our exercise as a country. I mean, you're here and you're here to defend yourself. But, as far as we have seen, you do not seem ready to make a common strategy about it. It is only for the harm of all men, if they do not do so: From the discussion of what we have to do, we will go to the discussion of "what we have obtained." In any case, we're not going to give up on this effort, even if we see the opposition today. In any case, the process begins, today begins in Europe, but until April, the selection of programmes that will be financed will not end. In April, the European Union will, in principle, say which program or program will be selected in the radians package. To this end he has already fixed his criteria, the central axis has decided, and has taken out a guidebook to explain how things should be done. But before that the State has to choose, and as I have told you so, it has introduced itself, it has fixed the axes, some percentages, making drawers. And before that, or at least parallel, we should do our own work. This task would require our first marking and defining axes; and then choosing a project that best fills those axes. And like the last step, like the final phase, by means of a transparent process, to see which company can enter. But this is where the house started on the roof. Faced with the expectation of the funds, what has been done or, rather, what has been done was to ask Asier Atutxa and Pricewaterhouse Coopers to make some sort of accelerated letter to the Magi and the result – as has been seen these days – has been a true hunch. And in many ways. Firstly, because we have not started this journey with a previous debate, a strategic debate, a country debate, a debate on our needs and following what the European Union was telling us: to start with a broad political dialogue. Secondly, for having commissioned a list of a private consultant with night and without publicity; showing, in passing, a manifest inability to handle this from public institutions. Thirdly, because there is evidence of the concept of country transformation behind these projects that have been developed between Pricewaterhouse Coopers and some unknown government or government agents. And the concept of ecological transition that some people have in this country, where they enter well from roads, well from tunnels, well from high speed trains, fish farms, Guggenheim and other amenities, has been evidenced. And we cannot forget that these funds are designed to make a strategic transformation, especially in the ecological and digital fields. But, well, I don't want to get stuck, anyway, in the concrete projects. It was also a sham for the notorious absences – difficult to understand – in the projects presented, in all the approaches we have been able to see, both in Europe and in the State. For example, the rehabilitation of energy-efficient housing is a key axis. Here, with the oldest housing stock in Europe, as has often been said, is this not a viable or necessary project? Doesn't this attract a job? And he is also pleased to have sent a list to Madrid without having agreed or consulted with virtually anyone; leaving out virtually all the socio-economic fabric of the country: the university, the rest of the political agents – including the partner of government –, the Gipuzkoa and Araba. And the best indication that this has been the case has been the general cornet touch that there was after we made the inquiry here and after it came to light – following the request of Euskal Herria Bildu – the list of projects. They were a poem the following days: the deputies of Gipuzkoa and Araba saying that they also had a lot of projects – although it is also true and it has to be said, which we know, that in several departments of the deputies sounded the trumpets and there are people still working at a standstill, again fast and running, to involve presentable projects – Markel Olano recognizing that he had been able to give a feeling of territorial imbalance; Adegi saying that the money had to reach the small business; the municipalities saying "what about ours?"; Government announcing that there will be a technical office to collect more projects. And this is surprising today because in the amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government, after so much talk about the technical office, they have said nothing. But I'm going further. And I will highlight something about what has been said little, because the original listing that was sent to Madrid in August places in the leadership of several, from many projects to specific companies, companies with names and surnames. Much has already been said about the projects of Iberdrola or Petronor, for which billionaire transfers are requested from the Basque Government. But this violates all European competition rules, transparency rules or even the Public Sector Contracts Act. This list would have real difficulties to consider within the law. And I have seen the amendment by the People's Party, I understand that something is going to be said in this regard. What do you mean money from all Europeans for a particular private company? What do we aspire to? After the allocation of resources, is there a rosary of resources for violating competition rules? Won't the process be the other way around? Do we not have to present projects or programmes on the basis of public strategic planning, and then do the bidding so that there are companies that choose to carry out these projects, those we had in mind or others that can enter? Or are we so used to using the public as a red carpet for the private plans and projects of some very specific companies, and do we think that now, in this process with Europe through, this is also going to sink? And the examples are obvious. Much has been said, for example, about the Iberdrola project. In this country, we have decided that hydrogen has to be a fundamental energy vector; it is not clear to me. The Energy Sustainability Act does not say anything about this. The Strategic Energy Plan, just a very lateral mention. And now it turns out that it is the strategic project; but not ours, as a country, but that we ask 330 million euros for you to go from Europe to Petronor so that you can carry on this project? It gives me the feeling that everything here looks like it doesn't matter. Everything doesn't matter. That served in his day to give a headline. And so, hit by headlines, we're saving the ballot, aren't we? That's what it's like to live a day. After all this, don't think things have changed a lot. In the words of the Archangacy, "The new proposals that are coming to the present form a previous list." So the previous list is valid. And at the first point of your repentance, we say: "Diseñar la methodos adecuada y portentuna para cullinar la laboracion de un program." Culminar esto? Did you know that he was beginning to die? I mean, first of all, there's a list that we add more projects to it, and now you want to set up a methodology? Really? You announced a technical office last week. Now, about that, there's nothing. Anyway, we're still in time to pursue what we've done so badly. That's why we introduced the motion. And the objects of motion are clear and sensible. And there are two: the first to open a process of dialogue and political agreement, receiving European orders, and the second to open a strategic office. It's decided on the strategic line, but if all the agents are to participate, to be informed, there are many who need it, and there'll be a lot of paranoia for technical help, so they can be proposed or shared in the projects. This whole thing is classed, default, and developed mechanism for tracking. Where is he? What's the problem with this trial we're proposing? We have only followed the recommendation of Europe; "abri un amplio diálogo pollenítico para gestion de estos fandos." Es decir, luz y taquígraphos, para se pueda optar a todo esto con base un principio de guind. In the meantime, the amendment which the sects that maintain the government, concluded with the government, is extraordinary. Amazing. You see, in the answers given in the plune of the control, he said: "We are ready to accept your help. You said you're gonna help and we're ready to accept that help." The question is how you're gonna get help. How? I, at least, would ask you to answer a question this evening: In the proposal you made, where is the mechanism of receiving this help that we are prepared to give? We can't find him. We told you the other day: if you want to go to the neighbourhood, you'll have to call the neighbourhood. And today, and even today, your proposal, and your headlines, there's no phone call for the neighbourhood. We made an attempt yesterday on your amendment. We told you that we wanted to make an effort to agree to some of the minimum, and we made a suggestion for you. What was the answer? : "We have consulted the government, and they prefer our repentance. There's no deal." Begin luego, Lucas. Well, I put "hasta luego, Lucas." We, we really say, finish the dybaet, go on with all our will and work together. We know it's a great responsibility, and we're sorry, but you'll have to admit you don't put it easy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u2	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the popular Basque Group, representative of the Ciudadans, Mrs. Larrea, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In the end, we're always with the same thing. With regard to the subject before us today, with regard to the EUR 60 billion that the European Union will hand over to Spain, the questions that anyone would think of or think of are three: when, how and for what. For the first question, it is already known that something may happen in the spring of 2021. But, really, what they say in Europe is that probably until the autumn, October 2021, nothing comes here. So the first question is already answered. The answer is not very optimistic for Basques. In the second question, in how, is where any citizen is surprised and put his hands to the head. Anyone would think that so much money will be used to repair the economic damage it has caused and that it is causing the pandemic throughout Basque society and Spanish society. But it turns out not, that this, here in Euskadi will only bring it to you warm a few if we continue with the management that you are carrying out. And when I say the usual, I think of a lot of companies, a lot of Basque societies that are always supported and blessed by the hand of the governments that you support. And I'm not going to quote them because it would look ugly, but we all know what we're talking about. I ask this question, what real percentage of all this huge amount of money is going to receive Basque society, Basque families? Are you going to rebuild the country this way? And it is true that there are families that are directly or indirectly related to these companies mentioned in the Pricewaterhouse Coopers report, but it does not reach all. Is this the government program you have to rebuild the country after this pandemic that is beating us all? They know that if the distribution is done in their own way it will not be fair or equitable nor will it reach the families nor will we be resilient, as the Next Generation funds in the European Union demand. Look, we know perfectly well what we don't have to do with an economic recovery plan. We're all familiar with Zapatero's Plan E. Huge amounts of money were used in finite works over time, which did not boost the country's economy at all. Do you guys want to repeat an E-Euskadi plan? Do the Basques deserve this? But the important thing is that we're on time. Today the deadline begins, on October 15 the deadline begins to present to the European Union the drafts of the states to finance the projects that they create opportune. And here I am reminded of the words of Mr Urkullu – who is not here right now, but...– of "the hand stretched out", "dialogue with the opposition", "we are going to make country". Where have you been? This project, which you hired or commissioned from Pricewaterhouse Coopers to decide which projects were to be submitted to the Government, was closed on 12 August. You already had that report. There was the Permanent Table. You could have calmly started to dialogue with the Permanent Table to find out what we wanted, what was wanted in the Basque Country for Euskadi, what plan we were going to form for Euskadi, how we were going to recover Euskadi. You haven't dealt with anyone. You have marked yourself a "I eat it and I eat it, and we move on." And this can't go on like this. We, the People's Party-Citizens, are not going to allow you to continue like this. I'm going to go even further. And I want to explicitly mention what I am going to say now, and I want you to understand, there are a lot of people – small entrepreneurs – who don't know how long they're going to be able to resist this crisis, who don't know if in a few months they're going to have to close their shops, who don't know if they're going to have to close their businesses and fire all those people who are on ERTE but who can soon be on the street. And a plan of these characteristics would have to be to support all those companies, all those directives, all those investments that entrepreneurs can make in R & D+i, so that this country is a better country where jobs are created and the economy of the Basque Country is regained with resilience, and you have not done so. But now we're on time. Now they have to talk. You have an obligation to dialogue because if not, what government are you forming? You alone? Again, do I eat it and eat it? But let's see – and I'm going to focus a little bit on what I'm saying – the European Union makes available to all member states 75 billion euros; 75 billion euros, of which 60.0 00 million go to Spain completely lost. And what the European Union is saying is that it wants an instrument to support the Member States' efforts to recover and repair the damage and to get out strengthened from this crisis; measures to boost private investment and support companies in difficulty. Yes, sir, companies in difficulty. Strengthen key EU programmes to extend lessons learned from the crisis and make the single market strong and resilient, and accelerate the dual ecological and digital transition. The most important thing to get out of this issue, in order to focus, is that it is a subsidy that the Government of Spain will receive for projects that are presented in the European Union. And we're on time, gentlemen, we're on time. And the important thing is that these projects go to grants in the best of situations. And therefore, I ask you to choose the projects that best identify with the key programmes of the European Union, that fit in with the idea of creating a stronger and resilient single market and that accelerate the dual energy transition – I repeat again –. European funding cannot be allocated to cover current expenditure, but must be devoted to specific projects. European funding and projects should be used to improve our competitiveness, the administration itself and modernise the institutions. That is to say, it is linked funding that we must use to modernize the country and to undertake the reforms that are still pending. Specific projects should be chosen on the basis of open, competitive procedures, i.e. based on the principles of transparency and free competition. So, gentlemen, stop opacities. And I am going to appoint again the consultant Pricewaterhouse Coopers, who presides Asier Atutxa in his Spanish subsidiary, which seems to be art and part of the distribution of European subsidies for a project that, if it did not receive such a grant, would run out of funds for the economic situation that plagues us. It's a little flashy. And, understand me what I mean when I say "it's flashy," everyone who thinks what they want. That's why I want to talk to you seriously, I want to talk to you all seriously, and tell you that my group, again, is not going to allow this kind of opaque action to be perpetuated. And that is why we propose that the projects that are presented to the government of Pedro Sánchez be projects above all consensual with all the social actors to alleviate, really bring back, the economic crisis generated by the covid. Fear makes me late. You had time to reach out to the parties and the opposition. He had time to talk to Euskadi's business agents and still has time. However, it still has time to regenerate, remake those reports, those projects that go to Madrid. I fully understand the impotence of Basque entrepreneurs, self-employed people, SMEs and so on. They have not been given an opportunity to present their projects. You, first of all, what you wanted to do was a snake and help those who always want to help. But there are also mechanisms of the CEOE. The CEOE has opened a mechanism, CEOE for Europe, and has set up a virtual office to advise companies and SMEs to present their projects and access grants. It is important that all self-employed people, that all entrepreneurs know that they have an opportunity at the CEOE that perhaps we have not given it to them here. We could have given it to you, you could have generated that project, you haven't. I am afraid that, because we do not manage well, we can lose or, rather, let a high percentage of the European Union grant escape so that we can get out of the crisis as soon as possible. Therefore, we propose the creation of an open competition process, based on the principles of transparency and free competition for the allocation of Next Generation funds to projects that are chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u5	Yes, thank you, President. Vicelehendakaris, where we are. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the socialists have made public the need to face this crisis as an opportunity to emerge from it as a more cohesive society, with a strengthened welfare state and in which inequalities are reduced. The pandemic has highlighted a profound global health, economic and social crisis and, by focusing more on the issue we are dealing with today, also at European level. Today we are clear that the recovery of economic activity must be geared towards modernizing our productive model on the basis of a new social contract for the protection of the welfare state, the closure of social gaps and inclusive growth throughout the territory within environmental limits. The Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, presented a few days ago by the Government of Spain, mentions the European Union's response to the crisis through the Next Generation Europe fund. A common response at European level and in the short term, with a monetary and fiscal policy that provides an appropriate funding framework for national responses, protecting the smooth functioning of the common market so that all companies can operate under the same conditions and developing common safety and health protocols. And also, as far as we are concerned right now, it has provided a medium-term response, setting in motion an ambitious fund for recovery and resilience in line with what the process of rebuilding economies in the post-covid world needs from 2021 onwards. From Euskadi was sent in May, both to the European Commission and to the Government of Spain itself, a document called Basque Vision for a European Union Recovery Plan And on 21 July, a historic milestone was reached with the agreement of the European Council to mobilise, in response to this exceptional situation, EUR 75 billion financed by the Community debt issue, which, together with the 1,074 billion of the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, will enable an unprecedented volume of investment to be addressed in the coming years. The new Next Generation Europe recovery fund will enable Spain to mobilise a volume of investment with a forecast of up to EUR 140 billion in transfers and credits over the next 6 years, accounting for 11% of 2019's GDP. Each Member State will submit a recovery and resilience plan to the European Commission, taking into account the recommendations made to each country, as well as the potential for growth, job creation, economic and social resilience, green transition and digital transition. And the Government of Spain has presented the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan as a country project that outlines the road map for the modernization of the Spanish economy, the recovery of economic growth and the creation of jobs to rebuild economically and solidly, in addition to an inclusive and resilient environment, following the crisis of the covid and to respond to the challenges of the next decade. For the Basque Government, as expressed in the Government Agreement of 1 September, the key objective at the current juncture is the implementation and strengthening of the public health system, as well as the social and economic reconstruction of Euskadi, which will enable Basque society to prepare for all the emerging challenges that the pandemic has only accelerated. There is therefore a complete and absolute correspondence of the objectives of the Basque Government with the objectives of the Spanish Government in modernising the economies, in recovering economic growth and in creating jobs for the solid, inclusive and resilient economic reconstruction of Euskadi following the crisis of the covid and also to respond to the challenges we face in the next decade. And with this desire, work is being done on the development of the Euskadi recovery and resilience programme, the so-called Euskadi Next, based on the identification of interdepartmental and inter-institutional public projects, as well as on public-private projects that can fit within this framework that the European Union has established. And the steps for the elaboration of this Euskadi Next 2021-2026 are: first, to define the strategic approach and conceptual framework in charge of the Department of Economics and Finance to collect in a vertebrate, coherent and cohesive way the actions that are planned until 2023 and that will be implemented until 2026, so that these actions are aligned with the criteria established by the European Union in its commitment for recovery in terms of themes, contents, deadlines, milestones and monitoring indicators, etc. Secondly, the collection of project information from the guide presented by the Commission on 7 September. They must be projects that meet our present and future needs. The technical analysis on the suitability of the submitted projects will also be carried out. A final decision will be taken on the projects to be incorporated into this programme, which is the responsibility of the Governing Council, following the prior approval of the interdepartmental commission in which all the investment departments will participate and, in addition, the Department of Economy and Finance and the Lehendakaritza itself. These projects will respond to four general objectives, taking into account ten themes or levers: increased renewable energy; support for electric mobility; rehabilitation and energy efficiency; 5G; digitisation of administration, industry and SMEs; improvement of cloud services; big data With regard to the management of the Next Generation fund, we start from the fact that the European cohesion policy, the planning and analysis of European recovery and resilience funds are allocated to the Department of Economics and Finance – one of its functions – of European cohesion policy. In addition, a few days ago the Lehendakari himself announced the establishment of an organization capable of responding to the enormous multi-level challenge and which takes into account all Basque public administrations and socio-economic actors and actors. At the State level, relational formulas have been identified by the State Administration with the autonomous communities and with local entities, with various elements of governance and co-governance being reactivated, such as the Sectoral Conference for the European Funds; and several forums or advisory councils will also be activated as forums for discussion, advice and monitoring of programmes. And while it is the intention of the State, to ensure the proper execution and channelling of funds, to strengthen and create structures for implementation, monitoring and coordination that allow public-private inter-ministerial collaboration with the autonomous communities and with local entities themselves, it is true that not all these structures are yet determined. Therefore, in the current circumstances and level of development of the projects the Basque socialists together with the Basque nationalists have proposed an amendment urging the Basque Government to first design the appropriate and timely methodology to complete the elaboration of a recovery and resilience programme of Euskadi as a contribution to the recovery and resilience plan that the Spanish State will have to submit to the European Union within this framework of the recovery and resilience mechanism that forms part of the Next Generation Europe initiative. The Euskadi recovery and resilience programme shall include, in a vertebrate, coherent and also cohesive manner, actions and projects planned up to 2023 and implemented up to 2026, which shall be actions that are in line with the criteria laid down by the European Union in that commitment for economic recovery and economic, social and also territorial cohesion. Secondly, we propose in our amendment to establish a framework for coordination and dialogue between the various departments of the Government, as well as a capable and flexible organization that responds to the enormous multi-level challenge that this Next Generation Fund initiative will pose. To establish a model of dialogue – here is your answer, Mr Otero –, to establish a model of dialogue and, where appropriate, to integrate proposals with the rest of the public administrations of Euskadi, social partners and socio-economic actors, in order to ensure the coherence and viability of the proposed initiatives, and to enable the successful implementation of this programme in the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. All this within the model required by the European Union of key milestones and deadlines. Fourthly, we want this Parliament to be made aware of the actions and projects that integrate the recovery and resilience programme of Euskadi and to be regularly informed of its implementation. It must therefore be recognized that we are facing a complex challenge, in a process that is, moreover, incipient, in which there are details and issues that still entail doubts that need to be cleared up and, moreover, uncertainties that need to be resolved. This same Tuesday we saw, for example, how at the start of the negotiations between the Council and the European Parliament to link the post-covid recovery fund and the European budget from 2021 to 2027, on the rule of law, there was no progress. Negotiations were closed without any progress. That is why the Basque Government's commitment to tackle this challenge – which is complex – is relevant with responsibility and also from a collaborative, interinstitutional and politically collaborative spirit. And this is what we say in our amendment, which we believe reflects and resolves many or some of the concerns raised by Euskal Herria Bildu regarding political dialogue and the creation of a structure for the management of the Next Generation fund itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Euneraries, Mr Aguirre, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u7	Thank you, CEO. Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Mr. Otero made the conversation about European funds 15 days ago, and now it's time for us to examine his motion. Also today, I think we'll have a lot of motive, won't we? We all know that it is a common dynamic, but it is true that it is often the mere repetition of the same arguments already expressed. And even today the words of Otero have been exactly the same. To me, at least, always provokes the motion a kind of feeling of deja vu remake But let us return to today's subject and to Mr Otero's concerns, which I sometimes not only understand, but also share. Not in all respects, in some. Mikel Otero stressed the importance of the funds proposed by the European Commission in May and approved by the Council on 21 July. In his motion he said "that in a context of a marked fall in gross domestic product and collection, the mechanisms that Europe has put in place can be of extraordinary importance to meet our immediate challenges". Indeed, I fully agree with him. COVID-19, unfortunately, has killed thousands of people. Besides, he's caused the loss and compression of employments. Thousands of families are sunk and found in a very difficult situation, and society is in a very difficult condition. It must therefore be our priority to remake jobs. And we hope, through the aid of Europe, that the recovery of the economy will be faster. The State aims to be able to access €140 billion in three years, a share in transfers that are lost fund grants, for an amount of €72.2 billion, and the rest, €67.3 billion, in credits. So more than half, they'll be scholarships and the other half loans. In any case, some specific projects should be presented to help. And besides that, they must all go the way Europe is marked, and be finished in three years' time. That means a project that shows maturity should be introduced. We can't begin to think what we can do for three years now. They must be long-considered enterprises: the cultivated in their conception, and the means to be met with after a profound examination. Some are presented by public institutions, others by social agents, and third by myths. Projects cannot be simple occurrences from day to day. I think they should be very thought-out and practically pre-production plans. I believe that we cannot and should not simply submit projects because there is now European money. We need to have a portfolio of projects that, with or without the help, would be developed in a more or less short time, but now, with the help of Brussels, will speed up their implementation. However, at the moment, and I would like to highlight in particular the problem, the process of presenting, evaluating and approving investment plans and the times are nothing clear or diaphanous. A lot of details remain to be clarified. In his question, Mr Otero questioned the list of projects that the Lehendakari handed over to the President of the Government, to President Sánchez. The Basque Government has already clarified last week, but I will repeat this, that it was a work of collecting projects of an institutional nature, on the one hand, and of public-private initiative, on the other, which, potentially, could achieve aid such as those envisaged in the European initiatives. The objective of the Basque Government, what was it? That from the outset there were projects prepared from Euskadi and that the priorities of the Basque Government were present at President Sánchez's table. And so was the lehendakari at the last Conference of Presidents. I am convinced that Euskadi will present quality projects, and that we will be able to make progress in the different areas of the European Union: ecological transition, digital transition and, of course, social cohesion. But I believe that the criterion for the allocation of funds, both at European and State level, and also here in the Autonomous Community, must be the quality of the projects. Mr Otero also asked or wondered whether the Basque Government intended to share with the opposition groups criteria for selecting projects for European funds. Look, I am convinced that the government will follow the criteria set by the European Union. But at the moment it has already prepared a procedure to share it, first, internally and then proceed to its contrast with public institutions and economic and social actors. I therefore imagine that the procedure will also have some evolution. It is an eminently technical task because all projects, of course, must comply with the criteria of the European Union, which we do not currently know about exact conditions. It is possible that on the next 26th day, with the Conference of Presidents and the possible presence of the President, the Commission, Mrs Von der Leyen, will make further progress in the definition. And it is also possible that, as Mrs Corcuera has already said, the next Sectoral Conference of European Funds will shed light on the picture. But in the coming weeks, the Basque Government is going to draw up a technical document which not only meets the criteria of Europe, but also combines Community requirements with the interests of activation and the creation of employment opportunities. I repeat, at this moment we are at a very early stage. Eta esamolde frantses batek esaten two bezala: presezkoa da itxarotea. We can't start running like headless chicken. And I think, for the time being, the urgent thing is to wait. Not much, but wait a little while for the panorama to clear up. That's why I'd ask for some patience until the situation clears up. We know the main axis, not technical conditions. Let public institutions begin to produce different projects which have kept the socioniums of sociation, to present and examine at its moment. I think the Giupic Fordinous Foru has done that for two weeks ago, he's taken several projects. And probably they'll show up. Together with the Socialist Group, we have tabled an amendment in its entirety, the terms of which I am not going to repeat, but, well, the Government is being asked to take a number of measures to ensure, on the one hand, the successful implementation of the programme, coherence and feasibility of the proposed initiatives and, of course, to inform this Parliament systematically. We believe that our amendment is better and much more realistic than the original proposal by Mr Otero. Eta ez kezkatu, Otero jauna, gauzak where the egingo will say. I believe that there will be dialogue with all relevant actors, as the President of the European Commission said. And that's why we'll protect our correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u8	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Soto, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u9	Hello, good morning. "Suddenly, the world changed and, with it, our lives and our priorities. COVID 19 has exposed the strengths, but also the frailties of our productive and social welfare systems, calling for the revision and reorientation of our future public policies to confront the new world." These are not my words, they are the words of Mr. Ortuzar. Who wouldn't agree with them? I am convinced that all of us here agree. To us, hearing those words all that led us to think is that we had put ourselves in a common place, and that we had adopted the perspective of working for life, for the public and for the common. But, unfortunately, in view of the list of possible investments to be chosen for the European fund that we have found, these words are nothing but common places, phrases made, probably aimed at a momentarily sensitised public. It is something that PNV has well-accustomed to innumerable public statements. In the end, we always end up in the same, which is the public-private initiative. That said, anyone would take the medicine, that is, the medicine of the public-private. It is part of that language that has been so much instilled in us, especially my generation. Part of that dogma of faith that Mr.Egibar very rightly summed up in a rhetorical question he asked in the full investiture of leftist political forces, which was: "Do you know any examples of wealth generation from the public?". He hit us. Yes, the public generates wealth. What doesn't generate is dividends. And, surely, that's the bottom line when we're talking about these investments that the PNV has decided to incorporate in its letter to the Magi; I suppose this from the letter to the Magi has a lot to do with republishing the monarchy. We are talking about direct funding lines, without counterpart, to a number of Basque corporations. Half of the investment, as already said 15 days ago, was directed to Petronor, Iberdrola and TAV. We and we wonder what kind of natural law assists certain consultants or companies, to have the investment capacity of the administrations in them. What has been the process that has determined that Pricewaterhouse Coopers defines or compiles – as has been said here – this series of investments. Because the amendment to the whole presented states that a methodology will be developed to deal with joint work by the institutions, as well as the different collectives. But Pricewaterhouse Coopers has already participated in the process without any previously defined methodology. And, in fact, that compilation document had not been made public. There is therefore something wrong here with the amendment's approach to the whole, because it realizes that it is a response to something that was presented here 15 days ago, and that if not, that new working methodology for cooperation and development in common from the different institutions and from civil society would not have been raised. On the other hand, what is the reason for such a rush? If it is not clear what the system of participation is going to be and we have to wait for subsequent meetings with the central government, what is the reason for the rush in sending this draft investment collection? We understand, on the one hand, the urgency of submitting preliminary drafts to the European Commission, but we are still, as has been said here, in drafts. Would it not have been opportune to open this process of dialogue with society to collect other proposals instead of pulling from the catalogue of old projects? Because, in the end, we find it somewhat cynical to say – how it was just said – that we could not approach new projects and start working on them, but we had to start from some already developed to be taken into account, as if the only ones on that list were those developed or worked over the last few years. It is clear that a plan to rebuild the economy after the pandemic requires greater economic planning. It is necessary to raise your eyesight and to live up to the historical moment, to make decisions on a larger temporal horizon, between all and all. And, above all, come out of institutional inertias, long-standing, that have brought us here. We recognize, in any case, the complexity of implementing large budget lines with a framed design, and that it is necessary to design and execute within a very limited time horizon. It's not easy. And that is why the necessary public devices must be created to capitalize on this opportunity and change course. Now, if the challenge is capital, we must live up to it. It is not worth taking refuge in that part of the so reactionary refrain, and appealing to that of "the worse known" – that is, the investments collected in the list presented to the central government – "the better to know" – that would be new opportunities to open up the fruit of cooperation between institutions and civil society. The situation is dramatic. And, indeed, the pandemic has plagued everyone. But wouldn't we have been better prepared if we hadn't listened as advanced students to the austereicide of the last decade? If that was a mistake that we now corrected with such grandiose phrases – which we heard 15 days ago as well – as that "we will be indebted as far as we need it", let us also pay attention to the past, to what we have experienced, and let us not apply another lie or mantra – better – failed: the brick and the big corporations are the solution. No, they're not. That model is fragile and unstable and has proved it in recent decades. He showed his cracks when he hit us with a virus. We cannot delegate responsibility for recovery again to large multinationals and foreign capital. This formula has already left us with a chaotic economy, with loss of industrial fabric, deterioration of the quality of employment and growing inequality, especially for young people. We think that a new plan is not being drawn up, but that it is being used to compensate for the fall in tax revenue with which old projects were intended to be financed and, now, in view of the lack of collection, it is drawing from the indebtedness and also from these European funds; but not to make a real conversion of the economy in Euskadi, but to finance projects that, in one way or another, were to be financed already in the past. I am not going to go into the retail of investments which, in our view, are in many cases shameful and which, of course, do not meet the aims and objectives that have been said here that European funds are being pursued. Finally, we could go into quite a few examples of them, for example – and since at the beginning of my speech I mentioned the public-private: 1,706 million for three public-private projects of Iberdrola, 1,120 million euros in the construction of a gigafactory of lithium ion batteries – which has already been mentioned – 330 million euros for the hydrogen corridor decarbonisation pole – basically lacks the development of a spaceship. That is to say, it is the large polluting companies in Euskadi that are going to get us out or that are going to get us to meet the targets set for 2030. It is absolutely incomprehensible that this compilation of projects has been chosen. We also believe that there must be a great deal of commitment to strengthen, first of all, those sectors which have shown the most that they are essential for life and that, moreover, they have been undermined by the cutbacks policies of recent years. We believe that a guaranteed employment programme linked to health, education and residential services for older people must also be linked to investments in adequate infrastructure in these sectors. Which are on that list, by the way, the great forgotten: health and education. In any case, if our group is going to support the initiative of the proposing group – and would support any initiative in this line – it is not so much for criticism – which also – of the list of investments proposed by the Basque Government, but because it opens the window to collaboration and cooperation at institutional level and also with civil society. They are constantly talking from the Government, and also from the PNV, about this new governance, but we do not understand very well what it is about; of course, not something new. It's the oldest in the world, like the projects on the list, decide you and you, and we basically don't participate. Once again, a crucial decision for the future of Euskadi that has been made in the office of four people that we, in the end, also consider to be part of an extractive elite that will not address from the general interest the list of investments that we would raise. And as time runs out, simply reiterate our support for the proposal put forward by the proposing group. Finally, I would like to ask the Basque Government, and in this case also the parties that support it, to open the fan a little and also to allow civil society, the trade unions, the political groups represented here, to participate in this possible elaboration, and not to limit themselves to external consultants who are not subject to any process guaranteed by the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u10	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing on the answers, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u11	Yes, in short. Mrs Corcuera, when I asked Azpiazu, I said to him, "I want to believe that the Basque Socialist Party has had nothing to do with this story." I think what happened next gave me reason. And it gives me the feeling that the Socialist Party of Euskadi is ringing. He's playing with his ears completely. That is, there is a part of your intervention that refers to what the Government of Spain has done, it has sold us the plan of the State – I could understand it, it is not the framework, I think, but I could understand it – but there is another part where you have acted loyally to the Government – that can also be understood and that is what makes them responsible for the whole process as well. Of course, what he does is he takes the process that has been followed for granted. The process you're being told to say has been followed, because it's not what you've told us here. You told us about first defining, then collecting, then selecting. But this hasn't happened. What has happened here is that a private consultant has been commissioned to take some projects, to talk to three companies and a deputy, and to run to Madrid, without consulting you and without telling you what was going on. To such an extent that, after this jumped, and after Arantxa Tapia recognized in the Chain Being that this, indeed, had been done by Asier Atutxa and Pricewaterhouse Coopers, three days later, this Sunday, Idoia Mendia still said that she did not know how it had been done, that she did not believe that it had been done on the basis of a private consultant. Something that was taken care of at the beginning of August, on 10 October, the president of the Basque Socialist Party and vice-president of the Basque Government do not know how this has been done. And then you come to tell the rest of us a process they say they've followed, when it hasn't been followed. From there... I don't know, I don't know what else you can tell us. Eta Aguirre jaunari, berdintsu dung nizuke. I'm afraid you're wrong. I'm afraid you're wrong. Zuk esaten duzu azterketa sakona duten pecuektuak aurkeztu behar say it, "projects that are prepared, you cannot walk like chickens without head." And it turns out that it has already been sent to Madrid, and it is the only thing that Madrid has on the table today – today that the deadline is opened in Europe – a list of projects of which half are in conceptual development. Conceptual development, which is equivalent to "it has occurred to me". So, it comes to us to sell a supposed seriousness with which this is being done, which I don't see anywhere. And you say, "Now there will be a way of defining it, and don't worry, things will be all right." Are things going to be okay? Well, what we've done so far doesn't make us hope. And your proposal gives us no guarantee. Here, in the opening of the division and the process, we have put the harpsichord into an strategic office, which will take place before the end of a month, where all the interested agents of this country will have room to participate in Omnipotento, political, union, institutional, and so on. This is a kind of thing that can be strategically defined and carried forward. Baina zuek esaten duzue: "Establish an interview model" Set what model? Where's the model? When? Who? As a model? Because a model of interlocution can be: "Pass when you have a free time for Sabin Etxea". That's a model of interlocution. I mean, is this what you're asking us to approve? I mean, let us leave everything in your hands, in the confidence that you do it well, after the tour, the history we carry with this topic, so that you do it very well? Of course! In any case, you people who support the government today don't refuse to propose to the Basque Country. You're saying that so many teams, operators, academics, corporations, world people, etc., and so on. You're doing it with the proposition you've made, condemn our economic sectors to the Madrid for a place in the office where CEOE opened, because there are offices open. There's an office open in the Navarre. He's in Madrid. Maybe they're not our type, but there's offices open. You won't open an office. You come to us, and we'll see what we've got, won't we? It seems to me that it is by no means serious about what is above us. I want to finish saying we're a small town and we're in front of a big storm. And we can't forget that. We can't afford to fail. And if they want co-responsibility, they have to leave that "toy is mine and nobody touches it" attitude because it's too important what's at stake. The Basque Country is here to collect. And we'll stay here and make proposals. You see, we won't give up because this town deserves it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u12	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs. Larrea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u13	Let's see, the key here is the order in which things have been done. And I'm surprised that you come to tell us that the order would be to choose, to open a dialogue... What dialogue? What dialogue have you had? Are you going to start now, once the Government of Spain already has a draft? The draft that you have prepared, that you have commissioned to prepare? And, really, I pick up Mr. Otero's words. Let's see, the key here is transparency, free competition. And in other communities, in June or July, parliamentary committees were set up. Of course, but you took advantage of the fact that here Parliament was dissolved and you did not resort to the Permanent Chamber. They could have gone to the Permanent Chamber to talk about what proposals we had for the Basque Country. He's given them the same. It's just, really, I'm alluding to "I eat it, I eat it." If you do it alone. You have spoken right now about the criteria you have taken into account for the projects. What criteria? Explain them, because we still don't know what they are. And the next thing I want to say to you is, do you first assign projects and then explain the criteria? How are they going to do it? Are we going to keep working like this? This is no way to work in a serious parliament. This is no way to work in the Basque Country. We're serious, we're serious, and let's give him the importance he has. They are funds for the recovery of the Basque Country, for the recovery of the states of the European Union, for the recovery of Spain, and we are playing to obscurantism, opacity. And this is no time for that. We are at the moment of recovering the damage caused by the pandemic, the economic damage caused by the pandemic. And this is no way to act, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u15	Good. Thank you, President. The need for a proactive Europe in the solution of the global economic crises that we have suffered has long been called for. And, although the process is still very incipient – some seem not to want to see it – and must be concrete and consolidated, Europe's response has now offered tools (different financial and economic tools) that are, moreover, fundamental to turning the immediate challenges posed by the pandemic, really, into an opportunity. It is therefore a historic milestone, and the Basque, Spanish and European socialists have been demanding this attitude on the part of Europe insistently. And, as he did to them, we have various financial instruments from Europe; each, in addition, with its own regulation, with its own objectives. Therefore, here we try to make some concrete, when it turns out that they are a varied range of European funds for that economic transformation that is required to get out of the pandemic in the best conditions and to solve a global economic fall. We know that, in addition, we have this multi-annual financial framework, 2021-2027, of EUR 1,074 billion; we have REACT-Europe and, in addition, the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, which is the core of this Next Generation Europe fund. Therefore, we know that the Next Generation recovery and resilience plan aims to accelerate transformative changes and make great strategies to recover the GDP lost by the crisis and boost greater competitiveness of companies. The general rule is that non-recurring costs are not financed, that they involve structural change and that they also have a lasting impact on resilience. We know that REACT-Europe, which will operate as the structural funds but with greater flexibility, will promote the ecological, digital and resilient recovery of the economy. Yesterday the Minister of Finance said, in response to a question from his colleague the deputy Oskar Matute, who had already proceeded to the allocation of the 10 billion to the autonomous communities, through the REACT-Europe Fund for the next two years, and that more than 2 billion – 2,300 or 2,400, I do not remember now exactly the figure – would be left to the Ministry of Health to precisely make a centralized purchase of sanitary material to then reassign to the autonomous communities that require it. And the minister said that, based on the definition of recovery and resilience projects, it will be necessary to see how and how they will be agreed with the autonomous communities and the municipalities, for which a conference of autonomous presidents is already prepared. Therefore, if we do not want to see it, we do not see it; but that this is still in an incipient process, it is so, yes or yes. That does not take away so that we do not move forward, that does not take away so that we do not work and that we cannot, moreover, improve in the work process. There is a commitment to establish a model of dialogue, integration of proposals, with the Basque public administrations, with the social partners of Euskadi, with the socio-economic actors, which also ensure that the proposals are coherent and viable, and which also aligns with the demands that come from Europe in order to meet these challenges with these funds. But Euskal Herria Bildu part of the slogan that there is no dialogue, that the projects that do not count on his approval are invalidated, and yet the Basque Socialists are talking and we propose frameworks of dialogue, frameworks of collaboration that, according to the processes of the different tools and the different funds, they will have to be put on the table. But you guys, no, it has to be now. You said, Mr. Otero, you were talking about that model of interlocution when, who, how?; from the strategic office, when?, who?, how?... Today they're not told no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no But you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't. Mr Soto said before that no opening approach had been taken. Look, it's just that you haven't tabled any amendments. It would have been interesting if Elkarrekin Podemos and Izquierda Unita had tabled an amendment so that the groups that we support the Government could have tried at least to negotiate. The channel is open, the channel will be adopted today with that amendment that we have proposed. Therefore, today is not said no Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Euneraries, Mr Aguirre, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u17	Yes, thank you, CEO. Mr. Otero, I'm going to quote a couple of things I didn't tell you in the previous round. But first, you must read a point of your motion. Second point, letter a: The parliamentor asks me to make a strategic reflection about the projects that the Euskal Autonomys produce and directs, to reach our social roots, and to bury the Basque People here and now in 2030. I don't know what you mean by this, what the Basque Country is to you: one, four, one, seven... I don't know. But besides, the Basque Country that we represent in 2030... I don't know. Mental Confusion Conceptual confusion mixing autonomous community and Euskal Herria, but also asks the Basque Government for a strategic reflection on projects that the autonomous community implements, and materialize here and now – hic et nunc hic et nunc – On the other hand, in October 2nd interpelations, you mentioned so many concerns. For instance, the management of the funds of the European Union would be in the hands of the Government of the State, and our project would first be made use of, and Europe afterwards. That the management of the funds would be in the hands of the Government of the State and that that meant a lack, a problem, as well as another demonstration of our lack of sovereignty. I share this concern with you. And I'd say even more, that complaint. I'm really glad you're in 2020, you're meeting EH on this subject. We have always maintained the same principle, in foro interno in foro externo. It is a good thing that EH Bildu has realized at this point that the route from Euskadi to Brussels was passing through Madrid. Well, look, the Basque government already saw it in 1986. And that was the reason why the representative office was opened before what was still the European Economic Community. In March of 87, already formed the second Ardanza cabinet, the office went on to hang from the Department of Presidency, Justice and Autonomic Development. And the role of that office was to support and advise the Basque administration in general, as well as to act as a body of general relations and coordination with the European institutions. Everyone is aware of the central government's 88th appeal, the Constitutional Court's 94th ruling, which, unusually, gave us reason. Today, the Basque delegation in Brussels is working in full normality, and I would also say that very effectively. But when the Maastricht Treaty was launched in 1993, allowing sub-states to participate in the Councils of Ministers – they were still called this – in the European Union, we asked that the same thing as Germany or Austria did with the Länder. After eleven years of explanations, solid arguments, tenacious insistence – We will continue to promote Euskadi's participation in the European project. And I think that's what the government program says. But let me tell you something. If you had demanded such representation since 1986 – like us or otherwise – I am convinced that today Euskadi, like Flanders, would not only have participated but would have presided over more than one Council of the European Union. But his world wasn't about work. Your world wasn't on those priorities. But I assure you that if you had been in those struggles, and not in others, you would have saved this country many years of suffering and pain and we would have made much more progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u18	Thank you, Mr Aguire. We represent the Podemos-IU team together. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u19	This last exercise in historical memory is to be thanked, but I thought we were talking about the future, the present and the future. But, in any case, thank you for contextualizing certain things. But, I insist, I thought we were talking about the future and half of the intervention was to talk about what was not done 30 years ago. In an initial intervention, it was said that the relevant actors would be available. In addition, this specific expression – which I have been drawn to the attention of – has been used: "The relevant actors will be taken into account for the process of cooperation and articulation of the list of investments that are to be made or materialised through European funds". I just don't know what the relevant agents are, except the one you've already participated in, which is an external consultant, without any kind of competition process, which is Pricewaterhouse Coopers. So, that's the relevant agent I know so far. Then, on the other hand, historical milestone, it has also been said. Yes, indeed, it is a historic milestone the end of austerity, the openness to debt capacity. I hope that this would also have been applied as a historical fact before the adoption of Article 135, which applied precisely the opposite of what European funds entail and also the current borrowing capacity. It has also been said that we have not tabled an amendment and that therefore we cannot reach an agreement with Elkarrekin Podemos-IU on what the groups supporting the Basque Government were proposing. Man, I just think that either we don't know or we don't want to know. It is that the process of participation in dealing with this issue took place months ago when that list of investments was sent out. And, surely, in that process, as has already been said, the Socialist Party did not even take part. So, the same at that time is when everyone, including you, should have participated. Precisely when we talk more about building large country consensuses, that everyone pulls their shoulder, of auzolan So this has been, as has been said above, a little what has happened to the parties that support the Government to get out of the passage and the shameful moment that they lived, 15 days ago and the days after, in relation to assuming that list of investments, which has been said to be a compilation, that they are investment projects that have been working on before, that could not be invented new ones. But they are very concrete and they are also politically very determined. And I am convinced that some of them are not too funny to the Socialist Party. When the pandemic has proven that it is necessary to review and reverse relocation processes, you speak on that list of doubling the stake for low-cost internationalization When everyone knows that it is about calming mobility, you continue to bet and, even more, wanting to devote extraordinary resources to obscenely expensive infrastructures – the TAV has been there for 13 years to finish, let us hope that now that Mr Arriola has assumed the portfolio will end as soon as possible – and absolutely lapses, that not only emit tons of CO 2 to the atmosphere during its construction, but they contribute to perpetuating the car as the main form of mobility. And when it comes to – and with this I am going to finish, and it is very important – watering the small and medium-sized productive and commercial fabric, you intend to allocate half of these extraordinary resources – designed for a 180-degree change in certain subjects – to doping large corporations like Iberdrola that, not satisfied with having multimillionaire benefits, are also involved in scandals of all kinds. We believe that these investments do not meet the objectives set by the European funds. Let us hope that the response to certain of these investments, if any, will be negative when the time comes, that the process that the parties that are supporting the Government are saying is to be re-launched or articulated in the coming weeks, and that we will have the opportunity both of this House's political groups and of civil society to put forward different, diametrically different initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u20	Thank you, Mr. Soto. The discussion is over and we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Otero Gabirozoa. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 74; in favour 26; on the contrary, 49; abstaining, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u21	Original text therefore not allowed. Next, we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudads. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 74; supporters, 32; contraries, 42; abstainments, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u22	So it's not accepted. And in the end, we will vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eunus Abertarian patriots. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 42; the contrary, 32; the abstations, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u23	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Mutation, introduced together by you as members of the Podemos-IU, about the beginning of the year. Discipline and final resolution. The proposor's turn, Martínezin, is your word to introduce and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u24	Good morning. Thank you. We'll discuss education and the beginning of the whole meeting again. At this very beginning with some certainty. Again, I say we're glad, but we can be pretty good at the start of the course, because it's happening pretty well with the problems, but it's pretty good. But even some uncertainty maintains itself. As Mr. Aguire has said, the motives also remember what was said at the moment of the interpelration, it's normal. But we'll try to tell you something else today. And I shall repeat, as he says in the interpelation, that we have proposed a building proposition and a possible one; and that in the medium in which we have agreed with the EH Collect Group, some things I think are sufficient to be done. In the same way, I would like to repeat that the beginning of this course is working well, especially for the work of scholars, families, professors, and workmen from different schools. We have seen in the last few days the chief of the Union in various places, in the answers given to us in interpelation, and in the different conversations he has made in certain media, present, predicting different things, and, in fact, we know that some things have been put into action. But in the last few days, as in the last couple of days, it's the type of duplicating us on Friday, as I said at the moment in my interpelation, that there are not yet the workers who are required to maintain the bubbles in the schools. Then there's another fat subject on the table, and it's the dining room, not just the strike. Now, at this moment, we're already in October. October and a little while later. And yet I know that the sects that support the Government will explain something to us about it, it is not yet supported in all the dining-room schools. That's what comes to us. And I think on this subject again, that the best policy of this government is to encourage unions, because we find ourselves once more united with a strike. And I think that shows that they're keeping things. The head physician says no, but all the unions and workers are sympathizing with encyvancy on the dining room theme and the lack of resources are being charged at the moment. There was still another complaint last week with EPI's accounts. All the EPIs aren't guaranteed to all the schools yet. As he also said in the interpellation – and this is an issue that I think we will be dealing with in other debates – there has been no reflection on the needs of students with special educational needs before the pandemic, on what has happened in the pandemic and on the means that are, or rather, on the non-means that are being put in place or the non-means that were already and are increasing. I believe that you have had the opportunity to speak with a number of Berritzeguns – in this case I am addressing Mr. Counsellor, who is here – and they will have commented on this. Later on, even with the operators. It's true that a positive thing is to be told, I think, that there's been an affair, and that you've agreed to join more unions. Well, as a starting point, I think it's okay. But you must understand, I think, or the government must understand, rather because we're not in an interpelation because we're not in a league, the head physician, and the government have formed a new group in the Board of Education, but it's been a long time since, not only from this pandemy. The thermometer of the patience of workers must also be measured by the non-agreements that have taken place in recent years. For example, you were talking, I'm sorry, the Government was talking about the meeting of the Civil Service Bureau to continue talking about this issue, but it's been a long time since the issue was unsolved. The thermometer for workers is therefore also located there. And another thing, in education, at the beginning of the course, we've talked a lot about resources, and we've already talked about the need for a diagnosis. Even in the correction of EH Collector made, this diagnosis has been included, I think it's very important. We've talked a lot about our parlamentary team, the unions, the various agents, the lack of resources or proposals, but we think it's very important to make a temporary diagnosis, a quick diagnosis. Why do I say that? Because we are sure that all the situations that have been experienced in the time of confinement, during a summer also atypical and also in this beginning of atypical course, have affected in one way or another the student, the teacher and also the families themselves. That is why we proposed – and it is also within the transaction we have reached with EH Bildu – that a diagnosis of the situation of the moment be made. It is true that, possibly, it will not be the diagnosis that will give us the full picture of the situation of the educational field in our territory. But we do think it's very important. Because we're talking a lot, I insist, about media. We're focusing a lot on the media, which are very important. But we need to talk about other issues. And in recent weeks there have been very interesting reflections – I think of educational experts we have in Euskadi – about these issues: about the need to reflect on pedagogy and about the importance of this course trying to alleviate and solve some of the serious problems that we know we have. But we do not know what dimension these problems of confinement and this situation are having that affects us all in one way or another. Because when we were looking a little bit at the situation after the confinement, in the early summer, there were data – which I dare not quantify at this time – that a high percentage of the students in Euskadi had stayed out of the educational radar at that time, that we had not been able to reach the people who were in their homes and that for different situations they had not been reached. Therefore, I think it is especially necessary. Then perhaps I will have more time to enter into the part of the negotiation that we have had in order not to reach any agreement between the groups of the House, except the transaction that we have reached with EH Bildu. But I think this is one of the important points and, well, we were told that since there is already a GNP, it is already going to be discussed. But if the debate and the agreement are to be the same, I do not wish anything good for that point either. And then, to explain the points of motion a little, I think the various points are rather concrete, accurate, and rarishly enough. We say: "Que haya diálogo y accerdo con los agentes." We had a debate – I think it was two plenary sessions ago – on the subject of ratio and on the subject of the media. We have not put the point of arrival, where we want or where we would like to reach us with the issue of ratio and with the issue of the media; but what we are asking is that there should be a dialogue and there should be agreements. The dialogue seems to have begun in some way, but it has not yet been completed. And, I say again, we are talking about the beginning of the course, and fortunately the epidemiological situation in the classrooms is not serious, it is not bad; it is worrying but it is not bad in that sense. But we are already in mid-October and we continue to talk about this and we continue, for example, with the second point of the motion which says: "Jantoki-zerbitzua eskatzen duten ikasleen ehuneko ehuni bermatzea", éta ez dut ulertzen zergatik Gobernuak edo Gobernua sustententzen duten alderdiek ezin duten hori sinatu. Ez went sinatzen jantokia bermatuko zaiela ikasle guztia. Nik mahai hen wearen duet. Esango didazue: "Well, that's the problem of educational centers, which are the ones who have to give the service." Yeah, but who puts the staff and who puts the media? Berriro diot, mozioan proposed a diagnosis horren beharra dago. And at the fifth point, with this foundation of COVID-19, I think we have only suggested, in our medium, some very flexible criteria; but we have again, with the agreement of the sector. The public network must be on the first line in the administration of that stock of COVID-19, we propose that, but we must also agree with the other sectors how COVID is managed. You will probably tell me that this is defined in the royal decree, that it is determined in the reign of kings, that the several communities will be governed by it. I therefore believe that this is a new missed opportunity for an agreement that was possible in the field of education. I think it's possible. Again, we are not talking about the educational model, the education law, in which we will surely enter into not much and in which it is certainly not surprising that we will disagree, even though our proposals, and I hope that the parties that support the Government will also have the will to agree. We are again talking about urgent measures to save this course. And in conclusion, I have already said that in the last few weeks the President of the Union has been in some media, and I don't blame him, of course, for his descriptions and interviews, and I know again whether he is the government syndrome or not. When unions and families are mobilized, they don't usually do it because they like it, they do it because they're in trouble. When a strike is made, and especially in the dining room sector, in a sector where it's really pretorical, they don't like it when they do a encycussion or strike, because it doesn't give them pleasure. It's a terrible personal sacrifice. Orduan, Eskolan "that do not need banners, but smiles"... Obviously. I say it again, I have seen no more smiles than in the mobilizations of the public school, the families and the public unions. Therefore, smiles do; but for people to smile they need to have the material conditions resolved. And I'm almost done with an anecdote again. Mr. Bildarratz in that interview said "we need more smiles." I'll tell you about the demonstrations again. I come from communist youth and the old communists, then young, what they said is "for a joyful and combative youth too", which I think is not incompatible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u25	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Arrese, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u26	Good morning, everyone. No, the dining room service is not guaranteed for 100 percent. And today is October 15. October 15th, and the Board of Education is as if a pandemy had not hit our entire education system. When we started this strange and strange new course on the 7th of September, we could have said something similar or similar in the chaotic situation we started. And yes, it's true we're in a much better situation than we thought we had, but that doesn't mean the situation is good in it. It is true, for this discussion, I might have brought arguments like the discourse I made for two weeks ago, October 1st; for the necessity of schools and students still resemble them. We are here again to ask for the measures necessary for the beginning of learning. And it's curious because it's still 15th of October and because we haven't really seen the exact size of schools. It's funny, but it's necessary, and that's why we talk about education today. It has been two weeks since the 1st of October that groups in this legislature support the government since it was agreed to "let the Board of Education" and "let it continue." Two weeks have passed, but what are the changes between the education system all this time? The improvements he's had and the new means he's been in? I don't know them yet, but I dare say they're not here yet. Those thousand new teachers in August, those thousand new people who were to be, are now the number of references for the Chief of the Union. In fact, it's no longer a thousand, it's 670. Or because we don't know very well what all the contractations are, half the labouring, third-thirds, or what they are. And, Mr. Chief physician, if all public schools, as you have already mentioned, see their plan of growing up, we hope they'll be haldy, how is it possible that they don't yet come near this number of thousands of people? When is this template due to the unit of education increasing? The sauce of Ziph is still there, and I still have no light, I say. What in August was going to be a thousand more professionals, those thousand people who were going to hire, are now a reference number for the counselor according to his interview this Saturday in numerous media. There it is, there a thousand is a reference number. When it comes to hiring people is a reference; but when we want to talk about ratios, then no, then we have to get the figures out of the debate. After the strike in October 2nd, the five sector unions called marchers in Bilbon, Gastename, and Donostian, for safety and consent. And those demands are still on the table today. On the 7th of October, the chairman of the Union had a meeting with the five unions mentioned. After a month the sactorial table was assembled, and as the chief physician of the department had so often opened the ball-bloos, there was an agreement at the meeting. But the statements of the unions aren't likely, and the most alarming thing is that we heard those we didn't hear any more. The unions came out of this meeting and announced: "The dynamic used by the band of Cristina Uriart has been realized by Bilar, a purely informative meeting instead of negotiation and agreement. The planning has been entirely partial, the criteria determined by one side and the closed. The integral planning which this stage of Panedemia requires, the necessary criteria and the necessary means, was needed to open a general field of negotiation and interaction. That's the way you're supposed to do the previous Board of Education." I don't know if it's the best way for this Board of Education that really wants to change its appearance. At least, when we ask others to extract discretion and education from political games, I do not know whether these aggressive expressions are proper for me. Because it's the only one that's done, I repeat, informive, closed, partial planning with one side criteria and no distraction. And besides, Mr. Bilaritz, the union has represented itself as an enemy and opposed it to this government and the members of this government. But what is plain is, that without pressure, without banners, this government and this Board of Education do not move. If there hadn't been any pressure on the education unit during the summer, we wouldn't have noticed, at least, any change in the expression. If the management team hadn't charged them with neglect and security of the administration, we wouldn't have seen the chief physician in meetings with the directors. And in those meetings, if some of the boarders had not raised their voices, we should not have seen the chief physician visit his schools with his group. If there hadn't even been a strike and a mobitiation, I don't know, it would have been a sectorial table. And yes, if we hadn't held up banners in our country for years, I don't know where our education system would be at this moment. If there had been no pressure from the educational community in the summer, we would not even have heard an increase in the workforce. If the addresses of the centres had not publicly denounced the abandonment by the Administration and the lack of security, we would not have seen the adviser meeting with the addresses. And if at those meetings some executives had not raised their voices to complain about their situation, we would not have seen the adviser visiting certain on-site centres. The conversation, agreement, agreement, or at least the beginning of this legislation, has been of my constant hearing. And these interviews, agreements, and agreements, I'd add the leadership. But it seems to me that some of us understand conversation in a different manner; for the conversation is not only to give headlines to media, or to call them one-sided meetings, but a conversation of the same kind. The agreements are necessary, of course, but the agreement is not to make the other move to its own position. The agreement is, as I said two weeks ago, the natural step of the conversation. If, of course, he's honest. The agreements, in this respect, must produce nothing positive. It's important what we agree on deals, but we haven't seen anything of it yet on the side of the Board of Education. And the agreements are also necessary if we wish to go on as a people in education. And if we really want to place ourselves after our high-school education, we need people-like agreements. Or does this Board of Education really think, and that the groups that support this Board of Education, will you alone give our education a place to get out of this pandemy? For the time being, we didn't even see the agreement between many. And the last I mentioned, the leadership, the leadership share. And that is not what a chief physician says to obey others, that is not to content us with the crumbs they give us. The share of leadership is built with the interviews, agreements, and agreements I have mentioned between the various parties, sharing different opinions and different projects. After all, the mutual initiative of many and the combined direction between us. And considering all this, we've signed the media together with the Podemos IU. The Martínin's partner brought a proposition here, another proposition from us and the groups that support the government. And we have shown nobility, just as we have been given from other groups, to agree with one another. So I want to thank him for agreeing to one half-way. And I would like to point out that the action is, as he said, real and useful. We have different models of education, but every political force in this Chamber will know when it opens those models. And we shall have occasion to consider it, even in this law, and outside this legislature. But this evening, I repeat, the 15th of October, we find the exact measures necessary. Because here and now the measures of emergency are still indispensable. We haven't made a deal today, we think there's not a specific measure to get out of here, and it's a loss for us. In conclusion, you yourself said that at your first interview in this legislature, the directors, the authorities, had asked for something, a confession. And you said, 'A tale, but not verbal, but a confession made of actions and words'. October 12th, words, even smiles, but we haven't seen the actions yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u27	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u28	Good. Good morning. Well, that's the third time in three weeks we've heard of education. We heard it two weeks ago with the presentation of a PNL by Euskal Herria Bildu, we heard it again the following week with an inquiry by Podemos and today with a motion. Man, I want to recognize that insistence and constancy are positive elements; contumacy, not so much. I don't know if it's really worth talking about exactly the same topics for three weeks in a row because it's like turning around a fairy, isn't it? But, well, that is what we are for in this Parliament. And beyond that I understand that each political group has to have its small share of political representation – and I think that motivates more than anything else the presentation of this motion today – because it is good that we talk about education issues. Because it seems to us – as I said two weeks ago and I repeat now – that education, together with health, are the basic priorities of this government and because we consider it an essential service that must be adapted to the serious situation that the pandemic has left behind. As Mr Martínez acknowledged, the data now tells us that the situation is being dealt with quite satisfactorily for what could be expected before the start of the course. The re-entry of more than 370,000 pupils from the close to 900 educational institutions has been carried out in a step-by-step manner in order to achieve maximum guarantees against the virus. It has occurred with normality, at least with the normality that allows us this pandemic. And it has been done according to the general criteria already proposed by the Ministry of Education in June, which again proposed in August and which basically follow, beyond competitive discussions, all the autonomous communities of Spain. And it was not precisely – neither our case nor that of any other territory – a simple situation to address. We are talking about 82,000 children and preschoolers, 130,000 primary students, 90,000 secondary students, another 41,000 in vocational training and 30,000 in baccalaureate. I mean, a mass of important people. But it is true that there have been very few contagions in school. There have been more positive ones, but they have been in the light of what we know about contagions in the family. And we have had to close classrooms in some cases, it is true; what was to be expected, on the other hand, because the zero risk does not exist and will not cease to exist, at least until we have controlled, with a vaccine, the virus. In total, the closed classrooms have been relatively few and the school children are also isolated, mostly because they are positive contacts from COVID, as I said before, from the family sphere. There's even an important fact. The number of infected pupils in the 3 to 16-year-old age groups has decreased since the start of the school year; this is to say that much of the positives – which were not many in those age groups – came from the family sphere and probably the hours spent in the centre have helped to have greater control of the pandemic. Nevertheless, measures are being taken to ensure quality education in difficult circumstances and to minimize the risk of contagion. The Government has maintained - and has not denied this possibility - the additional recruitment of 1,000 teachers, to which Mr Arretxe referred, to strengthen the staff in centres with more pupils per classroom, and everything in this process is a dynamic process. Therefore, the hirings will take place as they are needed, even though – we all recognize this – we are the autonomous community with the lowest ratio of students per classroom. In the material section, the Education Department has already acquired nearly 25,000 portable equipment to make it available to educational institutions. Have we not completed 100% of what is needed? Probably. The situation, as I said before, is changing as the needs arise and those equipments that are needed will be implemented. In any case, I do want to use – I did it last time and it seems important to me – to send an express thank you to the whole educational community, both to the teaching staff and to the non-teaching staff, because without their effort and dedication this effort would be empty, considering – I think we have that clear – that we have to continue living with the virus we do not know yet how long. Confinement in his day was an exceptional measure. In the process of descaling – hopefully we don't have to make any backsliding – transports, face-to-face work, bars, swimming pools, leisure have been recovered... and the schools have been the last to be opened. And neither here, as in all other activities, is there zero risk. There will continue to be risks, there will continue to be cases and we will have to confront them and stop them in the best possible way, that is, as long as we continue to ensure that schools function, because it seems to us that face-to-face education is absolutely essential. It is much more than acquiring knowledge on a computer or telematically, because values, social skills and skills are hardly learned through a computer. It is true that the presence may sometimes not be possible in some specific case and we will have to look – and I think the Department has it in mind – for viable alternatives. And in this regard, the government agreement reflects the commitment to develop a digital school plan that will pay special attention and specific support, especially to the most vulnerable children. We have always defended it this way and we have done so also in the negotiation of the government agreement. The programme included the development of a plan for technological investments in educational centres for technological modernization, the digitization of classrooms and new technologies in education, with a view to equipping especially the under-resourced student. And in the long term – as I said before and reminded Mr Martínez – the negotiation procedure must be put in place for the adoption of a Basque education law, which will be long and difficult because the challenges of the future must be met. We believe that this law must make clear the essential role of the Basque public school and its secular character, and equal opportunities for learning in all teachings. And all this will be done in dialogue with everyone, with political parties and with the educational community, something that has already begun to be done by the Education Advisor. That is the will with which we want to look to the future. Even one of the points of our agreement talks about betting on a permanent dialogue with the educational community, something that has begun to be the counselor since the beginning of his mandate. You speak, as a star measure, of the elaboration of a diagnosis. But a diagnosis in itself is a static situation, because it takes a photograph of a particular moment. And the education situation in Euskadi, as in the rest of the world, in a pandemic situation, is not a fixed picture. It is a dynamic and very mobile situation. And a diagnosis serves exactly the moment it is made, while a permanent dialogue with the educational community gives us the keys necessary to adapt in a continuous evaluation the needs of the educational world and the resources that the administration must provide. It seems to me that it is an interesting proposal that is made in the amendment that we have tabled together with the Basque Nationalist Party. And, thanking Mr Martínez for the constructive tone he has used in the speech, I would like to say that, of course, we will support the amendment that we have tabled together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u29	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arriguega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. A couple of weeks ago, if it isn't the same subject, we discussed it on the same subject. As I said then, he arrived September and left. Even October will soon leave us. Mr Martínez already knows what will be answered by the groups we support the Government. But that's already seen Matrix already seen This state does not allow us to advance the exact measures you have mentioned, Mr. Arrese. In order to present a suitable beginning to Kurto, it was necessary to take steps in the education system; two weeks ago, as I have said, we discussed them. And we can say that today the educational land is living the most normal normal normal thing that could live on. And I don't say so. I had a meeting with my kids last week, and that's what he told me. Kurto's beginning has published new challenges and it's not going to be easy and it's not going to be because we're here and it's going to be a complete condition of our daily condition. But it was necessary, however, that in the Basque schools the right of education should be once more exercised in its presence, and that it should be preserved in all security measures. And it's being like that. It is necessary also that the community of education should be united to the new state of the above measures. And that's what the department is doing, I repeat, constantly adapting the initial systems to the evolutional conditions, adapting, adapting, adapting, co-operation with the education unit, co-ordinated with the health department. Regulations, the means of opposition groups, of providing schools with more material resources and resources, to secure the safety and health of professionals and students. But, as has been said, what you suggest is a highly rated way of doing so must be done, as if the absolute truth was nothing but wood. Yes, that's right, Mr Martínnez. In round numbers, the opposition groups keep dancing and speech around these numbers. And in August, excited by ignorance, it was normal, in September, by nervous agitation, even by the unknown, we felt that fear, that ignorance, that nervousness, that we are really in this state of ours... The Department of Education has been maintaining a permanent dialogue with the educational community. And I can assure you, Mr Arrese, this does not come under the pressure of certain agents. It is essential to work together to ensure that the centres are safe spaces. They are. And the Department of Education will continue to work with the educational community to keep it that way, with or without a banner. He's gonna keep doing it, always. This government and this department have always worked like this. Two weeks ago, as I have said, we discussed the proposition as well as the necessary means of gathering the Basque People at the beginning of the session. The business of the department was what ends were and the means of development were. Eubertarians and Socialists, we were clear on the defense of the department. That's why we were surprised at the 2nd of October and the result of this motive that brings us to the same discussion. With two weeks' difference, no obvious change in the situation. Is it possible that in educational centers the management of the pandemy situation is more favorable? What is the purpose of opposition in such actions or actions? It doesn't look like an constructive attitude. Honestly, I say. During the interpelation of October 2, the chairman of the Union explained to us the summary of the events of the last months. I'm not gonna repeat it again. As he said, the schools have done an enormous job in taking students, in order to ensure their safety and to face a course of education which will have great difficulty. Again, our team would like to thank all the professional schools for the complications they've had for certain space and the great effort they've made, even the unions and the councils. Although the Board of Education gives general examples, each school applies them differently and accurately. Schools are so different. The chairman of the Union said the 2nd of October. They differ from physical characters, from position, from number of students, from environment, from morals. Hence it is necessary that each school should do its own regulations and recommendations, by this autonomy the schools should act according to their real wants. We believe in the autonomy of students. Round numbers, rated list values are not valid, so they're not worth a good answer to each. And that's what the department is talking about, picking up what it takes, examining, asking for answers. Dialogue is ongoing with the educational community. Concerns and needs are shared, and analyzed in search of the best solution for each centre. The updated epidemiological bulletin on the situation of educational institutions is also published daily. The latest updated data on the incidence of COVID-19 in schools in Euskadi tells us that there are no schools with in-person educational activity suspended, and that there are a total of 130 classrooms closed in 91 schools. These data are from yesterday. Two weeks ago, more classrooms were closed in more centers. In course 20-21, the Basque educational system has a total of 17,554 classrooms. The number of closed classrooms accounted for 0.74% of that total classroom and two weeks ago it was 1.04. The efforts being made by society as a whole and, more specifically, by the educational sector are contributing to the ongoing development of the Euskadi pandemic. On seeing the progress of the past weeks and putting all the data on the table in an objective way, we can say that at the present day in society the schools are safe places. And yet we must continue in a constant conditioning and adaptation, because we are learning to live with the virus. We all did. We'll need all this help and collaboration to continue developing. I repeat, our educational system requires a large consent to face this situation. But to bring the same argument here between two weeks without any unexpected factor or by such a factor, well, to maintain the same planning, I repeat, at least for us, it is not a constructive position. We don't know what they're looking for with that crowd of opposition. We think that we ought to continue the work which the Board of Education has set out in a constant conversation, and in the case of Omnipotent with all the agents, by examining and giving the answers to the state of all the schools. And we believe that the eubertarians are all reflected by the team and by the Socialist Group. And that's why, once more, today we will protect our correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u32	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I will start at the end, explaining to the formation that the motion for a debate has been put forward why my vote is going to be against. It must be recognized that much of what they propose is sensible, that it even corresponds to what should be done and, indeed, since Education has not been done. But that last point, that effort of Podemos to divide society into good and bad... Good, those who think like them and serve for their confessable and unconfessable purposes; bad, all others. What do you mean, subsidies for public education and only for public education? What problem do you have with private and concerted education? Don't they educate Basques and Spaniards like public schools and universities? Are they not equally suffering the rigors of this pandemic? I don't know, maybe you, in your internal affairs, feel that you deserve it, at least until your children go to a concerted school and then everything will change. "Where I say, I say Diego," that truth and consistency have never been your traveling companions. In its particular and sectarian recipe, public education embodies all the goods of this land, the best of the best, the public as the quintessence of well-being, justice and progress, as in Cuba. Instead, concerted education and private education is hell on earth. Their desire for control has no limits, and they don't care that many thousands of young people are educated in concerted and private schools, by the way, in the same values as in public schools. They don't care if they risk thousands of jobs, because this crisis has also hurt them, even more so because people like you deny them the support they also need. All to keep some of those vows progress that slip like sand between their fingers. Another doubt, you call for special educational support in matters such as digitization and euskera. Doesn't it seem necessary to them also in others such as mathematics, language, English, at least so important for the proper education of children and not so children? Otherwise, okay. The Basque Education Council has had a court-martial performance, leaving families, pupils, teachers, cleaning staff, dining rooms, management teams of public, concerted and private schools, to all. An irresponsible inaction except to defend your self-government, that medicine that currently complicates everything, corrupts everything. You speak of a necessary co-governance with this Government. That is absolutely unthinkable, because the start of the school year was not a wave of contagion, not due to the Education Council, but to the exercise of the responsibility of pupils, parents, teachers and directors, and not only – I repeat – of the public school, but also the private school. In short, they will be able to count on us when they truly bet on the collaboration between all the social partners, and I say all, in capital letters, all those in the educational sphere. We firmly believe in the freedom of choice of parents and respect for any option of the existing ones, and that it has also been proven that they certainly work better than their reference council. They tried here to impose their particular secularism, they also tried to impose their model of state contrary to the Constitution, and now they intend to end our educational model to impose theirs, only public, as in China or North Korea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u33	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The Basque Popular Groups-Ciudadans, Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad we're back here talking about education. I'm glad we're talking about education so much, though I have a feeling we're not moving forward. On October 15 we continue to debate the beginning of the course. This does not make any sense, it is to stretch out in a forced way an insubstantial, superficial and senseless interpellation, with a motion all fruits No wonder when the point has begun most of this plenary session has been absent. We're wasting our time. We are squandering resources and turning this House away from the many real concerns of the citizens, which is why we will not support this initiative. But there is one point in the motion that I find especially striking and aggressive. And I find striking the point and also the lack of reference that some groups have made to it. And it is the proposal to allocate 100% of the extraordinary resources of the COVID-19 fund to public education. The transaction has attempted to clumsily correct this issue by "priorising the public network". I mean, we don't give them everything, we give them most. Has COVID actually only affected public education? Has the concertee been mysteriously protected by some kind of shield we still don't know? And if it has affected everyone alike, why should one help only one family and another not? This doesn't have a pass. Of the 372,000 pupils who have enrolled in this course in the various stages of non-university education in Euskadi, 50.9% have enrolled in the public network and 49.1% in the concerted network, almost half. Do you intend to leave more than 182,000 students without the protection of the COVID-19 fund? And why? Why do you have this special pollution with the school arranged? What kind of trauma do they have with her to attack her whenever there's a chance? Doesn't it bother you because it means freedom of choice and you don't like parents being able to choose? If parents cannot choose, then they will have to endure what is and quality cannot be assessed or compared. Is this what we are proposing, that there are no alternatives to choose? And does that improve or worsen the overall quality of our teaching? Behind this kind of proposal there is a goal that is never said, that is to eliminate the concerted school, and that the entire education network is public. That's it, isn't it? So all schools can be run by the dominant ideology, does that sound to them? That is what happens in totalitarian countries, some of which are their model and which they intend to take us to, authoritarian, obsolete and failed models that they intend to import here. Public education, ladies and gentlemen, is neither fairer nor cheaper nor of better quality than concerted education. In both there is everything, but in the variety there is freedom. We have said this many times and will repeat it as much as it takes: concerted education is also public and worth defending, because it is worth defending freedom. Look, Mr. Martinez, we don't believe in absurd battles between public school and concerted school. We believe in quality education and the right of parents to choose education for their children. Divide our teaching network into two sides and confront them I don't think it helps any children or improves the quality of teaching. This is not what citizens expect from their public representatives. We want – we have said it many times – a free Euskadi where parents have the ability to choose the language model or pedagogical model in which their children will be educated. We want a diverse, plural and quality school, and that necessarily goes through a network of mixed, dynamic, living, diverse and free schools. That is why every time we attack the parents' ability to choose their children's education, they will find us in front of them, because, I repeat, we want parents to be free to choose. And it must be very clear, every time we attack concerted education we are attacking that freedom and, therefore, we are imposing a model. And the time of the impositions and the grey, uniform, directed and monochrome models of society has passed. We want to remain free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u35	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing on the answers, Mr MartínnezIón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u36	Well, thank you. I was going to tell you, Mr Pastor, that I was going to focus on you, but after the last speeches, I don't think it's going to be the time. I am not at the time of "lost hope, lost illusion, the problems continue to be unresolved", but as, at least to us and to the unions and to other echelons Mrs Arrizabalaga, I would like – it is true that it is then a bit of a trap because I have no reply – to illustrate to me, to see what you suspect of me at the time doing this kind of initiatives, because we already know each other four years ago and, otherwise not, but initiatives in the field of education, a few, both in plenary and in committee. Deals, some even. Disagreements, most of them. But, well, as, I don't know, I got up with a very purposeful will... I think I've been quite right at the first-round exhibition and, well, I don't know what kind of suspicion there is here, that we have some sort of contubernium to defend means for the school, in this case... And I would indeed invite you to continue – there is no time but... – to the proposal. This is the document that I sent yesterday to the rest of the amending groups – and I also handed it to Mr Gil a few minutes ago – where the amendments of the PNV and the Socialist Party are in red, in green that of Bildu's diagnosis, others of Bildu are stuck because they were already, and the modification of point number five in which, in fact, we propose for the COVID-19 fund, in addition, very open criteria – which the department could specify – but which follow objective criteria prioritizing the public network, which is what the law says. The law in force in 1992. Read the law, Mr. Gil, the Public School Act, which is where that spirit is reflected that reflects point five of the transaction we signed with Bildu. And, very briefly, to tell the representative of the Joint Group that, of course, we are bringing the proposals that we believe to be appropriate to Parliament, and that we are not trying to impose on anyone. But more serious than that intervention – which has not surprised me either – was that of Mr Gil. Mr Gil, representative of the People's Party-Citizens on this point, has said – or at least what I understand – that we want to impose public school. Well, we have a model that defends public school and prioritizes public school. But after that you said that the public school has ideology, that if there was only public school in this country, that public school would have ideology. I think it is particularly serious and I encourage you to explain to us or rectify what you said in your speech, because the public school neither in Euskadi nor in Spain nor in any democratic country has more ideology than the democratic values in force at the moment. Therefore, I had no intention of polemizing or embarrassing this intervention, you have already done so and some other intervention – I do not tell you either, in this part, by the groups supporting the Government – but it seems particularly serious to me and I hope you will explain to us in your intervention if you consider that at present, as you have said, the public school in Euskadi has a specific ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u37	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mr. Arrese, your word is yours. That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u38	Thank you. Thanks for taking the seat. Well, to make it clear, we don't blame anyone, even those groups we signed the middle term, we don't have to publish that the fault of infection is that of the Board of Education at any moment. We haven't even mentioned anything about the infection, now or two weeks ago. In fact, we've taken our specific proposals from our middle course, we've removed the numbers from our middle course. Since the agreement had not been made two weeks ago, it was intended to be more flexible. And yet there is no compact, because it seems to us, that groups supporting the government have not really the will to make an agreement. And it seems to me, too, that in front of the wants of the schools, the Board of Education is blind, mute, and deaf. And to discuss the same thing at present, I think, is positive, because the state continues to do so, and no change has happened. And it's true that protocols come every day or week, but in this case, unfortunately, a la baja. I won't read, I won't make a political speech in this replication. I won't reveal the political position that my party, my alibi, might have. What I'll do is read only the latest part of a report that the director of the School again gave to the chairman of the Union. And you will accuse us of making politics or bringing our political discourses to the centre, but I repeat, I shall not make a political speech. All I'll do is read the last paragraph of the text that has been published by the local board and has made public. And that's what it says. "The proclamations which we proclaim are not created by a virus. This Pandemy has left the proclamations more striking than ever. We have always thought it necessary to descend the rays, either in pedagogical or academic degrees, in order to give more attention to the needs of the students. What the Pandemia has left clean is that, considering health, it's not possible to get 25 teenagers into square 40 meters. We know that, suddenly, it can be difficult to guarantee the 15 students proposed by the OMS because it's a substructure or a teacher. But we are convinced that we must proceed with greater superiority than ever; we must seek the consent of this people to strengthen and rebuild one of the most important columns required, and look at the near future with ambition." And he keeps saying, "The Resort of Directorship." "We have a public and Basque school, founded on feministic worth, and who will answer the needs of the students with equity, which will satisfy the wants of the students in general, over the multiplicity of families, over the phenomena of solace. This is what we believe firmly. The Board of Education requires nothing but the beginning of the same course, the public inveighing, foresight, proposal, and action, with political will. "Let us begin," says this party of directors, "for ten years they are lost, but at least we know the way. We're only going to feed the schools that way smiling. Only then will the correlation between smiles and banners change." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u39	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Basque Socialist, Mr. Pastor, he mustn't speak. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u40	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Reality is the same, but its aspects differ. We defend different examples. There's been some trouble at school, and the chief physician has accepted it publicly. But the measures have been taken. And as far as the situation is concerned, we all have to admit that the year has begun well. That's a reality. Schools are safe places and that's what's done and done with all the work that's done. And it has been achieved among all of us. It has been achieved by the management of the centres, by the teacher, the student, the AMPA, but also thanks to the administration, thanks to the work of the municipalities and thanks to the work, above all, of the Basque Government and the Department of Education. And that's how the data backs it up. There are several compounds of the educational system that are being reinforced from the section. On the planet, more than 500 teachers are televising the department. Each school will decide what kind of feature and job are the supplementary teachers to whom they belong. The courses will decide. There are already 300 new classes of teachers who don't have a bauble, but for several reasons connected to COVID. And those people don't cook. They're still doing their professional duty from their homes. We're talking about 1,000. Those 1,000 hires are going to be bigger, bigger. But that doesn't mean that it has to be 10,000 or that it has to be 3,000 or that it has to be 5,000. You will see, you are seeing based on necessity, not based on a headline. Were 1,000 expected? We're almost at 1,000. Are you going to need 3,000? Let's see, let's analyze it, let's respond with that resource. But not a hit, let's not dance with the numbers. Let's see what it takes and then act. And that is what this group stands for and what the Basque Government stands for. As for replacements, the department is making a special effort, even in order to respond immediately to all the demands of presidency in the schools. In September, in total, 3,716 replacements have been made, last year more than 40 replacements at the same time, with increase in 38.8%. As for the dressing-rooms, the department is hiring more than 500 new dining-room monitors to strengthen 100 washing employees and 30 other kitchen daily services. These are the last facts. We'll see what more is necessary, and it'll be settled in the case. That's what the department is doing with all the schools. We know how important this dining room service is only for families as the essential element of the Central Education System. So let's reset it, yeah. We have no problem protecting that. They're shapes. How do we guarantee it? What's the way to do that? Our teams and departments, in this case, EukoMook, according to what they're planning. And in relation to the compromise amendment, Mr Martinez was telling us about a suspicion... The suspicion, you know, if we've told him more than once – not just me, the rest of my groupmates too – is that he's looking for confrontation. To duplicate the issues to be discussed here is not to seek confrontation? Sell the "the worse, the better"? But it's just, on top of that, in this case, it doesn't make any sense because it's fake. Today's situation in educational institutions is not in this thesis. So, that doesn't help, it doesn't contribute. It doesn't help to build. And neither does the transactional that you, Elkarrekin Podemos and Euskal Herria Bildu, arrived at today. Elkarrekin Podemos, Mr. Martinez, told us that the diagnosis they did share. In his initiative, nothing appears in relation to the diagnosis. And you fuck him because Bildu brings him in with his amendment. With an amendment which, in turn, has already submitted a non-legislative proposal – whose deadline for tabling an amendment expired today – calling for such a diagnosis. Then it doesn't make sense. If we're going to discuss it next week or next. It totally distorts, totally distorts that image of wanting to contribute and wanting to build. Today we're going to have to vote against it. What are we going to discuss when we really debate that initiative that Bildu has presented? It doesn't make any sense. So, do you suspect? All of them. Because you're seeing what the reality is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u42	I don't have time. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u43	Thank you. Miss team. Mrs Martínnez mustn't speak. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I am grateful for the opportunity to be able to clarify four points. The first, Mr. Martinez, I beg you not to manipulate my words. I didn't say public school has ideology. You can check it out in the session log quite clearly. What I have said, exactly, and I have it written here, is that if we make the concerted school disappear, then we run the risk that schools may be led by the dominant ideology, as happens in some countries you know. And I'm sure you're able to find the difference between the two. But I want to clarify a few things, because this debate is very interesting and perhaps one day we should delve into it, but perhaps it is not the time, nor is it the focus of the initiative. Mr Arrese, I do not know if I have understood correctly, it seemed to me that our education system works by mobilizations, strikes and protests. Frankly, I believe that our educational system needs tranquility, excellence, consistency and participation, and no more anger and conflict. I don't think it's the way to manage the education system or a country. Mr Bildarratz, Basque education has not been well managed so far. And one doesn't take away the other. Now you have the opportunity to do it differently, but I'm not sure you're willing to rectify the previous trajectory. Time will speak. And the next Basque law of education will be the test of cotton. Mrs. Arrizabalaga, I'm glad we only have 130 classrooms closed. It still seems like a lot to me. But what is true is that having only 130 closed classrooms is not the Government's merit, it is the merit of the students, teachers and centres, to which I believe it is now time to take advantage to send them our congratulations and our most explicit support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u45	Thank you, Mr. Gil. The discussion is over and we'll vote together for the middle-point correction that Podemos-IUk and EH Collect has signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 74; in favour 26; on the contrary, 48; abstaining, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u46	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists and Eucabertians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 74; supporters, 41; opponents, 33; Abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u47	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Mation, introduced to the popular group of Carmelus Barrio Barroja, Ciudadnos, about the reduction of the railway transport through our territories. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u48	Egun on. Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In connection with this initiative, on day 2 we had the question to Mr Arriola concerning rail transport. And we present, as a result of that interpellation, a simple one, but we understand that necessary motion for the present moment that our historical territories live in relation to the rail transport of passengers, fundamentally, as you all know, from nearness, half distance. And what this group wants, at this time, is to be a belt of transmission of neighbours and neighbors, of local institutions, for example, those of the Alsasua-Vitoria-Miranda Corridor, in relation to this topic. It's clear where the skills are. We have not denied that at any time, and that is why we have made this clear. But it is also clear where it is possible to act and influence, that is, from institutional collaboration and from the approach, sometimes even co-governance, to the pandemic, because the railway reduction, which has affected so many neighbours and neighbours of the Basque Country, is also the result of the incidence of COVID-19. So, in that sense, there are many factors to which we must allude. This reduction in rail passenger transport is a step backwards, a step backwards in public transport and, on the other hand, a further step towards encouraging the use of private transport, in particular car transport. And it is something, of course, inconsistent with the public policies of this new society, with environmental sustainability, with what we have talked about so much in all these years and which we have to guarantee. Our motion is very simple. That's why you can't lower more than you are. That is to say, our motion called for the Basque Parliament – following the line, right? – to urge the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport of the Basque Government – which is where transport competition is, well, transport policies in this case, not so much competition, because it is from Renfe and it is from the ministry, but transport policies – to demand – in this collaboration, in this inter-institutional coordination – the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, immediately, the recovery of all the railway services that have been provided in the Basque Country until the declaration of the state of alarm by COVID-19 through the real decree that you all know. So nothing more than this – this demand, call or motion – but nothing less, right? We cannot, of course, lower this statement in relation to the needs that have been conveyed to us by many people, by many institutions and by many local representatives. In fact, I would like to remind you once again that on 2 October we had an inquiry with Mr Arriola, the Transport Commissioner, and in that connection something was found that not all of Renfe's railway services had been recovered, close by, half a distance; and that not all of them were going to be recovered at the moment. That was a finding, that is, they have not recovered and will not recover at the moment. Renfe, for now, didn't have it on his schedule. That is, that it was clear and clear, in relation to the needs of citizens and the sustainability of transport, that it is necessary to convince Renfe to recover – in this case also to require Renfe to recover – that transport and to restore it. That is necessary, because in that inquiry it was found that, for the time being, it was not going to be complete. And in this respect, I say again, the role of this parliamentarian and this group is to be a channel of concern for citizens and public representatives of the affected localities in the Basque Country, with whom we have spoken and who have conveyed this concern to us. Renfe's suspension of regional and mid-distance service frequencies is seriously affecting service users in several locations, such as Agurain-Salvatierra, Alegría-Dulantzi, Nanclares de la Oca and other locations that are also very important and closely related to Vitoria. Because they are localities like Alsasua or Miranda de Ebro, La Puebla de Arganzón, that is, intimately related to many effects with Vitoria. And these localities, all of them, the alavesas and those of our most immediate environment, need public transport – now they will have to do it by other means – to travel to vocational training, to university, to some schools of the oldest students in school stage, to many jobs from all those localities, to commercial activities, without any doubt. Many people – and above all older people – even to go to specialized health care or hospital health care, which is the day-to-day treatment in relation to factors of chronicity, dependence, etc., etc., that force such use of public transport. Renfe is shielded in the demand for travelers – so we have been told – and the other day the counselor also informed us of that because Renfe had told him and we have also read it. Well, that's it. That is why many people today see it necessary to take alternatives. The demand is there; it can be valued a little higher, a little smaller, but the demand is there. That is why we have already seen how alternatives are taken, because there is no rail transport. The alternatives are, essentially, to take the private car or organize itself in relation to the private transport; the strengthening – i.e. not the normality – of bus services – competence of other administrations; having to take that service and having to strengthen it even – as has already been said and as has been shown by mayors of surrounding localities – with the hiring of taxis by the municipalities for the transfer of certain persons, being able to use and having always used the service and the railway transport. It is clear that the analysis on this issue is not in the demand for transport. It's not in demand, no, it's not. Because rail transport is an essential, important public service; the analysis must be in the recovery of frequencies and, where appropriate, in the improvement. I mean, let's focus on the recovery, at least, and the demand for that recovery to whoever it is. Briefly, to conclude. In Salvatierra-Agurain they are tired of seeing how, historically – they understand – public transport in the Alavesa Plain has worsened. Being a very important nucleus in the Plains, people are demotivated in relation to this situation; that is, it cannot be, it cannot be. Moreover, speaking as we always speak of depopulation, of rural empowerment, this is contradictory to those public policies which must increase that empowerment, which must preserve it. So important are these cores of population, among the testimonies in relation to what happens with that tiredness, there are clear examples with the students. Students have a serious problem; before they had a train at eight minus four, which has not been repaired. And it is a very important issue for so many students who go to schools, universities or to the Professional Training of nuclei connected with Vitoria, for example, by rail transport. It is clear that the citizens of these affected areas – I say Álava again, fundamentally, but there are more – pay taxes just like the citizens who do not need rail transport because they live here in Vitoria and can take the tram or bus lines on which, of course, there are no cuts. Well, it is clear that those citizens living in rural areas pay the same taxes as others and are entitled to a transport to which they were entitled before the pandemic, as the pandemic has far more negative effects on this society, apart from public health or apart from individual health. And we must, of course, ensure the mobility of people in the territory, we must ensure that mobility. It was interesting the interview that Mr. Arriola gave the other day – if I remember correctly it was in the Basque Diario – and I was right, I absolutely share what he said: "the train, the rail transport, is the transport of the future". I was also saying it on the cover. He was the headline the journalist had chosen to highlight Mr. Arriola's interview. And it's true, it's the transport of the future, and here it's going backwards. Transport in the past was better than in the present, in relation to the needs of our historic territories. And besides, it is a time when we have to appreciate what has happened, that is, there has been a return to schools and universities quite normal despite the circumstances. Commercial activity, industrial activity, service activity, to a large extent, has also been quite normalized; however, it has not been normalized, it has receded and it has worsened in the rail transport of near and mid-distance. There are many questions – we are also referring to them the other day – regarding the urgent need to recover these frequencies with these incongruous timetables that affect students in the Alavesa rural area, self-employed people, businesses, workers and retirees. For some people it involves more travel costs, more private vehicles, more overnight stays. And it even affects some cases outside, when these frequencies have changed not only in the historical territory the frequencies of proximity, but also there have been significant cuts in other frequencies that affect our connections with other territories, with other autonomous communities and other cities. In other words, it becomes complicated, in some cases and for some people, to leave Álava as was done before in relation to frequencies, trains and transport; in this sense, it implies a deterioration and abandonment. That is why we are calling on the Basque Government – I have also had the opportunity to follow some appearances by Mr Álava's deputy general on these issues – and on the institutions, in this case the Basque Government and the deputies, so that they can also get involved in that demand to recover what we already had. That is the object, the purpose of our motion, and there we present it. I mean, it can't be lowered. That is why, when the amendments were tabled yesterday, I saw that some of them were going beyond it, even some of them were another debate – which we will probably have later, we will discuss and we will see – concerning the use of the corridors and the involvement of the Basque Government of Euskotren in some matters. We'll talk about that, it'll be another debate. And, of course, it could not be lowered in relation to what was proposed by the groups supporting the Government, because we were talking about a specific issue. Of course, "continuing to lend..." in the area of competences I can agree, but this was a requirement for those frequencies to be recovered, and "recovery" and "requirement" did not come anywhere in the amendment to the totality presented by the groups supporting the Government... I believe that the clearest is still our amendment, which – I say again – is very concrete, very simple, requires decisive action. It demands that we see it, that is, not only that it be done – that we can be told that it is being done or that... It requires that we see it and that the citizens of these territories affected by the reduction in transport, that they see it and that they know that this is the case and that – forming part of a good concert in relation to the parties that are in the government – this definitive commitment to immediate recovery of all frequencies and of all rail transport is drawn out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u49	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Together, Mr Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u50	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Carmelo Barrio has been, I believe, prolific in the explanations regarding his motion which we, despite having amended, are going to support. Well, what surprises us is... I do not know whether it is a political decision that has not taken account of the compromise we have made to them since Euskal Herria Bildu and our group, which I believe is not so different from yours either, and I believe that it improves it. Because, well, you've stayed on the part of recovering; we're going a little further. It is true and you were right, and we have – well, I don't know if it is the word, and I have no problem with it – corrected with part of our amendment. As there will be a concrete debate on that corridor in Altsasu-Miranda, we will do so at that time. But I think it was a pretty easy topic. I am surprised on the one hand, at the moment, by the position of the Basque Nationalist Party and also that of the Basque Socialist Party, because being in government does not mean that we cannot ask the Government of Spain for certain things that have quite logical, which are not martian. Because the cut that was made, the moment it was made, is logical that it was made. And, well, come on, first point of the deal. But I think that now, and even more so in this new normality or in the reality in which we have lived, public transport, if it was already of major importance, is now even more important; and more so if we are going to talk about climate change, sustainable development objectives and emission reduction, so much so that they are being introduced into state, autonomous laws and also into European directives. The railway – you have explained it and I will try not to exhaust all the time – is fundamental everywhere and in Araba more, especially because there are a number of locations to which it gives an essential service that cannot be supplied by other means; and it was a rather critical situation that there was with respect to railway services. And I think the basic point that should unite us to all groups is to get back, at least, what there was. In Araba that corridor of Altsasu-Miranda – which is now totally underutilized, we are going to discuss it within a short time – I think it is essential for the policy of territorial cohesion, and in the end – you, Mr Barrio, has also explained it – for the day-to-day of the Alavesa, to reach Gasteiz, which for good or for bad is the nucleus that concentrates most of the economic, social, cultural, etcetera, of the territory. We therefore believe that it is very urgent that this service be recovered. And I believe it is essential to lay the foundations for the very near future. And I believe that, right now, we should recover and improve the service that Renfe currently gives in Euskadi, and so we ask the Government of Spain; and I am aware that I am part of a parliamentary group that is part of that Government and that is also proposing it in the preparation of the general budgets of the State. I do not think it is any Martian – I say again – I think we could agree with all the groups in this House on that request: to recover, at least, what there was until the state of alarm was decreed. But it's not just a lauded subject. In the interpellation you have only referred to the subject under discussion, but, well, then we have included the three territories of our Autonomous Community. The situation in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa also needs an urgent improvement to rehabilitate – I say again – at least the situation we had before the state of alarm was decreed. In Bizkaia there is a shortage of drivers. It is a widespread situation in Renfe which, of course, is not responsible for the ten months of management of this government, but it is a situation that has inherited and has to put it – the Spanish government, I mean – solution. And in addition, we must renew the service fleet, especially in Bizkaia, and recover – as I say, as I say again – the services that have been cut. And, in this regard, I find it interesting that this first transport initiative should be brought in. There is going to be another, and surely we will also be presenting some more, and we will soon have Mr Arriola's appearance to talk about transport as well. I think it is important that, as long as we solve these problems in the immediate future, we also think that if this railway transfer is going to arrive in this legislature, that is also a good point for – at least in this part of the vicinity – to be able to reach an agreement, of those that we like to call "the country". An agreement for the mobility of nearby railways in the three historical territories in Euskadi. In this sense, Álava is undoubtedly the most abandoned area in the area of railways in terms of proximity. And, I think that, with a reasonable investment – surely socially very profitable, economically we already know that less, but socially very much – it will have a service worth calling itself close and that it will also improve people's lives as well as life in the rural cores of Araba. But it is also true that in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa we have to think, now that we are going to have the railway competition, what we are going to do with all that. I therefore believe that it is a good time, this beginning of the legislature, for the groups to put forward our proposals in this regard and, well, that we can reach agreements. I'm surprised, actually, that there's no agreement at this point. And the truth is that we cannot support the amendment by the groups supporting the Government because it does not speak of the proposer's initiative, so there is no point in voting in favour of it at this time. It is as basic as saying whether we agree that the frequencies that existed and that are necessary for, in this case, the citizens who need the train for their daily lives will be recovered. I think it is a very simple matter for this Parliament to speak unanimously in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u51	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Stand by the EH team, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u52	Hello, good morning, everyone. We can see from the Combat, we're on our side. We think we need to recover the restrictions that have been made since the alarm status has been set, and that's the main comment. I would like to make a couple of shades, and then explain our inconvenience; for it seems to us that the motion, though for it we are in favour of it, is a very conservative one. It seems to us that we should go a little further, and that it is time to ask more than to recover our schedules. They'd be small shades. The first is a temporal hue. The motion refers to the state of alarm, and, in truth, I think it ought to be a somewhat wider position; for, as a whole, it seems to me that we shall continue to diminish it, or at least seem so. For the last three days, for instance, there's been a few reductions across C3, between Urduha and Bilbo, on that line which also serves the Achaians. Renf has linked the restrictions today with only technical problems. We believe, therefore, that this is not an account of the state of alarm, but of the whole pandemy. And, of course, restrictives have been mentioned in the previous interventions of radians, especially during temporary services. The second hue would be geographical. It has also been mentioned that in the interpelation, the Aranan centred in the Aramus Barri, and then the motion which he introduced has been extended to the whole Euscal Autonomy of Erdi. And it seems to us right, as I have just explained, that C3 line, for instance, is very directly connected, and that it affects Bistia too; and that even the temporary service of Gipulia is not to be abandoned. And our objection is, as I said before, that the motion is very conservative. So we added three more points in correction. Finally, I thank you for your position with Martíne, and we've tied two of them together, but it's pretty much keeping our three primary ideas. And there were three notes: the second, which is about the undergrowth, and therefore that which we call Adifi; and the last, which is to be directed to the voyce of the Eucomis himself. Renfe must be told that it's not enough to recover the schedules. We believe that frequency must also be improved, because the rates are one of the public transport keys. And it seems to us that the frequency has been lost in time. If you stick to it, you'll have to take back your capers too. There are many appeaderos in our territory which are no longer used. I remember when we were young, climbing up from Gasteiz to Aegina, going down on the porch, and then we took the train back home. That's a long time ago, it's impossible. And there are other Apeaderoes who are no longer used. In the same line, Miranda-Almasau is already off-line, Estivalis is no longer used by the left-hand man, he's no longer used, he's already in Sakan, and he's not used by the mainland, or he's used to it very little. We believe, therefore, that the infrastructure are there, and ought to be re-used with the frequency. And we don't know why, systematically, we don't know why they're already implementing phacultative halts, which are so normal in the aquatic buses. Well, if I want to get out of Doon, I'll give the button, and if nobody gives it to him, don't you?" There is this in many trains, but it has not been systematically implemented, and we believe that it would be a very easy measure and should be put into action. So that's a bit of an operatic, or an operational measure, or something that goes with Renfe. What we need to ask is, in our opinion, to invest more in subjugations is about the middle and temporary trains of the noodle. There are still some cases of accessal stations; there are a number of low-level landings, with security problems. In fact, we've included some initiative, asking for information. We believe that we must really make more investments at the underlying trains of the middle and temporary distance. Here's what you've been talking about about, and I think we ought to invest in it too. And so that would be the second point. And finally, to say to you, "Jasquilly" in the end, even if it's not his jurisdiction, we have to take care of the temporary trains and that it's essential to re-establish our country. and looking at the land-ores and the regional movement, they are very important. For instance, it has been mentioned in what manner most Arabs live in the name of Gaste. Aba is a province with the highest macrocephal index in the Spanish state We live 76 at Gasteia 76; and Gasteiz is the only one who does not have a temporary service between the three capitals of Euskal Autonomy in the Erdi. We believe, perhaps, that it is not only for this, but that there is some correlation, there is some connexion. To do this we have another legal proposal in order to establish a temporary railway service in the Miranda-Asssu corridor. We think that RedMork would have to put more force on regular trains when he goes to negotiate Madrid, even though he's not in control, like he negotiates with other things. We think he could do a little more force in this matter, too. We are entering the Moments, both in the townships and in the central assemblies, in order to enable temporary trains. For example, the line Bilbo-Santander is supposed to be powered. We think we need to power the C3 line that's going down. And, as I have said, we believe that the project of Arbatran, which we have long cultivated among the Miranda-Almas, should also be established. But we'll talk about it another time. And my last mention will be for a high-speed train, because the temporary train can collapse on a high-speed train with so much money, so much public investment. It ought not to be connected with the one with the other, but, in truth, it can only be inferred from the result. And it's not just EH Collector, they don't just say hundreds of experts, AIReF (Autorida Independenti de la Responsabilid Fiscal) said that he had recently said that in one of his latest reports. He says that in the Spanish State the bar has been spent on a high-speed train, that it has been invested too much, and that without looking very well it amused him, and that it has been the foundation of the temporary trains. These three points, then, would be these three: In addition to retrieving the schedules, we improve the frequency, improve the investment understates, and then take care of the times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u53	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Basque Socialists, Mr. Aziza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u54	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, Mr. Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. In a short time, because in the 2nd of the month the chief physician replied very well to the population of the party. The answer to the motion you've brought here today was given at that moment, much more detail. There is no other turn, for the chief department had mentioned the periods in response, and the frequencies which have been restored to the result of what has been done. Arriola explained this. This government, especially Mr. Arriola himself, with his own team, has been in a state of smoke from the first minute to look into the state of adaptations and set up the necessary remudations. This Government has complied with the principle of inter-agency collaboration and co-governance in order to remarry and work from the first minute with the relevant institutions, in order to adapt the frequencies of the railway services to the new normality. And it has done so also on the basis of principles of intermodality, working together with other competent institutions in the different territories, trying and also applying solutions through other means of transport for users who have seen altered frequencies usually used, to the extent that this has been possible. In this case, the principles of effectiveness, efficiency, investment based on use, demand should also be present. The councillor told Mr. Barrio in his answer to his question. The first contact was made with the Foral Diputación de Álava – as an institution aggregating the interests of the historical territory and with competence in the field of transport – in particular with the foral deputy of Viarias Infrastructures and Mobility. Without delay, this issue was also dealt with by the adviser himself, Mr Arriola, with the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, Mr José Luis Ábalos, at the meeting he held with him and with the Secretary of State in this matter, Pedro Saura, at the Ministry's headquarters. Managements that were also carried out with President Renfe, Isaiah Taboas, and with the delegate of the northern area of the railway operator on this matter which, it is worth remembering once again, are the competent ones on the railway lines that you mention in your initiative. I imagine that, as you will know, the result of those efforts, of that collaboration, of that joint work, of that dialogue, of that negotiation between institutions, Renfe is already recovering some of the regional services suspended in March, as the Councillor also pointed out. So, to a large extent, this motion has somehow become obsolete. The striking thing is that, despite the fact that the Councillor has already announced it, you have continued to insist on it. In case they do not have the information, they have been restored, the following lines will be restored: the train 16207 that departs daily from Miranda de Ebro at 7:20, which arrives at the station of Vitoria at 7:46. It should be remembered that the suspension of this service, as Mr Arriola also pointed out, which had been used by some 305 people, the vast majority – 78 % – from Miranda de Ebro, was one of the most problematic, precisely because of the difficulties in giving it an alternative by road. In the efforts of this Government, much emphasis was placed on the need to recover this line, precisely because there were no alternative solutions through intermodality. The other service Renfe will recover is that of train 16204, which makes the reverse journey, that of Vitoria to Miranda. I believe that, in fact, it is already underway, leaving at 14:30 hours from the Alavesa capital and arriving at Miranda at 14:57; a service that attended an average of 154 people. As for the Madrid-Euskadi corridor covered by the Alvia trains, whose frequencies have also been altered and modified by the emergency of the COVID-19, it is already underway since last day 9, especially, the frequency of Fridays, which is most used by Basque citizens; Madrid-Vitoria-San Sebastián, which leaves at 17:40 from Chamartín, and on Sundays the Alvia Bilbao-Madrid, which leaves at 17 hours from the Abando station. Both, as I said, were widely used by Basque citizens residing in Madrid and vice versa, of Madrid citizens residing in Euskadi. The 1600 Irun-Vitoria-Gasteiz train, used by the towns of Llanada Alavesa and the Alsasua area, which left at 5:52 a.m. from the border city and arrived at the capital at 7:58 a.m., which also serves as a neighbourhood in Gipuzkoa, mainly between the stations of Irun and Brinkola-Oñati. That all the frequencies affected during the pandemic have not been recovered? Totally agree, because that is an absolutely undisputed reality. What work is being done to make it possible to recover all the frequencies that existed until the time before the pandemic and the confinement? Also. That the demand has fallen notoriously as a result of the situation and that there are citizens who are looking for other alternatives or who have even stopped using it under other circumstances? Well, it's very true. And here are the demand and user data on the above lines. In any case, Renfe has already announced that it has the will to recover movements as the health situation evolves and, in particular, the demand of travellers, which is naturally affected by this situation, both in regional and mid-distance services. It is therefore clear that the present situation has forced us to adjust. The situation forced these frequencies to be adjusted according to use. What used to suppose a normality now is an absolutely different normality. People change habits, they adapt; just as we do institutions, administrations, in order to respond precisely to these demands and situations. But we also do it to manage resources rationally. Public resources that are of all; and that are intended precisely to provide an adequate service, but also measured and proportional to the demand and circumstances in which we have to work. Therefore, as long as the situation is not normalized, the different administrations will have to work in coordination, as we say in our amendment to the whole; mainly to identify precisely the number of people affected, who do not have an alternative – some of them – of transport by other means, with which we will have to look for alternatives. They will have to study how they can be given a service that even before the pandemic was given to them normally, so that they will come – as has been pointed out in some other intervention – to their work centre, their study centre or also to their health centre. And, analyzing how best to respond to this demand, they will have to apply the services from criteria of proportionality, rationality and, of course, giving an adequate service to the demand and to the existing needs. We believe that it is not a question of demanding, but a question of managing from rationality; but, above all, from collaboration, from dialogue between institutions and from the willingness to solve problems from joint work. I believe that, in this regard, this Government has a commitment to continue doing this work through dialogue, joint work with the competent institutions – in this case with the outlaws – with the municipalities, and also, of course, in the specific case pointed out, with the Madrid Government. If there had been a chance of trading... Well, I don't know. We do not know it, among other things, because no one has contacted us to make that effort to trade. And, as you will understand, before an initiative that is not ours, we do not see ourselves in the obligation to try a transaction if there is no will on the part of the amending groups or, in this case, of the proposing group. Finally, I believe that the representative of Elkarrekin Podemos, Mr Martínez, said that he was surprised by our attitude. I believe that we have tabled an amendment that is in line with the spirit of this Government to continue to work on improving services and providing it with the most appropriate service for citizens. And what I do not understand is why you, being so perfectly in agreement – as you have said – with the original proposal, with the motion of the People's Party, why you do not support it at the outset and yet amend it in its entirety, without even making an amendment to it which adds some kind of question that could enrich it. I mean, you've amended it from the top down. In any case, look, I would like – before I qualify some attitudes as Martian – to review his intervention a little bit, to review the compromise amendment he has reached with the People's Party and, if it suits you, to answer me in the reply. And then I'll give you the corresponding answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u55	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u56	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. President, Vice President, friends, good noon to all. Good. I believe that little can be added to this stage of the debate. We're not gonna start talking about schedules. I was delighted by the mention made by Mr Andueza at 2:40 p.m. in Alavesa. We've moved from Greenwich to Vitoria-Gasteiz. And besides, we're going to be generous enough to share that schedule with the rest of the territories. But the same as this, I also think it has become quite clear that we have been talking for a while about something that is not strictly a competence of the department headed by Mr Arriola. And to me, under no circumstances, Mr.Barrio – you know that I have respect for you both politically and personally – I would never think of devoting to your motion the qualifying epithets that your partner has given to the previous one. But it does seem to me, in a way, that I am addressing Mr Arriola to demand something from the government of the State..., it seems to me that neither in politics nor in life is the attitude of going to demand. And I believe that when we are talking about competences that correspond to different institutions, in this case at all levels, in addition, starting with the government of the State, passing through the Basque Government, the Foral Diputación de Álava or others, and even the municipalities involved. What is needed here is – apart from a sufficient knowledge of the problem to which we are referring, the territory to which we are referring and the problems we are talking about – to use terms such as cooperation, conciliation, co-governance, dialogue, agreement. I think they are quite, quite more important than the demands. From there, I, Mr Barrio, absolutely share or largely share, to a large extent, the speech you have made, the same as I share, to a large extent, the speech made by Mr Fernandez de Betoño. Now, from there, because obviously, as I say, we cannot or do not want to vote in favour of your motion, because it does not seem to us that the way is to tell Mr Arriola to demand anything from anyone. What we demand directly from Mr Arriola, as well as from the Foreign Minister for Transport and Mobility, is that they work with the Government of the State in this case – which is solely responsible for the disappearance of these timetables on the trains – so that the timetables of the trains will again be what they were in the worst case and, at best, be able to make a real analysis of the mobility needs that exist in this territory, as they have already made other institutions – ours, the Basque Government, the Foral Diputación de Álava and our municipalities – and to get to work even to improve them. If I agree with that, but that we spend half a day here debating about it has a limited effect. With this I do not mean, I insist, that I will tell you what debates you can or cannot bring here, it would be good. But the direct thing is to do what the Basque Nationalist Party is going to do, which is to go where Mr.Abalos directly through our group in the Senate. From there, ask for explanations – which seems to be the right thing – to know why certain decisions have been made, and from there, as I say – "to demand" I do not know if it is the word – to pose, negotiate, reach agreements so that in the worst of cases we return to the previous situation and at best we can even improve. Because it is true that in the case of the use of railway infrastructures in Álava we are faced with the fishnet that bites the tail. Because people don't use it, times go down, and times go down, people don't use it. That's true, and we're very concerned, just like you, as much or more than you, Mr. Barrio. We're not just concerned, we're busy. The Foral Diputación de Álava, precisely in view of the areas that have been most directly affected by these decisions, has been obliged to reinforce line 19, to strengthen the 13 bus line in recent months, precisely in order to – fulfilling not only its competences, but also its responsibilities – try to alleviate the situation that has been created, right? I insist, for us public transport is very important, we believe that it must be strengthened and for this it is very important that Renfe, that Adif, take letters on the matter. But, I insist, I think the right thing is to channel it through the Congress of Deputies or, if necessary, the Senate. Mr Martínez Zatón comes and says all Ufano, he says: "I know, I am aware that although I am from a group that is in the government, I am urging that government." No, Mr Martínez Zatón, you, being a member of a party that is in that government, what comes here is to tell someone else to demand that government to which you are a party, to do something. That's throwing the stone and hiding the hand. It is much simpler for your parliamentary group in Madrid to do what ours is going to do, or what others could do in their case, and to address them. And the same goes for Mr Fernandez de Betoño, I quite agree with most of the things you have raised here. But I insist, I think the forum to put them is another; and it is more, not only the forum, I think the time is also the right one. Of the four amending groups that we have intervened so far, as far as I know, two – neither must we have a glass ball – are going to vote affirmatively on the State's General Budgets; two other groups believe that we have publicly expressed our willingness to do so. In the case of his group is more, I have heard several times lately his spokesman say that in front of the concrete wall – I think it was the expression – there are two governments in which they are heard, one is that of Madrid – here they have this opportunity – the other is that of Navarra. Perfect, because in the Plains we not only have a problem with Renfe, Mr. Barrio; we also have a problem with the bus line that is either responsible or relevant or that is skumena I think it would also be important that if we are concerned about the transport of the Albanians – those of the Llanada in this case and those of the valleys that have also been mentioned – we all try to help that situation improve in what is not in the proper hands of the Basque Government. And in the meantime, we will have to worry about those who live on that axis of the N1, on that axis of the railway, in Central Álava, let's call it what we want, Añana and Agurain. And let us also worry about the transportation of the rest of the gangs, which, in our opinion, is also important. Therefore, I insist, we all have an important appointment shortly, and I think it will be important that if we want to demand Renfe, if we want to demand Adif, there is no better tool than to directly focus on the general budgets of the State. And for that, I believe that some of those who amended Mr. Barrio's motion have it much easier than others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u57	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Will Mista speak? No. So when you answer it, Mr. Barrio, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u58	Thank you very much, President. Soon. I thank all the speakers, because they have all acknowledged the insufficiency, all of them. That is, those who have tabled the compromise amendments, who have also said that they support my non-legislative proposal; and the amendments, the groups that support the Government, because they have acknowledged the inadequacy, have acknowledged that the trains, the frequencies have not yet been recovered, and that the first forecasts are not yet 100 percent recovery, are they? And I especially thank Mr. Andueza for reminding me of what Mr. Arriola told me the other day. I think it is good for the debate, for the minutes, and for it to be seen that, in fact, that is what there is, that is what he told me. And, of course, it is that Mr Arriola's intervention is what led me to make a simple, clear motion and, moreover, absolutely respectful of the competences. Because I did nothing but use the Basque Government's channel to demand that the Spanish Government, and that we know it in this Parliament and that the citizens know it above all, that if they oppose there is someone who is demanding it. That is, in the sense of what Mr Grajales was saying, of course it is a matter of competition, but it affects our neighbours and our neighbours, the taxpayers in this country. And in that sense, we have to do something and we can do something. I believe that, moreover, you have said that in the Congress of Deputies we have presented, the People's Group in the Congress of Deputies and other groups have presented an initiative regarding urging the Government to recover all the railway services, and all of them. It is a situation that Euskadi lives, but that lives the rest of Spain, and in some places even in a more bloody way. Well, that debate has been presented, that non-legislative proposal that we hope will be debated has been presented, and we hope that the Ministry and the Government of Spain will also comply with the information and commit themselves to that recovery, which, I say again, is a necessity. It cannot be that the pandemic, that the COVID implies cuts in the mobility of citizens. It can't be. It intimately and essentially affects our health, the health of citizens, cannot be that it also affects the mobility of issues that worked before. What is the key to this motion? Well, the demand; we could have used another word, but I believe that in order to recover what we had and before another institution, the demand is the fundamental thing. And recovery, which is the other, the fundamental. The key is to get back what was there. That is the issue, and that COVID-19 is not the excuse for cutting mobility. I mean, what is the key to this motion? That I think we have to understand, so what do the motions mean, because what does this motion want to do? To help the Basque Government, and that when the Basque Government has to negotiate, when it has to demand, or if it can do so, or if it can convince Mr Ábalos' Ministry of Transport, it does so with the support of Parliament. I think it's the least. That's why I was talking about contacting to negotiate. It is that you were talking about something else, you were talking about continuing the functions that the Basque Government has to perform with the services of the citizens. Well, well, if that can be and we can talk about that development of those functions in other debates about mobility, about transportation... But we were talking about a mandate from this Parliament, a mandate. Call it what you want, or a suggestion or a commitment from this Parliament to demand that the central government, the Spanish government, replenish and recover these lines. I believe that this is the fundamental element of this motion: to help the Government. And that the government and that citizens, in addition, in Álava and in the whole of the Basque Country – as has been said, because this affects the three historical territories – that citizens see that the Basque Parliament wants and commits itself and works for the demand of the recovery of all these. And that runs the risk that it doesn't happen. That is why I do not think it commits you so much to supporting the simple motion that I have tabled, because it is normal. That is, citizens demand that they recover services they had before; it is that we are not talking about new ones. I, consciously, have not spoken of improvements; I have spoken of recovery, of recovery from what was there. And that is the fundamental element, and we would have to give that good news to the citizens: that the Basque Parliament supports the citizens who today feel harmed. And finally, President, Mr Andueza seems to me to have said that people change their habits. Of course, but change the train of proximity, that is, the collective transport that uses hundreds of people for individual cars and for private transport, that is, for hundreds of cars, thousands – those that can be as we add territories or territorial spaces – change the collective transport of a train for hundreds or thousands of individual cars, I think it is not to change habits, it is to worsen habits.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u59	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemus-IU, Martnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u60	Bai, mila esker. I wasn't going to make a reply, but by a couple of references... With the subject of the Martianade – I think I have either explained myself or misunderstood it – I meant that it was neither Martianade nor the initial proposition nor the transaction we have made. Nor does that seem to me to be what you have presented, but it seems to me that it is not relevant to the debate. Nothing more, I didn't say anything more. And then, Mr. Grajales told me that I was hungry to be a member of a government... nothing further from my feelings of pride belonging to a government; I am proud of other things, but not of that. You told me that I was Ufano, and no, I am a member of a government with conviction, well, I am a member of a party that is part of a government, in this case Spanish. And you were referring to several groups. When the General Budgets of the State are presented, if these issues are not included in the draft Budgets – which is what we are working on from our group with Mr Ábalos' ministry, so that these kinds of things are collected there – I also look forward to the amendments from the rest of the groups in this House, which 99% of Parliamentarians in this House are theoretically in favour of this measure. So, well, I think it's a missed opportunity. I do not know where the problem has been, I do not know whether it has been on the proposing side, which he has not negotiated with us, although there was will on our part; and we will support the text because it makes sense and makes sense. It has not been this part of here, but, well, it does not cease to be a further demonstration that, for the moment, this legislature at the level of dialogue and agreement goes a little backwards. Nothing more, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u61	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Stand by the EH team, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u62	Very short, three little points. First, a confession because no one sees us now or hears us. I thought the first unanimous agreement on this subject would take place, and, well, that's what I've learned. The second thing would be a comment on the correction made by EAJ and PSE. The motion was concerned with the reductions made on the trains, and in your correction neither the trains nor the restrictions. I thought it was rather strange. And, third point, our vote is to explain. Evil Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u63	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u64	Thank you, ma'am. One thing I do have to recognize, and it's that they don't cease to surprise me. In any case, I also have no doubt that, in view of their interest in this matter, I imagine that both the group that tabled the motion and EH Bildu, and perhaps also Elkarrekin Podemos, will present the consequential amendments to the general budgets of the State which I hope, on the other hand, with illusion. And, of course, I have no doubt that, to the extent that EAJ will also be presenting the corresponding amendments to resolve this issue, we will have the support of the People's Party for the State's general budgets so that, in some way, the next government will have those budgets and be able to materialise these things that you come here to demand. Mr Barrio, I thank you very much for that collaborative will that you have shown here with the Government of Spain. I sincerely appreciate that. It is a pity that your voice is something similar to a watering hole in a desert, but, well, in any case, I would appreciate it if you would call your colleagues from Madrid so that you could have that collaborative spirit invade you and, for once, have a little sense of responsibility, a sense of state. EH Bildu was talking about implementation of stops, talking about using stations that are no longer being used. Well, if they are not used, obviously, it is because there has not been a demand to continue using those stops and, in any case, if they were given the use that has been given them, logically, the efficiency of the service would be undermined because it would waste a lot of time for that station not to be used practically. In any case, as has been usual in your first intervention, you have taken advantage of the issue of the proximity train to get into the high-speed train – something that is quite predictable in you on the other hand. And to Mr Martínez Zatón, at last, I think you have quite a considerable amount of nerve on this issue, because once again, we have to remind you that you are part of the Government of Spain. And I find it quite demagogue that you come here, that you come here to demand a government of which you are a part. I would like to know what you would say if any member of the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra signed a compromise amendment requiring something from a department or ministry that you lead. Be responsible, learn to do politics at once. Take it off the phone, and tell the members of your party's government, which is ruling in coalition with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, to take it to the Council of Ministers, to tell Mr Ábalos. They're not doing juggling exercises here to try to find a profile that all they can do is undraw. But have they not yet learned the lesson of the last autonomous elections? Have they not yet learned that with their follower attitude all they do is fatten these gentlemen? But have they not yet realized that they need a runway to know exactly where they are, what is their responsibility in the Government of Spain? But you haven't found out yet, Mr. Martinez Zatón? To top it off, those martianadas that you qualify translate into the same vote for the original motion of the People's Party, as for the compromise amendment that you have signed with EH Bildu. If they so agreed, they would have voted from the outset on the motion of the People's Party, and they would have avoided making any kind of amendment. Anyway. I think, once again, you do an exercise of the impossible. They're trying to show themselves in Euskadi as something they're not. And what I can tell you is that citizenship will never understand that, by belonging to a government like the Government of Spain, you have the courage, the quail and the little shame of coming here to demand that same government. Do your job, talk to your colleagues and try to solve the problems by the way you have to solve them, and not by trying to show a profile that, of course, does not belong to you. In any case, as I was preparing the reply, it has occurred to me that it would not be wrong – and with this I conclude, Madam President – to write a letter to the Olentzero, which could be something similar to this: "My dear officer, looking at the presents of the next Christmas, I will make a request for you. We've been honest and worked in this Parliament. But please bring in a dictionary of synonyms and antonyms to collect EH, demand to separate a little, and what it is to do in conjunction with each other. The Podemics, please, to let them know where they are and where they are. And PPkoi, a timecap, see if they're being updated. To the members of the government, please and favour, patience a little to stand up to these things."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u65	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, honestly, I also don't know why we haven't reached an agreement. I hope that we will reach agreement on this in the future. I don't know. Mr Barrio, I think that if you were the proposer, it would have been up to you, at least, to address these groups. I don't know if he's been with those guys. Those of you have already seen that you have reached an agreement between them. An agreement that, I'm afraid, will not prosper. But, in any case, I must also say that Mr Fernandez de Betaño has substantially improved some of the initial proposals. It was Mr. Martinez Zatón who said, "Why haven't we reached an agreement?". Well, as far as I'm concerned, Mr. Martínez Zatón, I can tell you that the Alaves can be special, we can be rare, we can even have our own time zone... But what I do believe, in any case, is that we Alaves deserve some respect in parliamentary activity as well. Then, when someone says, in its point number two: "The Basque Parliament urges the Government of Spain, the Basque Government..." and such, such... "that within a maximum of three months they set up an inter-institutional working group to promote the development of the railway in the historical territory of Álava, through the corridor of the existing railway Altsasu-Miranda, as part of the strategy..." such, such. What do you mean, a working group? I do not know if you know that here there is one thing called the Authority of Alava Mobility, which already exists, and which already works in these areas. But what are you asking here? And secondly, you once again urge the world to "assessing existing railway infrastructure, reorganize, boost the service of closeness, greater frequencies, greater regularity...", such... And a fourth point, which follows in the same line: "to analyze the suitability, the possible locations of new avenuers in the city...". But, listen, if you don't have it, ask me; I'll get it to you. It is that all these studies that you ask to be done already exist. It's just that the working group you're asking to be believed already exists. I don't know what you were amending, you've heard bells and you don't know where. At least Mr Fernandez de Betoño has brought the transactional to a correct scope, because he knows these studies quite well. But, listen, in this particular case, when they make amendments, at least that they have some contact with reality. If not, there's the answer to why I, of course, haven't given any second thought to reaching a compromise with you. Although I insist, the person responsible for whether or not he was able to have sex with this subject was Mr Barrio, who, as far as I know, has not contacted Mr Andueza or myself. With you, I don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u67	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. After discussion, we'll put the original text of Mr. Barrio Baroja's motion to the vote. After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 67; votes given, 70; in the east, 32; the opponents, 38; abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u68	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote together for the middle-term correction signed by Podemos-IU and EH Collect. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 67; the votes given, 70; the 10th, 31; the contrary, 38. Abstations, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u69	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. And finally, we vote for the Eucabertians and Sociialists of Eukal. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 67; votes given, 70; in favour of 38. The contrary, 32; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u70	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The Moment, introduced by the staff of the Greys of Misto, Amaia Martín, on the 12th of September on the 12th of the Royal Moyua Square. Discipline and final resolution. The call of the proposed team, Mrs Martín, is your word, to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u71	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, to say that the motion that Vox brings to this plenary today has no other meaning than that of being told why we are voting in this House for measures that are then considered better not to comply, or not to comply in their entirety. On October 3, 2019, a compromise amendment was adopted, with broad support and support from this House. You must know what you voted for, but I will make a summary for the citizens. The House voted as follows: "The Basque Parliament rejects acts of public recognition of ETA prisoners leaving prison." It urged those who organized and promoted them to stop doing so, for a matter of sensitivity and respect for the victims and their families. This Parliament reiterated the need to guarantee the policies of recognition, truth, justice and reparation due to the victims of terrorism, as well as to take measures to prevent their offending, humiliation and victimization. And also in this Parliament, a call was made to promote among Basque citizens the delegitimization of the use of violence as a resource for the totalitarian imposition of political projects, both in the past and in the present and in the future. Well, no past, no present, no future. Mr Erkoreka, after his party voted in favour of all these measures, disagrees by saying that the central investigating courts systematically and almost in all cases refuse to prohibit this type of act on a precautionary basis and that, in addition, banning it would be a disproportionate violation of fundamental rights. And we ask: why do they vote in favour? Why deceive the citizens and victims of ETA in this way? Take consistency and clear guidelines. How will the Ertzaintza be clarified when they are asked to carry out a task of controlling such acts if you do not? In view of what we have seen, let's refer to the law, see if we can make something clear to ourselves, see if we can enforce the law that came out of this Parliament. Act No. 4/2008 of 19 June 2008 on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Terrorism states in its article 4 on the dignity of victims: "The Basque public authorities shall ensure that victims are treated with respect for their rights". It expands on subparagraph (b): "They shall take appropriate measures to ensure the safety, physical and psychological well-being and privacy of victims and their families and, in particular, to prevent and prevent the conduct of acts carried out in public involving the discrediting, contempt or humiliation of victims or their families, the exaltation of terrorism, tribute or public award of distinctions to terrorists, and shall act in particular against such paintings and posters, and, where appropriate, investigate those which may constitute a criminal offence, and the possibility of the exercise of popular action by the Administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country for the defence of this right is open." The injuries to the victims of terrorism are not only in the tributes, we see them every day in many of our towns, cities, streets: painted that remain for months on our walls, banners that ask for the return of prisoners, graffiti with the faces of the murderers. I don't know if you know him, it's Gorliz's breaker. Year after year, I'm going to this beach for a few days. This breakwater, moreover, can only be reached in a boat. It is curious that these paintings are always intact and that they do not deteriorate either by the effect of the water of the sea or by the weather. We believe there must be a team in charge of your maintenance. I'll give you another example. Something we all see every day. The classic insignia of the ultraleft that put us even in the milk tetrabriks. They're trying to normalize it. And it's in our streets and squares, without anyone removing it immediately. Another example. I could put in thousands. Biurdana Institute in Navarra, where they study young people between the ages of 12 and 18, all minors. It is very worrying the hatred that is inoculated in this youth in the face of the passiveness of our institutions. What they do is pass on to our young people who are heroes who gave their lives for a dream. Lie. We all know that's not the case. They're not, and we know it. They're murderers and accomplices of murderers. Why don't the State Security Forces and Corps act immediately? Who's responsible for keeping them so long in time? Equidistance is a terrible mistake in these cases. If Parliament, as we have mentioned before, condemns and commits itself to the victims, as it has said, then it must exercise its noble task as legislator to give tools to the police, thus avoiding these phenomena. But if we do nothing, ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament becomes an example of pure hypocrisy. De facto Since they are not consistent with what they sometimes vote for, since Vox we only want the law to be complied with, which I assume, moreover, we will all agree, that it to be complied with. Because since they voted all these measures in 2019, there have been 200 acts of exaltation and recognition in our land to this gang of murderers. Thus producing an unimaginable pain to the relatives of the victims who, unfortunately, have not been few. These tributes to ETA members must end. We consider them inhuman. We can't win over those who won't be able to win. They have not collaborated to know what ETA has done with the missing. Do you know how many citizens are still missing? 378. That's 378 broken families, children without parents. 378 lives broken. And in the meantime, their killers are still unpunished, they're still free, enjoying everything they've taken. From Vox, the party to which I represent, we demand a defence of the victims of terrorism that impose, as harshly as possible, the law that was voted in this Parliament. We're going to put all the meat in the roaster to put an end to the tribute to whitewash the terrorist band ETA and its criminal history. We are convinced that this Parliament has the same objective. We therefore propose something that frees the Ertzaintza and the Department of Security and, therefore, the Basque Government from any doubt about the will to put an end to this theatre of terror, which represents the most foolish thing in democratic society: the tribute to murderers, kidnappers and extortioners. Some attestations we have seen do not go beyond collecting the number of attendees, timetables and generalist definitions of what happened. Many events held by the political network of ETA are presented to the Administration by any association, as a simple social activity in which part of the public road is to be occupied. They constantly hide from us the reality of what is to be celebrated. And we must put the mechanisms in place so that this does not happen again. We cannot allow associations that ask for permission to dance, e.g. aurresku We introduce this motion and appeal for consensus. It is not our desire to enter a race to see who best defends the victims of terrorism. I can assure you. We want to contribute constructively to the removal of these initiatives from our landscape. It is not our intention to question the role of Ertzaintza either. We do not want this plenary to focus on blaming which institution or power of the State is responsible for these tributes and is responsible for these tributes to date to be celebrated throughout the entire Basque geography. We are sure that the majority of this Parliament will support the following measures that we are proposing. "Parliament urges the Department of Security of the Basque Government, within three months, to develop a specific protocol for Ertzaintza to ensure the correct investigation of acts carried out in public involving discrediting, contempt or humiliation of the victims or their families, exalting terrorism, paying tribute or granting public distinctions to terrorists, in violation of Law 4/2008 of 19 June on Recognition and Reparation to Victims of Terrorism, issued by this Parliament". These specific protocols of police action, which in other matters considered likely to be criminal, should consist in gathering true information from the moment a public administration is informed of the celebration of the event, what is the reason for the celebration, who will be paying that tribute, what it will consist of, what slogans will be reflected in the banners, whether it will be silent or not, and the slogans that will be shouted. I assure you that if, in that protocol that would have to affect the collection of data from that initial communication and in the subsequent detailed report of the Ertzaintza, each and every one of the names of those whom the individual is to be honored has been killed, or the corresponding administrative sanctions are processed if the act results in something different from what has been called, this would end once and for all with these shameful acts that are organized for the sole purpose of humiliating the victims of terrorism and writing a false account of the criminal gang.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u72	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over the uncorrected teams to the popular Euskal Group-Ciudad, Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the Bureau, members of the Government present here, Lehendakari, Vice-President. This motion originated in an inquiry that referred to a tribute that took place on 12 September in Bilbao, in the square of Moyua, also known as the Elliptical Square. I wish it had been the last one. But the truth is that the parliamentary procedures and the times we have in the legislative and control chambers of the Government take their time. And since then, there have been new offenses against the victims of terrorism. For example, on 29 September in Hernani more than a hundred people received the Marta Igarriz era, made it a hall of honor, applauded it and threw it away. Marta Igarriz, for whom she does not remember, served 15 years in prison for collaboration with ETA's Amaiur command. It wasn't the last one either. On 7 October, just eight days ago, hundreds of people received in Mondragon Kepa Arkauz, convicted of terrorism. On the same day, another hundred people received Ekhiñe Eizagirre, after being arrested by the Civil Guard. Both were arrested for being responsible for an ETA zulo located in June 2019, where different types of explosives, timers, detonating cord, detonators and other elements were found for the manufacture of explosive devices. So, up to 16 in what's going on in the year. It is difficult to keep track because, despite the pandemic, the truth is that these acts continue to happen. These are only the actual tributes, but if we add the so-called days of struggle, the demonstrations, and other acts, we come to some 170 acts of aggravation to the victims as far as 2020 is concerned. It's hard to keep track, as I say. It's a phenomenon that's going to get worse. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2019, according to the Covite Observatory, they were in the order of over a hundred, about 110. In 2020, due to the pandemic and those limitations that we have experienced for months, it would have been logical for that number of acts to have been reduced, but we have already been around 60, and it is still two and a half months before the end of the year. Given this data, it seems clear that from the public authorities we are not doing enough to avoid it. And I say that we are not doing enough because I would like to include us, this Basque Parliament too. We have to say enough. And from the institutions we have an obligation to protect the memory and dignity of the victims of terrorism. As has been said before, in the last parliamentary term this Parliament approved, after an interesting debate – in the Journal of Sessions it is and I recommend its reading – a non-legislative proposal, GNP 91/2019. There it was approved, with a very broad agreement of this House – practically all the parties voted in favour – that the acts of public recognition of ETA prisoners leaving prison were rejected; that the public authorities were urged, within their powers, to take measures to prevent the offending, humiliation and revictimization of the victims of terrorism, and that an appeal was made to promote the delegitimization of the use of violence as a resource for the imposition of political and totalitarian projects. What's the result? A year later we checked how there are still welcome, ongiitorris Those who ended the lives of their victims or deprived them of their rights and freedoms through terrorist acts and acts of harassment – that low-intensity violence that was said before – cannot be remembered and honored as heroes. They can't be, because that way it extends a sort of, a kind of social normalization of these people and, above all, of the behaviors they carried out. We believe, from the PPCiudadans coalition, that we must continue to work towards a social commitment in this House to stop such acts and, above all, condemn such acts and avoid them. We will work from our coalition to make this society truly a society free of such acts and such tributes. We want memory, dignity and justice for the victims. That is why we are voting in favour of this motion, because in this matter there cannot be half inks: either he is with the victims or he is on the side of the executioners. We know very well the side we're on. That is why we are also going to promote another kind of initiative throughout the legislature so that this kind of tribute will never happen again. And I want to say something else from this rostrum, and it is not enough to end the tributes to people convicted of terrorism. It's not enough. It is a necessary but not sufficient condition to achieve what is called the normalization of society, or what some call the minimum ethical. In Euskadi there must be tributes, but tributes on the other side, tributes to the victims, not to the executioners. I recognize this government and its members – many of them are part of the previous government – that interesting initiatives have been taken and initiatives have been taken, and I believe that from the heart, but much more can be done. All victims must have a place of remembrance and commemoration in the very places where crimes were perpetrated, which must also be protected because they were not safe from acts of vandalization. And those who harm, harm or sabotage these places, for they have to be punished, they have to be punished. There has to be an act of delegitimization of this type of conduct, because if there is no act of delegitimization of this type of conduct, they end up normalizing, they lose their importance and, as I say, this contributes to the fact that we cannot move on and, above all, we do not offer the victims the treatment they really deserve. Just a month ago, the plaque of the colleague of the People's Party Gregorio Ordóñez was sabotaged in San Sebastián. It wasn't the first time, and it's not going to be the last, we know that. She's not the only victim they do something like that to. But it seems that it is not enough for some to have killed, it seems that, in addition, we must continue to show hatred. When the memory of the victims is tainted, it involves additional suffering to those who have stayed here, to their relatives, to their friends. It is therefore necessary, and I stress again, that there must be a social and public delegitimization of any kind of action that violates the memory of the victims. For this reason, acts such as this one that led to this motion cannot go unpunished and all remedies must be made available to the public authorities to identify the perpetrators, locate them and punish them. Basque society – and I'm about to finish – has a lot to go on. We still have a lot to go on to put the victims in their right place. The victims of terrorism are an ethical and moral reference for Euskadi and for all of Spain. As long as there is only one act of tribute to a executioner or an attack on a victim, there will be no real coexistence; and as long as such acts continue to take place in Euskadi, we will be here to denounce it and to support all initiatives in this regard. That is why we are going to vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u74	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together the representative of Podemos-IU, has the word Mrs. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u75	[[Microphone Off spoke]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists? Mr Price mustn't speak. Mr. Suzuga from EH Collect? He mustn't speak. Eubertarians? Not even Mr. Katchas. So, what about the answers, Mrs. Martín?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u77	I will be very brief in this second speech. I believe that what we have proposed technically is simple to carry out and, moreover, I am almost certain that most of the members of this House, although they have not been positioned – except those on my left – within them share my concerns and my pretensions, regardless, in this case, of the ideological and political differences that may exist between us. We are only trying to reinforce this Parliament's account against the holding of tributes to the people, I repeat, and that parliamentary activity can be useful in stopping the victims of terrorism from being humiliated. A criminal terrorism that committed 3,000 attacks, 864 murders and more than 7,000 victims. Let me also add one point: of 864 people who have been killed by the terrorist gang ETA, 208 have been members of the Civil Guard; 149, national police; 86, military; 32, politicians; 24, municipal police; 13, ertzainas – our police force –; 10, professionals of the Administration of Justice and a mosso d'esquadra. What do you think of this story? Terrible, isn't it? Nearly 25% of the people killed by ETA have also been civilian guards, who have actively contributed to the disappearance of this terrorist group and who have been one of the bloodiest groups that has put before this criminal gang. Let us not forget, it is honest citizens, workers who are destined to this land to defend our freedom and the freedom of all Basques who are threatened by ETA. We can say that the freedom we enjoy today in the Basque Country, in large part, is due to this body and, of course, continues to do a great job in our society, contributing to the safety of all citizens. So, after all the above, I can only say less alde hemendik generates daitezela It violates EITB's general programming principles, based on the values recalled in section 2.2: "hatred or discrimination on grounds of gender, race or any other personal or social circumstance shall not be incited". They violate section 3.1 on the right to participate and refer to respect for opinions transmitted as "a model of guarantee for third parties and not harmful to other persons, groups or public or private institutions". Paragraph 4.1, which reflects that EITB should clearly differentiate the information from the opinion, is overstepped. "The information shall follow the objective account of the facts, without opinion or judgements of the journalist's value." The basic principles of information – truthfulness, informational balance, impartiality, neutrality, independence and credibility – are blatantly ignored, showing only an interested bias, manipulated and with clear ideological intentions contrary to the Constitution itself and to democracy. But it is also that they attack the basic public service missions that are reflected in their quality contract-program: "Guarantee quality information, with contents that are faithful reflection of reality duly contrasted". I tell you, it is the families of 208 people who have been killed for being state officials, members of an exemplary body who have done extraordinary work to save lives and guarantee freedom. And Basque public television is dedicated to whitewashing the speech of terrorists to point out this body as justification for ETA's criminal violence. Today, the best tribute we can pay to all the victims of terrorism would be to banish from the public chain a report of these characteristics which is very close, if it does not, to the moral justification of terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u78	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The Basque Popular Groups-The agent of the Ciudadans, Mr. Gordillo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u79	President, from the seat. I simply referred earlier, in my first speech – and I will be very brief now – to a reflection that I also think is a collective reflection, not only a reflection of the group that has proposed it, we who have spoken and the other groups in the House. The reflection is: what is being done wrong, what are we doing wrong so that still today these kinds of tributes, these kinds of acts happen. I summarize it in one sentence and I also apply it myself, and it is to stop really looking elsewhere in all areas. That is why I believe that the fundamental point of what we have to do to put an end to these kinds of acts and to actually delegitimize these kinds of acts is summarized in three main points. First of all, we must combat acts of terrorism, which is obviously the responsibility of the State Security Forces and Corpses, we must use the protocols at their disposal and, if not, of course, design them. Secondly, there is a need for social and institutional recognition of the victims of ETA terrorism. Thirdly, the delegitimization of terrorism is very important. Where? In public institutions, those exercising public power, in schools, in institutes and in the media. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u80	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Now that the discussion is over, we can vote for Mrs Martín's original text of Mrs. Grayleña's motion. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 74; in favour seven; opponents, 67; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u81	So, not allowed original text. I interrupt the entire meeting until about ten o'clock. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-one. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at forty-one.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u82	First point in theme list: "The Moment, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Houseyard and Legrand EH of the Union, concerning the removal of the field of equality and of the Regeneration as the President. Discipline and final resolution. The caller's turn, Mrs. Houseboy, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. It may not be Coronavirus, but we'll all end up with pneumonia. At least I'm cold and I'm turning this feeling back. Well, for the start of today, I'd like to start with the leading of a documentary I've seen this weekend. This was Ruth Bader Ginsburg, a progressive judge in the United States who died recently. The documentary is very interesting, and I advise you to see it entirely, but there's a part of it that's very interesting. It shows that a moment had come when the Government proposed to suspend the law of the United States which was to ensure the rights of vote for the people who were racialized. The tribunal gave way because it admitted so, and gave the contrary opinion. He used to say that the law was still protecting people, and that we'd lose that protection when we left the law. And very, I don't know, he used to define it with pretty words, he used to say: "Esto es dehacerse del paraguas en entre de porque tú no te estas nunndo." And what's happening to us – and the debate we've brought today seems to me to have a lot of this – is that we get rid of the umbrella because we have that feeling that we're not getting wet, but it's actually gagging. He's pitching patriarchy on all four sides. And the problem is that already the umbrella we had was small and that, for example, with today's pitcher we know that a little umbrella is useless, because we get wet on the four sides, because patriarchy comes where you least expect it, right, left, up or down, like a good pitcher. And the problem is that we removed that umbrella by believing that transversality was already in our institutions. And this little, transparent umbrella, because we saw everything we had there that was shut up and we're going to close up stop stop stop at this moment. A couple of weeks ago we received some explanation from the President, and in this procedure of the legislature we presented the motion, as many others have done today. And we brought the words of many feminists, members of feminist institutions, of social techniques, of the Board of Education, or of the feminists of journalists, which I shall not repeat today. I think we were all very clear and followed before I brought them here. Bath gaur beast bi ekarpen aipatu nahiko nituzke, you doublako bear on where laburbiltzen gute ustez emakunde Lehendakaritzatik ateratzeak ekarriko two aterki-ixte hori. María Silvestrek eta Arantxa Elizondok idazten had "that Emakunde's position was ideal for promoting cross-cutting equality policies in the Basque administration. It was the only institute of autonomous equality with secondment to the Presidency. And, precisely, this was an admired and valued issue." And literature specialising in public policies of equality attested to this. The secondment of Emakunde to Lehendakaritza with the rank of vice-counsel, with the presidency of the Lehendakari, both of his Board of Directors and of the Interdepartmental Commission, placed the institute in a suitable place to be able to cross-cutting equality policies throughout the Basque administration. There are equality units responsible for the concrete implementation of the Basque Equality Act in the areas assigned to it by each department, and in the hands of Emakunde the coordination and impetus of the Government as a whole remained. The position of a public body such as Emakunde in the government's organizational chart is relevant in assessing its capacity to influence the application of gender mainstreaming It doesn't seem to be exactly the best time – this one that's scarring us, apart from patriarchy, COVID, much COVID. It does not seem to be exactly the best time to limit the action of the body that has been defining and promoting public equality policies in Euskadi for 32 years. Equality policies cannot be implemented only from an institute or department. We agree on that. They must be at the foundation and foundation of any public policy, because any political decision has an impact on people's lives and also has an impact on the promotion of equality or inequality. And we said when we introduced this motion, or when we did an internation, two weeks ago, and at the very moment, we announced that we would present a motion after this interaction. We proposed two weeks, all of us here were self-critics, reflecting, and active investigation. For I stayed with one thing President Urkullu said to me: "On the basis of my commitment to equality, I understand that the time has come to encourage an engagement to equality." And in that "I understand," I asked who asked for this, who made it clear that it was the right decision to make a president of the Empire. I don't think we've understood and that the opposite has been requested since the announcement and all the collectives we discussed in the interpelation itself. And de pass It is, therefore, one of the ends of this motion to stretch out the hand to those who have discussed and censured. Yesterday, when I spoke to Madame Arriguega, I told her that I was very concerned about the beginning of learning, beginning with such a vast number of agents, because your government has very fat challenges. And in your government program you have stated these words: We have the reform of the law of equality to face the machista of violence, and there is a proposition about the rationalization of the hours which surrounds the watch. Who are we going to have to argue with? Now, at this moment, there are all those responsible who have spoken against the decision they made. And when they have not seen, when they have not felt self-critics, reflection about their planning. I think it's just as I used to say, that it's hard or disturbing to me, when we get to the other hinges we'll have in hand, because we need them to reach all those things we'll have in hand. And besides that, even at that time, we've received answers from the government. And a reply said: "It's the first time that equality has been placed in the centre of the action of a series." And let me be a little mean. Is it the first time that equality is placed in the centre of the action of a series? I know you didn't mean that. But it is a very troubling matter to think that equality will be performed for the first time by the thought of carrying it into a department. And in that confession of all you have done, and all that you have not done, I dare say, it shows, that this answer shows the question of equality which is supposed to be carried to a department. For here it is believed that in this answer there has been no such thing as play-actor, which has hitherto been in the centre of no one, there has been no indirect in it. And once again, we believe, this strengthens the direction of the Election as President in the vicinity of certain departments. "Besides, this department," continued the answer, "in human rights, in justice, in the answer to association, in veins, in multiplicity, in social police, and in the struggles against the violence of women." And even yesterday, when I spoke to so many spokesmans, I will give this answer one of the things I planned. It seems to me that it is a serious mistake to think that it is a collection of all the struggles that relate to equality and peers, and that it is placed there together with so many other subjects, and that it does not touch other parts. And the second end is with this motive: When we mix with the literary subject, mixed up as a subject in a corner with social politics, and without removing it, we believe that it is a serious mistake to mistake the importance of all these politics, but we believe that the two which are equal and half of the common people are the only ones of certain politics. And again we say, the third end of our motion, and the last that is said: to retreat. Let us resume the legislation, and resume the important instrument we have in our hands, the strength and centre of the results, so that we may continue to make a larger umbrella against all the storms we have in hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing over the teams that were running the corrections to the popular Euskal Group, representative of Ciudadus, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the chief physician, all the members of the legislature, all the afternoons. We have a specific proposal which EH Collect has presented to us in the presidency of the Chambers, and not to be in the section which Mrs. Artolalarand directs. The initiative that we are discussing today brings as a cause that Emakunde joins Lehendakaritza and not the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy headed by Mrs Artolazabal. Since the coalition of the People's Party-Citizens we have no doubt advocated strengthening equality policies and taking all the necessary measures to eliminate the discrimination and inequalities that unfortunately still persist in our society. The policy of equality ought to be strengthened, and this must be the end, especially in order to overcome the differences which these women suffer. We are therefore concerned about the content of those policies that are being implemented to achieve real and effective equality, and therefore that these policies are effective. What we care about is that the policies that are really established or that the policies that start are effective and that the goal of equality is that of equality. Design programmes to support victims of gender-based violence in specific areas, such as prevention, awareness-raising, care and protection. Dagozkion programak bideratzea sparru deberdinetan. Improve and revise protocols in order to provide faster and more effective attention. Indarrean daviden protokoloak berrikusi age indartzea, attention integral emateko. We therefore call for that comprehensive attention and for equality policies to have an absolutely cross-cutting approach. Like I said, we care about the content. We are not going to sue and we are not therefore going to criticise the Basque Government for changing the location of Emakunde de Lehendakaritza to the Department of Equality, Social Policy and Justice, since it also includes, as its name says, these equality policies. We believe in a cross-sectional treatment of these actions. And we don't want to suspect that because they're moving to another department this isn't going to be the case. We'll be vigilant. But in any case, we don't want to put suspicions simply in a name change. We believe that since Emakunde's action, even though it is currently incardinated in another structure of the Basque Government's organizational chart, the various departments are also involved in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the policies that are being implemented. And on the other hand, we have considered it opportune given that at the end – as has been decided or decided – the last legislature was not processed. We regret, I have to say, that it could not be dealt with, although the draft law amending the Equality Act was referred. The legislative timetable did provide for the referral of a bill for the eradication of violence against women, but in the end it was decided to amend the current Equality Act of 2005. That project came to the House. Couldn't handle it. We do believe that it would have been better to have handled that bill there. It would have been gratifying, of course, to be able to resolve many issues that are currently on the table and that have not yet been resolved in the area of gender-based violence. And especially because we believe that, well, the time to have it processed was the previous legislature. And in that sense, we have already made the corresponding criticism. But that is why, Madam Counsellor, and since there is also the lehendakari, I would like to take this opportunity to urge you once again, as soon as possible, to refer this draft to the House, the draft amendment to the Law on Equality of Women and Men which regulates the eradication of violence against women with a specific section. That's the contents of our correction. Finally, we believe that the policy of equality must be developed from the Renaissance, and that different divisions must also be involved in these politics. And in the same way we demand, as far as possible, that the law of women should be opposed to the violence of women, the law of equality, as it is possible, to bring them back as quickly as possible to the legislature. That's all, thank you. There are no further amendments. Two initiatives are therefore put to the vote: that of the proposing group and the amendment by the People's Party. I do call on those groups that support the Government to, well, look at and analyse this amendment rigorously and as it deserves, because I do not think it is very far from the approaches currently being advocated by the groups that support the Government. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u86	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto. It's your word, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u87	Good afternoon. I want to say that the only reality that has been experienced this morning in the Basque Parliament is that PSOE has voted alongside Bildu and PNV to prevent ETA's tributes from being eradicated. Having said that, they are committed to saying that we are weak sex. And that's what you encourage with your policy of constant victimization. They say they want to empower women, and for that they give hundreds of thousands of euros in subsidies. But then they treat us as weak, as useless people who need the law to be partial to protect us from the misfortune – according to you – of being a woman in Spain. To protect us from whom? Of the men? No, no, We don't want this law. We want a law that protects us from men and women who want to hurt us, from the scoundrels who seek to do evil, regardless of the pair of chromosomes they have, X or Y. We are concerned about the victims, of course, the abused women, but also the children, the elderly, men and those who suffer stigmatized the violence of their same-sex partner. We know that there are many more women who suffer from this violence, but that should not turn the rest of the victims into second-rate victims. Let's talk about Emakunde. Emakunde receives €7 million a year, of which €2,230,000 is for staff costs, and another €2 billion for operating costs. I will give you some data: 24.533 euros were spent on accommodation during 2019 – this means more than 2,000 euros per month in hotels –, 38,193 euros in translations, 111,000 euros in collaborations with ETB. However, what are the requirements for access to single payment economic aid? Do not charge more than EUR 648 per month. A real misery. The comparison is serious: 24,000 euros – I repeat – in hotels, 38,000 in translations and then there is no money to help the victims, so that they can free them from the yoke of a toxic relationship. In Vox we are belligerent about these institutions because with the 7 million that the institution costs us to the Basques instead of having 300 people dedicated to helping the victims of ill-treatment, we only have a few. Where's the rest of the money? He's probably going down the pipe. From Vox we believe that resources should reach all victims of violence, whether or not women, in a more agile manner and use resources in that regard, avoiding creating superlative entities that become placement agencies. It is not just a Vox request, it is a fundamental requirement in the crisis in which we are all now immersed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u88	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mrs. González, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u89	Good afternoon, head of the table. Partners. Partners. My mother's name is Teresa and she's been a farmer all her life. I'm a daughter, granddaughter, sister-in-law and niece of farmers. And I want to congratulate them and all the women who work in the rural world because today is their day and because they are the ones who support our lives. They produce, cultivate, care for the land, the ecosystem and our food. And they are also affected by the issue we are dealing with here today. Because it's the day of the peasant women. Let's keep fighting for the rights our mothers, the amones, the sisters can't have. A hug to the women who keep our lives from the peasant world. "Y porque el disarllo del statuso de la mujejori peasant no puede quedar I wasn't in the cajón; sobre todo, arrconado le coo ado." Today was the time to step forward, not back. It was time to send a strong message about the equality of this government. This Government could have taken the social sense of feminism as a political practice with social movements to transform the failures of a system that does not care, that is sick and that generates levels of poverty and precariousness and inequality that we cannot tolerate. Now, at this time, we need stronger equality policies than ever before to face reactionary voices, to avoid the increase in inequalities resulting from the crisis; because, in addition, they point out that it is the system itself that produces and reproduces inequality. Now more than ever, we have to be clear where and how to place the feminist agenda in public politics. Now you have to level it, and show me where the government wants to give equality. A backward step is unforgivable. And we see the regeneration as a step back, but not just together for Podemos. Some experts, who have been part of the Renaissance's history, and even today, have coordinations of life in the Middle Ages, the Holy Authority Committee itself, the Centuries of Equality, and also the Workers of the Election, have declared it in public. This relocation creates doubts. Symbolically, it is also a gesture that is not understood, especially if they are taken as a reference, on the one hand, the prize he received in 2015 from the UN, when he was awarded the prize for having demonstrated excellence in the implementation of the Basque Law for the Equality of Women and Men, and, on the other hand, because in all modern societies equality policies are truncal, with not only functional but also symbolic characteristics. A letter sent by the Emakunde Advisory Committee to Lehendakaritza said: "From international bodies on issues of equality, States are urged to ensure that equality bodies are in a central hierarchical place so that the impetus for equality policies is brought to society". And the symbolic message that this decision carries, both for citizens and for all their local and territorial administrations, is that equality policies in this country are relegated to social policies, not to mention the danger that there is of continuing to insist that macho violence should be addressed from the judicial sphere in an exclusive way or linked only to welfare policies. The message which opens by this decision is that the policy of fighting violence against the machison is continued only when violence shows the most severe expressions, regardless of prevention, integrated attention, and the view of the victims. We share the concern of those who have expressed their opinion since the change of secondment of Emakunde is known, because with this decision the Basque Government takes a step back and returns to assistanceism more than 40 years ago. And in this time, now, it's time to move forward, it's time to move forward. That is only possible with resources and with a transformative feminist bet, a bet from your technical team, your political team. A clear bet to monitor the mainstreaming of equality into all policies, which is at the centre of policy as the main stream and is effectively carried out. There were two possible leading examples: In the Confederation, in order to ensure indirectity and the presence of decisions, or a large body of individuals exclusive of equality, more importantly, to increase the budget and the human resources. The imaginary pattern is neither one nor the other. It maintains the fertility as an autonomous organization, but it resurrects it in a series of sanctorical policies with the risk of blurring equality. In fact, what we are proposing here and debating is that the technical, budgetary resources, all the necessary resources for equality policies, do not suffer any setbacks. This change in secondment, the lack of legislative progress in the past legislature and the lack of gender mainstreaming in all policies reflect that not everything is being done, that the margin for improvement is also very wide, and I would say more, little is being done. But according to what we read in your government program presented on Tuesday, we're worried. While they insist that equality is cross-cutting in all the policies of their Government, not all axes include actions or initiatives aimed at reducing inequalities between men and women. Nothing has changed, even though it repeats like a mantra, it will not become a reality. It's just events that mattered. For we all know that there is a great distance from words, and it seems to us that this government is projecting, designing, and saying, until it does not obey its word. We do feel that something has changed, because from the review of his government programme we see that commitments related to gender equality have been framed exclusively in the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy; and the commitments to eradicate inequalities in the rest of departments, including Lehendakaritza, we do not see that they are not developed or implemented with broader initiatives. I would like to give you an example: it is not understood that the plan to tackle the wage gap falls unilaterally within the Department of Equality and, however, it is not mentioned among the initiatives of the Department of Employment, where only the reinforcement of the measures against the wage gap is proposed and commitments that have been legally binding since 2005 are reiterated. It is curious that with regard to gender equality there are only 4 specific commitments, but none of them relate to the transition to a new model of care. I'm just as heavy as the care model, but it's that the care model is pressing to address it, it's necessary to address it. Today, we vote for the Moment presented by the EH Collectors. This motive demands re-establishment at the center of the results, as a autonomous organization attached to the President, in order to enable him to operate on an efficient mode of visibility, indirectness, and co-ordination. If nothing has changed, then why was this rebirth necessary? Fund and forms are necessary for equality, to advance to true equality, one as important as the other. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u91	Yes, thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Today we are going to talk about equality, the importance of equality policies, the value of these policies, the need to continue to give them impetus. It was important before the pandemic and it continues to be even more important during the pandemic, because we must get out of it without having retreated into the struggle to advance effective equality between men and women. For socialists this is vital. Today, this initiative presented by the EH Bildu group raises the issue of disconformity because it has changed the organizational dependence of Emakunde-Vasco Institute for Women, which until now depended directly on Lehendakaritza and has been integrated there since its creation in 1988, and because it has been integrated into the current legislature within the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy. This is because they believe that such a change can lead to a deterioration of equality policies. They have also expressed their concern from feminist movements about this change, but my parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, are convinced of the courage and importance this Basque Government attaches to the need to give greater impetus to policies and to put more resources at the service of the challenge of equality between men and women. The Basque Socialists would never have agreed anything that we considered to be negative in the fight for the defence of equality between men and women, because their defense goes in our own DNA. And so it is clearly reflected in the government agreement for this legislature, signed between the Basque Nationalist group and the Socialist group, where it is pointed out that they are a priority of this government, which configures the policies of equality with the relevance and the protagonistism that grants to be a departmental area from which the equality between women and men is promoted, for the whole autonomous community, with the support of the autonomous body Emakunde-Instituto Vasco de la Mujer. This agreement seeks to shape equality as a central issue, in order to strengthen political support from the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy and to increase its visibility, increasing the means necessary for this, to assume greater commitments and challenges from the cross-cutting nature of equality policies. And this cross-cutting of equality policies can be guaranteed from a sectoral department. The creation of equality ministries is precisely the line of work that countries in our European environment or other autonomous communities in our country are carrying out, either exclusively or in conjunction with other areas. And we have followed the same path. I am surprised, Mrs González, that you have made the speech you have made here today and have not stopped to think twice that in the Government of Spain, of which you are also a member, there is a specific Ministry of Equality, which is carried by a colleague of yours, Mrs Irene Montero. So I'm surprised you made that speech. Because it seems that it would not have to exist that Ministry of Equality, but it would have to be an area that belonged to the Presidency, as we have heard in his speech. And that's not the case. I don't think it has to be like this. On the other hand, it is clear that, in accordance with article 8c of Act No. 7/1981 of 30 June 1981, the power to create, extinguish departments or reorganize the composition of the various departments rests with the lehendakari. It is clear that Emakunde-Vasco Institute for Women, an autonomous body, will continue to perform the same functions as it has been performing so far. Moreover, in a question recently answered to your group, EH Bildu, it has been indicated that this autonomous body will continue to have the same budget as it had been counting on. It won't have reduced its capacity. The lehendakari will continue to chair its Board of Directors. And the functions of Emakunde are clearly defined in Law 2/1988. And nothing's gonna change from that. He will continue to perform the same functions exactly the same. In addition, it will continue to lead the Inter-Agency Commission for the Equality of Women and Men. The functions of the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy are determined by the structure decree defining the composition and functions of the department. This organizational change will continue with the centrality of equality policies in our autonomous community, incorporating, together with Emakunde, the Department of Equality, which will help to strengthen the coordination of equality policies and the drive for cross-cutting in all government actions. And that is increasing the commitment to equality from the Basque Government. In no case will it reduce if, quite the contrary, what it will do is add up. But because of the cross-cutting nature of equality policies, it will not be the only department that will act in that direction. Yesterday, in the Committee on Labour and Employment, we were able to listen to Vice-Lehendakari and Counsellor for Labour and Employment, Idoia Mendia, who, in setting out the lines of action of her department, pointed out that among the axes of action that will guide the strengthening of our social protection system, the design of all employment plans and the new model of the Basque employment system, will be full equality for men and women, young and old, with equal opportunities and rights, because equality is a commitment of this Government. He highlighted the department's willingness to combat discrimination of all kinds that can be given in access to quality employment, given that existing inequalities occur for different reasons and criteria. E indicated that this Government has an unequivocal commitment to that full equality of women. Its programme of action is traversed in all its policies by this vector and that commitment is an integral vision of the entire department as well. And he said, out of conviction but also out of obligation – because if we talk about employment, we have to talk about women's right to the development of a full professional life – that they should be provided with decent wages. He also said that the Special Plan of the Labour Inspectorate against Fraud in Recruitment would be continued, in order to ensure the correct completion of working hours and to pursue fraud in terms of temporality and partiality. This must also be complemented by a specific inspection campaign to eliminate labour discrimination between men and women in Basque companies, which will be complemented by verification, through the Inspection, that all companies with more than 50 workers have equality plans. And it could not be otherwise, because the government agreement states that equality is one of the axes of action of this government. And it is committed to the following commitments: the eradication of macho violence and the establishment of a society free of violence against women in all its manifestations. And within it, that commitment is already made to speed up the adoption of the new Equality Act, which expressly regulates prevention in the fight against fraud. A single window is set up for the care and protection of victims of gender-based violence, which will allow for the adoption of customized action programmes. It establishes a commitment to the wage gap, another commitment to empowerment, education and value change. It also includes a commitment to equality, which also involves combating discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. And each commitment includes concrete measures. I've mentioned a few, but it collects a lot more. The Councillor for Equality, Justice and Social Policy asked for confidence. But the commitment within this government agreement is firm, it is clearly firm. That is why I firmly believe that this change in the structure of the Government in this legislature, far from weakening the fight against equality, is going to strengthen it. Because it is vital that we do not go back on something so important – because we are talking about discrimination that affects half the population, women – but on the contrary, that we become stronger. That is why the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group did not want to table an amendment to the whole, because we believe that far from subtracting, as I said, the current structure, what it is going to do is add. And I am, of course, grateful to Mrs Etxebarrieta for having debated this initiative on the importance of the fight for equality when starting this parliamentary term in this Parliament. I'm sure we'll have opportunities to reach agreements in this legislature, I'm sure. And that too will help to move forward in this direction and will benefit all citizens. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u92	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u93	Thank you, ma'am. The President, the chief physician, the congressman, all good afternoons. Mrs Gonzalez, my mistress was also called Teresa and she was also a baserritarra, my breasts were also baserritarras, Justa and Felisa, and my biramamas were also baserritarras. Believe me, this is a matter of concern to us and of concern to us. As an organization fosters by the policy of equality, the work done during these years has certainly been essential. In our country, the population of equality has enabled them to advance, and to have these politics indirect. The work done is incontestable, as may be observed in the final evaluation of the law of equality. And that's why I want to take advantage of my involvement in the work of all the people who've integrated the fertility of my gratitude and completed it. I've spent the last eight years in the defense of the eucalyptics and the eucalyptics that have been designed and developed. I still remember the whole assembly of my first discussions of equality with the police. It was March 2013. The Euscal village was just as it was from the hands of the Collectors, a proposition introduced by Mrs. Gold, and the public policy required for the equality of women and men from a presidential vice-regation in the presidency of the presidency of the President, in order to guarantee the indirectness of those policies in every group of you. Horretan moment, nik Emakunderen defends sutsua egin nuen, drinking wool and drinking kokapena defenduz. It's an orduan not a bat, a gauza, a gaurko egun honetan, a brererets si dezakedana. Orduan esaten nuen "are public policies for the equality of women and men not managed and developed within the Presidency of the Basque Government? If the lehendakari himself is the president of the Board of Directors." And to this day, with a new location of Emakunde, within another department, I can continue to make the same statement, and it is that the lehendakari Urkullu himself is, will be, president of the Board of Directors of Emakunde. In February 2020, just eight months ago, Mrs Etxebarrieta, along with other members of Euskal Herria Bildu, signed an opinion article entitled What is not yes, is no The proposal was seven years ago a presidency, eight months ago, the section below the Presidentship. This I must say, that although the final decision to move the Election was not agreeable to some of the feminist motions, motives, and opposite political parties, yet we must all be honest, and confess that the position of the results has not always been agreeable to some people. To-day you have defended a few of them, but now you have kept them from carrying out their proposals to move until very soon. And this is a reality. And for eight years this legislature has been able to see it. And yet, he and I have been precursors in the world by the same credence and by the same love of equality that has been developed for the last few years. Therefore, despite the great challenges still outstanding, there is no denying the important impetus that has taken place in the field of equality throughout all these years in our country. And so, from recognition to the work done, we can say that we have solid, well-established foundations that today allow us to be in a different context. Bilakaera beat aurrean vuude. These are the steps forward that Mrs Gonzalez commented. The new organization of equality policies for women and men within the Basque Government, with a Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy and Emakunde attached to it, responds to an organizational change of the Government, which at no time represents a change in the centrality that has maintained equality policies in our country. This new approach takes place in a context marked by the crisis we face, the lehendakari himself explained it in the inquiry on 2 October. Addressing the crisis and maximizing its positive impact on equality requires intensifying cross-cutting and working together within the Government, with other institutions and social actors. By reorganizing the structure, the struggle against dissecration is intended to strengthen itself, and to give a new impulse to advance to a more equal and just society, which will place it in the centre of life, and give to women the same opportunity of developing their own plans of life. Consistent to the Election, Equality, Justice, and Polytic Society, makes the intersecration of the struggle for equality, of the genus division, and of the violence against woman. The new section encourages the indirect view of all public policies of human rights, and places the genus equality in the first line. It's not connected, it sets the policy of all departments. The sum of all these areas is union, all are strengthened, and the genus view is strengthened in all. For these reasons, the Government has taken the step of setting up a department with competence for equality and of preserving, at the same time, Emakunde's action as an autonomous body linked to Lehendakaritza, also connecting both instruments. This is an organizational change, as I said, not a structural change. Emakunde continues to maintain its autonomy, but adds to the task a new department, to which it will be linked, seeking to generate the opportunity to work together on key issues such as co-responsible reconciliation, care, co-education or the fight against violence against women. These synergies provide an opportunity to combat situations of multiple discrimination faced by women. We call it feminist movements and opinions expressed by several professional societies and professionals in connection with the Enthusian equality, the Justice and the Police Department of Society. We understand, even if we do not agree, the doubts which men have expressed about the necessity of the sight and indirectness of women and men's equality. But the government has a mind to continue on this subject, before us to give severe challenges a proper answer. Placing action for equality in a department cannot mean taking a step backwards in the policy of equality of women and men, let alone respond to the will of this and any other Basque government. It would be like throwing stones at our own roof after years of effort and firm bet for an egalitarian society in Euskadi. It doesn't make sense. The commitments that this Basque Government continues to make with regard to equality policies are very important, and they have no doubt that it will continue to work towards their achievement. I have very little time, and I am sure that the Sailburu Artolazabal will be able to explain all its objectives as soon as it appears in committee. There are some coordators or operators, or well, who have joined the Basque Country this day, and together a few statements or requests from Podemos. And we have to say with all due respect that we don't agree. We don't agree, because for this government, the President of the Urals, the Eucullus, the Eunciers of the United States have a great deal of talk about public policy. And some expressions seem unfair to us. Even in the eucalyptics of equality, if it has been a pioneer and a model for the last 40 years, it has been the chief chief of the most important institutions of the Euccan Party, and it has been thanks to the fine institutions which have been introduced in these institutions. Targets are shared, I'm sure, but management patterns differ. We have different views about it, but social policies will continue to work for the eucaidian Eukal Party and the Jelt Party. And on the way, everyone's work will be absolutely necessary. It has been asserted that the attaching of justice and the Department of Police of Society to a second degree of equality, and so on, cannot be shared by such expressions. Locate Emakunde in a department along with the areas of Justice and Social Services does not imply any risk of applying an assistanceist perspective to this policy by bringing us back to the past. It is impossible to make such declarations knowing decades of evolution of social intervention in Euskadi until the consolidation of a Basque system of universal social services, of public responsibility, based on a community model and recognizing as a subjective right access to a wide range of services and services. We could talk about Beijing, this new location is also contemplated in Beijing's H1 strategic objective. We understand that the centrality of public politics is guaranteed by maintaining the President in the presidency of the Council. So, and I'll end up, Mrs. President, this president, this group of y'alls, and Eubertarians, have a strong commitment to continue working on the rules of equality, to improve women's quality and to give them steps to more or less fair society. I have no more time, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Housemaid, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u95	Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Clearly, we don't unite. And I think we shall have a first clear example on Monday, two weeks from here, in the event of the new head of the equality of departments, which will not make a match for the Committee of Equality and Human Rights. If we start from this point of view, it is plain that within all these groups or piles of works the priority which is given to them is given. We have not doubted the policy of equality at any moment, and I should like to find out, Mrs. Arrivalga, in these two proposals of the Basque People you mentioned, what a change of place the Rate would have in common. For what was proposed is precisely what would take care of the political constitution of a director or of the President. Then, if I'm not mistaken, the Empire would remain at the President's. But, well, I'd like to be able to explain the change in those two documents you mentioned. And, for us, the problem is not that a certain group of companies or farmings which are related to equality is precisely what we have often missed; and it would be a fortunate thing if it was not the earl which we put in the first paragraph, and the first paragraph that we put together, and that so many groups have put together, mix with other subjects. And indeed, when we place ourselves together with the social police and the justice, it will cause us to imagine them in a particular direction, and to centralize them in that particular direction, the majority of the labour and industry of this work. And it's been asked for confidence. But in this particular measure, I think it is time to ask for certain measures and specific politics, more than the moment to ask for confidence. And, indeed, I believe that this uneasiness, which so many groups suggest, is highly justified, and that we have attempted to bring it here with so many interventions. In fact, I think we all agree on one thing, and Mrs Sánchez said: "It's very important." And I agree with you. Here it is important to make discussions about the population of equality, to place equality in the centrality of public policies, to place it in the centrality of debate. But, as I said at first, it's raining. It's raining hard. He's doing it very hard. And we heard where the attacks came from. We have heard from whence the words are contrary to the principle of equality. Then you don't only need a hand to reach that umbrella. We need the hands of all who are here, and also the feminine operating agency outside, the most different institutions. We're not talking about all those names we're talking about again. But we need the hands of all of them. And I believe, not that the discussion of the motion which we have brought here today, not this proposition of the EH gathering, but that this resolution leads us very far from coming to this umbrella. Trust is restored, and we'll work for it. And as Mrs. Sánchez said, it won't be the first and last time we're going to discuss such matters, but once more we'll see two attitudes here in the time of the vote. And I believe, by remarking the importance of placing these concrete measures and specific politics in the middle of this shower of rain, that we think it will not be a good decision to serve as the President of the Empire, and to connect them with other sactorial matters. And unfortunately, you've decided to go on with it. I hope he's wrong, but we're not alone. And I repeat, it rains hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. 'Essalka Populara-Ciudadnos mustn't speak.' Miss team, even Mrs Martínez mustn't speak. Together, Podemos, Mrs. González, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u97	Yeah. Okay, briefly, Mrs. Sanchez. Yeah, we do know there's a Ministry. We know we have a partner at the head of that Ministry. And, in fact, if you ask us, because we would surely bet on Euskadi for having his own advice, with the rank he has in the state. He said equality is one of the pillars of the government program. We, reading the government programme, repeat to you what I have told you before, that we do not see, for example, that the issue of the wage gap is covered in the employment section. It is that the wage gap would be one of the points that should be linked to employment. Far from subtracting, it's adding, it's adding. Let's see, we've got four fulls. Equality issues have emerged in the four plenary sessions. We haven't added anything. I don't think we've added anything. And the same thing if I put on my citizen glasses, I think sometimes we subtract. We're all left, huh? Because not reaching agreements on something that is our responsibility and that concerns all of us, it seems to me to be missing, of course. But that's not why we're going to try to stop adding up. That's not why we're going to stop bringing up the themes over and over again. Gai honekin zurekin nator, Arrizabalaga andrea, konpromiso sobre ere badugula isatean. Guk was in the bathroom. Mrs Arrizabalaga said that it was an organizational change, not a structural change. It is that I see it on the contrary; it is that it seems to me more a structural change than organizational, but good. From our group we are ready to reach agreements, to sit down and talk about this subject, and I would not like to see any proposals coming from the left-wing bench being closed in a band. And, in fact, I thank him for the good disposition – because it is true that I find good disposition – but then we do not get to add and if we do not add, we subtract, especially in the face of citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Basque Socialist, Mrs Sánchez has a word to say?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u99	Yes, I have indicated that, of course, it was a commitment made in the government agreement that these equality policies will be at the heart of all the policies carried out by this Basque Government. And, Mrs Etxebarrieta, a Ministry of Equality can be created, but there can also be a ministry along with other policies, with other departments; but that will never – nor is it necessary to do so, wherever it is located – prevent coordination with other departments, precisely because of the cross-cutting nature implicit in all these equality policies. I have spoken to him before – to give him an example and also because they have come to appear here – about the policies that the Department of Labour and Employment is going to develop, and he said: "It is that I do not see him well located with social and justice policies." What if he was, for example, getting into work and employment? Is Equality brought together? Would it not also have to coordinate exactly the same, even if it were located there, with other departments because of its cross-cutting nature, and would it not mean that only equality will be confined to the area of employment? That is not the case, you fit it where you fit it and with which you fit it, that transversality is going to have to continue to produce always, because it has to be central and radiate to all government policies. You can bring it together with Education, with Work, with Employment, with whatever you want, but all that transversality is going to have to continue, so don't tell me that as it has been put there is that it is going to stick only to an assistanceist character, because it's not and it's not going to be done that way, because it doesn't usually happen that way. I also now remember, for example, that in the ninth parliamentary term I opposed the disappearance of the Directorate for Gender Violence and the disappearance of the single window. Those of you who were also with me in that ninth legislature, you remember that I was very machacona because we didn't like that single window having disappeared and that it was very positive for the victims, etc. And I am very pleased that now, in this government agreement, there is this commitment to create this unique window to promote and facilitate that personalized and unified attention to the victims of gender-based violence, which was also a commitment that the socialists were also carrying out within our electoral agenda. It's just that I think it benefits the victims, and that's an example that they're things that are added, that are added, and they're policies that, from this Equality Department – get together with whoever you want to put it together – are going to take place throughout this whole legislature. And I don't care whether he's alone or accompanied by other departments, his obligation is to carry out all those policies and coordinate them with everything. And, Mrs González, as far as the pay gap is concerned, you say that you do not understand why you are in the employment field. It's just not like that. It is that the plan to combat the wage gap is interdepartmental and is interdepartmental since it was created, not right now because it appears like this, it is that from the beginning, if you read it, it has an interdepartmental character. Obviously, it may affect areas of work, but it does affect other areas of the Government itself, and in this plan to combat the wage gap, all actions relating to the wage gap are shared by the various departments of the Government. So don't tell me you don't understand why you're exclusively in Employment, because you're not. It has not been so since the beginning nor is it so, it affects many departments and everything fits into that plan of struggle in an interdepartmental way. So, that is why we are open to dialogue and agreement, but of course, when I am not convinced of one thing, I do not have to reach an agreement per se. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u100	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u101	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mrs. Housekeeper, the department has made the appearance on two committees, but this table, this House of Parliament, has decided to unite. If there is a delegation of you at that table, he can explain to you the reasons why this agreement has been made. Well, the voters' assembly are represented by all political parties. So the representative of your team will be able to explain to you what was the cause of it. Then the president of the two committees joined us, and the agenda, and the U.P.C. board already occupied that space, p or zenomesal. And again, that they are not made up of the Institutions about them. I only meant to say that you probably didn't understand here today that you had that position, that position, that position of the Empire, had been defended. But until some time ago, the proposals of the Combats have been other, whether under the Presidity or not, but the proposition has been made to move. It was a different arrangement. I've been arguing that for the past eight years. Yeah. To arrange it with another form, including presidence, but in another place, in another form, and in another name. That's the way it is, and there are session records. I've got a copy here, too. I'll pass it to you. That's right. You defended him today to keep him as we knew him. But the Basque Country hasn't done that in the past few years, that's all I said. Gero, you bastard, we can. Mrs González speaks of good will, which I thank you for. But it cannot be that that good disposition comes depending on what opposition we are in. Because the Canary Institute for Equality has been moved from presidency to the new Council for Social Rights, Equality, Diversity and Youth, managed by Podemos. Do you approve of that change? I'd like to know, because we're in the same weaver. Then, the disposition I thank you for, but in every way. Mrs Garrido, it is indeed necessary to reinvigorate the reform of the Equality Act. And this legislature will come true. I'm convinced. And finally, the commander of the Artola generouss has asked for a choice for feminist movement, the whole society. And the Euncierate patriot also demands that choice, so does the opposition teams. The object of the new principle of equality is to enable us to strengthen policy for the equality of women and men by increasing the co-ordination of all the policy of equality, and to promote indirectity in all the actions of the government. The deal's coming, I'm sure. Bath well bitartean ez dago atzera pasorik. It's gonna be a mess of the Honek Gobernu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. The discussion is over. And we'll put it in the vote for Mrs. Legrand's first text. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 74; in favour 26; on the contrary, 48; abstaining, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u103	So, not allowed original text. Next, we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudads. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 74; in favour 6; in the contrary, 67; abstaining, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u104	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. The seventh point on the theme list: "Motion, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, the popularo-Ciudadans, a member of the Basque courts. Discipline and final resolution. It's your call, Mr. Gordillo, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. And good afternoon again to your lordships. The point that follows comes from an inquiry that our group made last week to the councilwoman responsible for the area of justice of the Basque Government, here also present – thank you very much – regarding the need that we see, and that is pressing, to strengthen and, above all, to empower – as is now said – the courts. Because we talked about it the other day – despite the fact that we certainly had some dissenting opinion about the diagnosis – what is true is that the courts in general in Spain and in the Basque Country – there is no exception here – always have a situation of peaks in addition to saturation, and it is important to have the mechanisms to give a sensible, reasonable and timely response to people, institutions and companies. Because this is the only way to achieve an agile, adequate administration of justice for a rule of law and, above all, for a social economy to succeed. In this regard, after a very interesting debate in which – I say this and will reiterate this – we extend our hand to the Government and to the groups that support this Government, after that debate – as I say – constructive in my opinion, we put forward a motion which had three fundamental points. One of them concerns the digital file: that we finally have a genuine digital file. The second point was that of teleworking, but including, above all, also the possibility of conducting telematic trials. And then, the third, very important point, which has already been discussed in the full past, is that of the interconnection of the different digital electronic systems that exist in Spain, which already know that we have about 10 systems, and that the truth is that there is a significant lack of connection between them. The legal professionals in this House know that, someone has sent it to me in a slightly more or less private way. But those who are dedicated to law know that this is an outstanding subject that we have, not only in Euskadi, but in the whole of what is Spain. We have up to 10 different systems. The ministry finally made one. Euskadi moved forward and began much back in time to invest in the digitization and modernization of the courts. And then, in the national case, a system was created that, in the end, the truth is that only the Autonomous Community of Galicia assumed it entirely, if I don't remember correctly. And the truth is, of course, the lawyer you practice in Euskadi needs to be familiar with one system, the other... That is why we saw that the third point of interconnection was important. In summary and in summary, ladies and gentlemen – to shorten this debate and this exhibition – an integral digitisation. Because, frankly, I believe that the Government agrees that the important thing of an advanced society, and one of the fundamental things that, in my opinion, a government has to do and the public authorities have to facilitate, is an administrative structure and an administration that is friendly to the citizen, that fosters the so-called one-stop shop; and, above all, that it alleviates problems and that it does not create new problems, and that it serves to carry out, of course, all the administrative transactions that are necessary. Good. In addition, we asked in the original initiative that carries my signature, two things that seemed important to me, very important, which were an implementation schedule that, moreover, I said, was realistic, with elements and so on, with milestones of how the implementation is evolving; and an economic memory. After the presentation of this initiative, I have to thank those responsible for the justice of the two groups that support the Government, Laura Pérez Borinaga and María Jesús San José, the former councillor, with competence from the Basque Socialist Party. We've had a series of conversations, they've been productive. And in the end, we have agreed on the real need to address this need – which we understand is shared – that the Euskadi courts can have. That is why we have agreed a compromise amendment with the two groups that support the Government. We've all given in, obviously. That is what happens in the amendments. We have yielded, but we have retained the essential points that we understood in our group that were fundamental. Not just commitment. It is already on the government programme that we have, specifically on page 89, commitments 97 and 98, which speak precisely of this issue concerning the digitisation and modernisation of justice. What we were asking for, above all, and what really interests us is that this should come forward, that in the next situation there should be a procedural peak because there is a situation of partial confinement – hopefully not – but if there is a restriction on mobility, if there is a difficulty, if there is anything, if it turns out that there is a worker who has to confine himself at home because, precisely, he has given positive or has been close to someone who has been able to give – in this House we are living it in these days – that he has the facility to be able to work. In short, that in the next crisis situation – a word that I imagine the government does not like – a delicate situation that catches us with the duties done. That's what we want. That is why this is an example of a hand to the Government, which already mentioned our group president in Mr Lehendakari's investiture speech here, and this is an example. We are going to be there with these kinds of proposals that are really useful for society and, above all, for the courts, which is something that goes unnoticed, but it is essential to have them well equipped so that they can solve social problems. We have therefore reached an agreement which, in our view, brings together the main points, those three that we mentioned earlier: digital file, teleworking and telematic trials and, above all, interconnection, interconnectivity between systems. We have changed the issue of the timetable to a budgetary commitment, and economic memory to a budgetary commitment and a delivery to this Parliament of the plan as soon as possible. Counselor, if you want I help you; when you can but as soon as possible. And besides, I'm serious about throwing you a cable if you want. And we look forward to the plan being presented to us. There are two plans which, in the end, end up being mentioned in the proposal. All right, they were two elements that came on the Government's agenda. We have been generous in that regard and have included them as well, the Strategic Justice Plan – which I imagine will then tell us who is responsible for one of the parties supporting the government – and the Digital Justice Plan. Ladies and gentlemen, a very brief general particular reflection on the subject of the adoption of laws, the adoption of plans. This morning I was talking about a common vice that exists in advanced democratic societies and in political structures, and that has much to do with, when there is a particular social problem, with the announcement of a law, the announcement of a plan, which then remains there. One good day the law is announced in a bowl and dish, or the plan is announced and then, whatever it is, it stays in the middle, it is left without doing, forgets, passes the media pressure. The truth is that being a government is a complicated thing, the truth is a complicated thing; there are many problems that are emerging, situations that are not expected, but there are many issues that remain there in the tinker. In a country like Spain there are, at present, 100,000 laws, between laws and regulations, approximately 100.00. Do you think it's much or little? Look, in Germany, for us to get an idea, more population, an equally complex country in terms of its territorial structure, there are 10,000. Let's compare 100,000 and 10,000. Perhaps what we have to think about in this House is also how to alleviate the legal system a little bit to make it really easier, especially for the judges who then have to apply it. The same can happen with plans. And let's make a plan, another plan... We make a plan, we agree, great. It's in the press. The party press officer is happy because he's already been in the press, because such... Great. And then we forgot. And this is what needs to be avoided. That's why we really believe that we have to do it and we have to do it now. The plans must have – and you know this, ladies and gentlemen – clear and achievable objectives, a strategy, a set of actions, an allocation of economic resources – which was what we were concerned about, and that is what we agreed with the two groups supporting the Government and I understand that the Government was also in agreement with this situation – and then, very important, a system of indicators to assess the effective implementation of these plans, of these actions and of these actions. I really hope and trust that these plans for modernisation that have been announced, which will be discussed with us, and I understand that the adviser – who has already asked for their appearance – will do so in the near future, as has been said before, will translate into the measures that we have agreed, because they are really necessary. The lawyers, especially lawyers in this House and others who have approached us lately know it, know it. The important thing, and I am finishing, Madam President, is to ensure that citizens, businesses and institutions have an agile, adequate, effective and efficient justice service, which is two different things. It is known, effectiveness is to achieve the result and efficiency is to do it in the best possible way. This is key to an advanced democratic society, in the welfare state as well. The important thing is the content, not so much the wrapper. The wrapper, great, be a plan, a law, okay. But the important thing, indeed, ladies and gentlemen, is the content. And the important thing, I insist, is that in the next situation – I don't want to say crisis – in the next complex situation that our society is experiencing, with procedural peaks, technically, what we would like and what I think is necessary – and in this we are sure that the government agrees – is that this situation catches us up with the duties done. And that is why we have agreed on this amendment, and that is why we will support it. And that's why we're also going to be vigilant. It's not a blank check, as we can all understand. Let's be vigilant. But it is an example of helping the Government to make useful policy that reverses to the benefit of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u106	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, together, Mrs. Lover, who represents the Podemos-IU team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u107	Thank you, ma'am. In the first place, I would like to express the surprise of our party, the terrible one, with the first point of its proposal, the special inspection of justice, and the impossibility of sharing, now, in the last few minutes, the orator has expressed himself in the same way, because we do not understand what the fundamental plan answers. When in the first part of the proposition the receiver of justice is said to be a function of FIXME as a service, we do not understand why in these three columns, when the recipients of justice are identified, we do not understand why they are made; the people, the corporations, and the institutions. We do not understand what he answers-three pillars, three columns, as if they were extraordinary in the presence of justice, we do not understand. And it makes it give you a kind of alarm to do a thing like that. Therefore, for this surprise, this alarm, we do not see at first what is proposed with good eyes. Second, that's right, we agree with the need to digitalize the Justice Administration. But this necessity, even if we surrender it, is placed in another larger proportion of need, and we believe that it cannot be abandoned. For this reason, I say, we have referred to this whole correction for the sake of that which I have said before. For we believe that there is need of a more complete view to prevent the extraordinary affairs of our justice at the present day of Euscadin. And in this sense it would be the spirit of our correction to express and take a judicial system of compromises, by which a judicial system of euscals, by which the fundamental right of judicial protection would be established, and this would be a public service which would obtain justice, that all men may enjoy and use it in the same manner. And according to this spirit, modernization and digitalization are not the only things that in Esscal or in the Essinomia Esscal Justice requires. In this regard, we have spread our proposition on five different axiss, which would have been ours. On the one hand, to take the road to the redemption of justice, because we think it's better to ensure one's life, to look at one's attention and society, and not so much damage to one another. Besides, this is the Basque Government engaged in 2016 which has not yet been fulfilled. And this would also be the manner in which the 29/2012 of the European Union, concerning the victims and the redeeming justice of the European Union, would be to fulfil what it says. Two. Another axis, which is important to us, when we speak of the euskal system of justice, would also include transition to the model of feminist justice, which would involve in the judicial system an intermediational genus and point of view. Even in that Illust, we'd ask the State to keep the budget agreement with Podemos, and in that case we'd ask the government to make a necessary training plan on sexual equality and establish it for all the employees of the Justice Administration. We would also ask another proposal concerning the law of 144/2017 against female violence, which was admitted in the precedent law, to complete it. Three. Another thing we see of necessity is the possibility of the free will of justice. In order to guarantee a true right to justice, it is necessary to guarantee a free justice. And therefore we also demand the Government in our own direction, the Essic Government, to aid in co-operate with all the administrations which have jurisdiction in it, in order to assure us of it truly. Four. Another axis, digitalization, but with various shades. In our opinion, as the future of the Justice Administration is the case with all public ETABIL administrations, it is, in order to digital INFINA, to establish the use of telepathic communications, and the choice of telework. The measures proposed in the motion of the Proposor proceed from this point of view, and we agree with this that when it is said that to be effective and quality justice, it is necessary to make a plan for the digitalization of a process. Nevertheless, with respect to modernization and digitalization, we believe that other measures ought to be taken, that not all should really be able to arrive at justice. I mean, concretely, and in our repentance: a digital alphabetization should be pushed together with the accuracy of digitalization, and also special precautions to protect personal data should be taken. And five, the last. In our repentance we propose something else: It's a strategy of euphora to improve justice. In order to fill all these measures, and others, we ask the Euktimes to pay attention to the structure of the courts and services, and to evaluate and degnostize the constructions of the courts and services, to do a eucatic strategy to improve justice. If this strategy wants to improve our justice system, then the strategy should be made with the intervention of people who form the system of justice. The judicial associations, representatives of the workers of the Justice Administration, the institutions which defend the rights of the victims, and which have confessed experience in the prosecution and defence of human rights... We must do it from all of them in order to be able to answer this strategy, so that justice can be improved in the Euskadin. And as we also consider that we are dealing with an issue that is important, we have also thought that it is important to set deadlines. That is why we set a six-month deadline – which we believe is objective – to meet this objective that we have set out and that I have dissected into five different parts. In this respect, we included it in paragraph 5 of our amendment, and we also urged the Basque Government, together with this strategy, to present to the Basque Parliament a specific and detailed list of the actions to be taken to improve the courts and services in the administration of justice in the Basque Country, as well as the evaluation indicators to measure the impact of these improvements. Two. A list of mechanisms with which citizens will be able to carry out a continuous evaluation of the implementation of the strategy and its degree of satisfaction with it. Three. An economic memory detailing the budget of these actions. And four. A realistic timeline or timeline detailing the milestone dates of this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u109	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Good afternoon, everyone. I listened with great interest to the discussion of the other day between Gordillo and Artolazaba. Then there was a discussion, and today it ended with an agreement. But then he argued whether justice is now in the state of collapse or not. I want to give an objective data. Jurymetry according to the analytical tool of justice: "Un jujudo de Bilbao del contenciso subtivo octivo, I will give the number, not stigmatizing, E el que mas procedimitos titæ pendentes en todo el Estodo." This is an objective data, and it reminds me, at least, that we are faced with a serious problem, collapse, saturation, or at least at least. This situation is given in several parts in the Dutch district, in the civil or penal area, but I want to continue with this example of the matter of administration, because COVID19's pandemics have well explained the influence of justice. As you know, I'll tell you what else, in the Basque Country, 15,000 men of punishment have spread through the law of Mozal for breaking confessions, for disobedience to authority. As you know, the jurists have been strongly accused of doing this dangerous emancipating interpretation, and the only means which the injured persons who received those fines have of resisting or fighting those fines is to offer an appeal to the courts of the courts of affairs. And my question is: how can a judicial court, with all its pledges of protection, attain to such tribunals, if they are entirely ruined? We are facing a serious and chronic problem, the modification of the Justice Administration, because it is an absolute eternal challenge. All the problems of this old-fashioned justice are now displayed and accelerated by the pandemonies. These days I was talking to workers from the Justice Administration to get interested in this issue. And one of these workers gave me a really graphic image – which I want to share with all of you – of the problems you were facing. She told me that the offices of the Prosecutor's Office where she is destined are like warehouses of Post Offices, where paper is piled up, dosieres, folders that are piled up there. And why? Because in this case, prosecutors – but it is also extended to lawyers and other officials of the Administration of Justice – are unable to read a file on screen. And why do they have this attitude? Well, surely it will be because of lack of digital tools, computer tools, yes; surely it will be because of lack of training, of training as well. But I think it goes beyond that, and we are really facing a problem of lack of digital culture in the Justice Administration. The challenge of digitisation may not be equal to other sectors that may be more dynamic or more agile, but it does present itself in justice as an endemic problem. And five years after the entry into force of the mandatory electronic communications in the Administration of Justice – which was introduced by reform of Organic Law 7/2015 – five years later, we can see that this has failed. Everything is done on paper, everything is made face-to-face, these forecasts are not fulfilled. And there is more, because I was told that different professionals and users are still presenting paper documentation, which leads to staff serving the Justice Administration wasting a lot of time having to scan it. These workers – and they are his words because I think they express better than myself what the problem they live in – tell me that "JustiziaBAT is an absolutely archaic computer application, the entire computer system is obsolete, we are in line with any other autonomous community, the Basque Government is making cuts So I think the formatization of the systems of justice is a failure. Economy, technology, and organizational resources are invested, yes, but systems, invisibility, and disconnection still remain. The preparation for officials, professionals, and for users is very poor. And the pandemic, as I say, has left all this still more apparent. I listened with great interest to the various measures which Artola generouss had enumerated on the previous day, so many discinox measures, improvised measures, which seemed to me to be improvised, and which did not solve all the questions of the administration. And in front of that, the two teams that support the government, together with the PP-Ciudados, have already received a correction that they will bring a strategic plannal. All right, I agree to bring in a strategic plan, we'll take care of it. We're gonna be creative. And we'll be on our guard to see what measures are brought into that strategic plan. But we had another problem, and we mentioned it also, an important distinction in our correction: Where is one of these strategic plans going to lead us? And we were saying it out loud. If modernization is sought for efficiency, if we seek to restore our people from justice, this strategic plan must appeal to a judicial power. Who will deny the principle of natural judgment? To the judge here, who knows the social condition of the local county, the judge who is witness to the social situation? Who will refuse the judge who can serve him? So we came with a ambitious purpose, this judicial power of euphora, because one of the strategic plans must lead us somewhere. This plan must clearly show what course it will take, what direction we're going to take, whether we're going to maintain the course of our course in our current parameters, or whether we'll be able to limit the administration of the Justice Administration now. Whether at present we shall tend to preserve, in some degree, these few, or to modify a strategic plan of ours, which properly reforms justice, which restores this people from justice, with efficacy and security, but in some measure builds a judicial power. And I was very concerned about agreeing to it in one of Mr. Gordillo's half-ways, porque. A few words to Mr Gordillo's position, first of all. You were still talking to us about officers and agents in the interpellation. I thought it was a lapsus linguae But, in any case, you too showed too much concern, Mr Gordillo, about the "why the competition for justice?". He wondered what the benefits of such a competition were. It linked competition to overlaps, duplications, cost overruns. He even ran into some kind of non-petita excuse. And today, well, PNV has somehow received you from PNV, PSOE, to sign with you this half-way by the parties that promote the government. And I repeat, I am very sorry for it, I do not know how it puts us in it: in a point of doubting competition, or in the way of a judicial power of eupscal. That was what I was asking for, but it was Mr. Urkullu's demand that many times in 2015. I really don't know where that proclamation, inspiration, that purpose has stopped. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u110	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Basque Socialists, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. President, head of the Vence Precinct, members of the legislature, all good afternoons. Today, on the tenth anniversary of his death, I would like to remind Txema Fínez, Deputy Councillor of Justice in the 9th Legislature, who gave an important impetus to the modernization of the Administration of Justice in Euskadi, and send his family a loving and affectionate greeting. The pandemic has shown us many things; indeed, most of them are painful. But those of us who take advantage of any opportunity to improve, have also served us to detect shortcomings in our systems and seek solutions. Since the pandemic began every Friday, we held videoconference meetings with the Minister of Justice and his team, the rest of the communities with transferred competences in the field of justice, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Office of the Attorney-General and the Council of Law. And these meetings served not only to establish common and coordinated measures for the fight against the pandemic in the field of justice, but also to know the weaknesses and strengths of the rest and the shortcomings of all. The modernizing momentum that justice has had in the pandemic, with the Government of the State at the forefront, I would dare to say that it is historic and has three pillars. The Royal Decree-Law 16/2020 of 28 April, whose purpose, in addition to more concrete ones, was to seek an agile exit to the accumulation of procedures suspended by the declaration of state of alarm when the lifting of the suspension occurred, and where, for the pandemic time and the next three months, a modernization that citizens have been able to see in the media: complete telematic judgments and the validity of all video tests, for example. The priority was to safeguard health, and that is why distancing, pre-dates and not to use the robes because they go from one to another. Then there were two more pillars. A Royal Decree-Law 11/2020, 31 March, which provides for the adoption of additional urgent measures in the social and economic fields to deal with COVID-19. Notice, ladies and gentlemen Gordillo and the rest of the ladies and gentlemen, in a real decree dealing with the economy – therefore absolutely new in the world of justice – the additional provision 19a is introduced so that, once the state of alarm has passed and the state of alarm has been lifted, the Council of Ministers will adopt plans for refoulement or shock for the most sensitive areas of justice – social, contentious-administrative, Mr Arzuaga – and mercantile in order to contribute to the goal of a rapid economic recovery after the overcoming of the crisis. There is still a third pillar, which is a law, 3/2020, of 18 September, which was adopted with a broad parliamentary majority and whose objective is to speed up the administration of justice and strengthen hygienic measures in courts and tribunals to prevent judicial collapse in the face of the health crisis. These three pieces are the biggest driving force that has known justice in the past 40 years. And it has been the result of a communion of effort towards a common goal, with the Minister of Justice and his team at the front, the autonomous communities with transferred competences in the field of justice, the Office of the High Prosecutor of the State, the General Council of the Judiciary and the rest of the legal operators. And I agree with you, Mr Gordillo, when you pointed out in your question the importance of an effective and efficient administration of justice. And I have to say in this regard that justice as a public service had not been sufficiently valued for citizenship or political power, which resulted in a forgetfulness of its updating and budget. In the face of other public welfare services, empowerment was needed to put it on the agenda, given its essential service to consolidate a just and democratic society. An effective judicial system has a positive impact on the economy and competitiveness. All these reflections already included in the Bizi Berri plan have also been reflected in the government agreement of my party, the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra, and the Basque Nationalist Party. And, within the commitment of a modern judicial system, there is the axis of action of approving a strategic justice plan that will set the parameters for building a more agile, effective and digitized justice, focused on people, and completing the establishment of the new judicial office. And here's the first point of your motion, Mr. Gordillo. The next commitment of the government agreement is to advance the configuration of a close, agile and modern Justice Administration as a guarantee of quality, encouraging innovation and digitization, and to this end the Basque Government will adopt a digital justice plan with the aim of achieving the comprehensive digitization of courts and tribunals with the orientation put in place to complete the electronic judicial record, develop digital procedures through the electronic judicial headquarters and promote actions through videoconferencing; and closer justice will be strengthened by increasing the material and human resources of peace courts. And finally, the adoption of an action plan for the reactivation of judicial activity to deal with the consequences of COVID-19. And here are your point 2 (a) and (b) of the motion tabled and point 3 which urge the Government, together with the digitisation plan, to present a specific list of actions, economic memory and timetable. And that's exactly what a plan is about. But it is that the Salburu Artolazabal has already told him what he is going to do in this area, pending the presentation of the general lines and the government program, when he is going to do it, which will be throughout the legislature, and with what budget he will count and which will be incorporated into the various budget laws until the full fulfillment of all commitments. And there is also the National Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience of the economy that the Government of the State has presented these days, which is structured around ten tractor policies that will directly affect those productive sectors with the greatest capacity to transform our economic and social fabric. And the fourth tractor policy will promote an administration for the twenty-first century, so that the public administration can act as a driving force for technological change. And the reforms that include this line of work include the modernisation of the justice system. 5 % of the resources will be devoted to this fourth policy. Well, with all these members, I am sure that this legislature will give an impetus to the modernisation of the administration of justice in Basque, which will result in a more effective and efficient public service for Basque citizens. Lastly, he spoke in his motion about the interconnection between the different systems for the management of judicial files which coexisted in Spain. This is a matter already discussed in this House and the Socialists do want to move towards a common system of procedural management – which is not unique, as the Basque People argued on that occasion – which must be based on the interoperability and interconnection of the different applications that already exist today. And to this end, as early as 2011, the Socialists adopted the Law regulating the use of information and communication technologies in the Administration of Justice to define, already in a rule with a legal rank, the minimum requirements of interconnection, interoperability and security necessary to ensure such much-needed electronic processing. We have reached a compromise amendment with the Basque-Citizens, and I therefore thank them for their efforts to bring forward positions, especially in the figure of Mr Gordillo. This is not so much who does or stops doing what, but what we have to propose together to ensure that the fundamental right to effective judicial protection and the best performance of the services of the public service of the Administration of Justice is satisfied. And to achieve that end, I hope that for this legislature we have a lot of work in common and a lot of consensus because they are essential. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u112	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mrs Pérez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, Mr. President, chief of departments and members of the legislature. First of all, Mr Gordillo, I would like to thank you for your initiative on the modernisation of justice because I believe that we are in the midst of a positive debate. It's an indisputable thing. We all share the need to continue to move towards a justice of the twenty-first century that can only be a person-oriented justice, as well as agile, effective and modern justice. We agree on that. I would also like to thank you expressly, at the outset, for your willingness, which you and your group have had both to seek a point of agreement; for the result of that will is the compromise that we have signed together. When there is will, and in this matter has been shown, the agreement is possible. When realistic approaches are made to issues of deep concern and public interest, agreement with the groups that support the Government is possible, so again on behalf of my group we thank him. Mila esker. We want justice to be a public service that society perceives as close and resolute, a service in which citizens trust to solve their problems in a reasonable time. That will be the best contribution we can make to the system itself and to those who need it. We know that slow justice is not justice, among other things, because it does not guarantee something fundamental, which is effective judicial protection. On the basis of these considerations, I think it is fair to say that this Government has taken this matter as a priority. The transformation and modernization of the judicial system is a priority for this department and there is no doubt that work has been done and is being done hard. It was done by those in previous legislatures who have occupied this portfolio and also now the Salburu Artolazabal. We know that by improving everything that can present some deficiency today, society will win and in that task they will find us always. We need modern and effective institutions to respond quickly and adequately to citizens' claims. And in achieving that goal, we don't start from scratch, we have a journey, a path marked by which we continue to travel. Euskadi, its institutions, have been working for years to equip our Justice Administration with tools for its modernization. We were, in its day, pioneers on our platform in Justizia, already thinking at that time of managing an electronic file, not just an email as other platforms were. And in that line you keep working. And this has been done in these complicated months of health crisis, taking, as has already been said, extraordinary measures necessary not to paralyse the administration of justice. In the same motion, the Sailburu Artolazabal has already outlined the initiatives that have been put in place in recent months to adapt the justice system to new technologies. Some are essential at this time, in which, as has also been said in this forum, safety and health care must be given priority. There have been changes that have come to stay. And they've been very productive investments. They are now and will continue to be in the future. Just to mention some of them: the pre-date web system, remote connection systems, new computer equipment to facilitate the holding of telematic meetings, a multimedia recording system, the Telelana project, the update of the JustiziaSip platform. I could go on, because there were many performances that the counselor detailed to us. It's clear, he's not in his arms, he's working. And it will continue to do so because justice also needs continuous improvement. And it wouldn't be adjusted to reality to say that our system doesn't work, that it's collapsed, because they know it's not true. Better? It has already been said that these must not be stopped. This government is very conscious and 100% committed to its justice objectives. The Administration of Justice must have a clear objective: to provide care and protection, and to solve the problems of citizens in areas as intimate as the family or as relevant as work, through civil matters of conflict resolution, or criminal, where it must primarily offer security. At the centre of the service are always and will be the people, both those managed and managed as well as the personnel assigned to the service or all professionals linked to the Administration of Justice. Precisely, people are one of the four fundamental axes of this Government's action. And that is why work is being done and there is a firm commitment to continue working throughout the legislature to consolidate the administration of justice as a modern, agile and effective service, but also close and efficient, to achieve a restorative and resolutive justice. Because only in this way will effective judicial protection be made a backbone of a democratic, just, plural and developed society. The purpose, the commitment are strong: to achieve a modern judicial system. Justice will be provided with a strategic framework to make the above-mentioned judicial guardianship effective that vertebral element that every society requires to be fairer, more plural and more egalitarian, with various axes of action. As mentioned above, a strategic justice plan will be adopted that will set the parameters necessary to build this more agile, effective and digitized people-centred justice; the new judicial office will be established; the necessary actions will be carried out to ensure that infrastructure is in line with energy efficiency and universal accessibility. But justice is not only the citizens who come to the courts and courts, it is also the staff assigned to the courthouses and other minor headquarters located in our three territories. They have been talked about at this very moment too. And, therefore, an improvement in the conditions of the staff will be promoted by the development of the fourth working conditions agreement, with the aim of completing the job evaluation, keeping the rates of temporaryity low and encouraging the training plans that seem to be necessary, according to some, and pay. The Basque Institute of Legal Medicine will also be modernised. A fundamental service in civil matters, for example, in the processing of disabilities or in something as relevant as caring for victims of macho violence. Second of the objectives: to achieve a more agile, effective and digitized justice. It is committing to an effective, light, and modern administration of justice. We need a near organization that will give society a quick and appropriate response. This government has taken seriously the modification of our judicial system. He's working and he's still working and he's still offering me quality service. Our team believes investing in the Justice Administration is investing all over society. To this end, a new digital justice plan will be adopted – which has been explained by Mrs San José – with the aim of achieving the full digitisation of courts and tribunals and which, as we have committed ourselves to in the compromise amendment signed by this group and the Socialist Group, with the Basque People-Citizens Group, will be referred to this Parliament. And all this with the orientation put in place to complete the electronic judicial file, to carry out the development of digital procedures through the electronic judicial headquarters and in the impulse to actions through videoconferencing. But justice should not be left alone in the headquarters of capitals, in so-called palaces of justice. Because justice must be, above all, at the service of the citizen, and therefore it must be close. And that is where the justices of peace, to which Mrs San José has also referred and to which she will also be given greater material and human means, come into play. Finally, it is a question of achieving a justice that is closer, more reparative and more resolvative, and that is pivot in people, and whose purpose is to provide solutions, safely and promptly, to the disputes and disputes of citizens. This requires a commitment already made to modernise and digitise justice, facilitating access to justice by any citizen, and speeding up procedures, either through digital processing or through the holding of hearings and other judicial proceedings by videoconferencing. In conclusion, and as also stated in the compromise text, in order to achieve each and every one of these digitisation and modernization projects of our Administration of Justice, the corresponding budgetary appropriations will be made available to achieve the objectives set out and described. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. The next round of the group that hasn't run any corrections, Mrs Martínnez. Mrs Martínnez, Mistto. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u115	I'll be very brief. From Vox we have come to do constructive policy for the citizen, and not noise, as some people have said in the corridors of this Parliament. That is why we are going to adopt the compromise amendment, because we believe that we have been debating and suffering the issue of the collapse of justice since time immemorial. In our group, we believe that all measures involving modernisation and objective improvements for the Justice Administration itself and its users should be supported. We must reduce the funnel effect we suffer in the courts. We know that justice is fairer if we work with reasonable deadlines, something that is not happening at present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u116	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. I am now. The answer turn, Mr. Gordillo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly. Well, just out of respect for the groups that have come, they have prepared the issue, they have read it, they have analyzed it, they are here and today they have made some considerations, for man, I believe that out of respect for the House and the decorum that must preside over action in a legislative chamber like this, I think it is worth answering very briefly. In the case of the amendment to the whole presented by Mrs Gorrotxategi, I am surprised that you see the word company and... I mean, is the reason you don't support the motion because it scares you to show up or distrusts the word "business" to appear? Or why? Doesn't the Justice Administration serve businesses? Businesses don't fight? Do they fight each other sometimes? Citizens, companies, institutions, which includes public and private, that is, all... NGO, social initiative... Come on, I didn't do it with any dark intent, which seems to be accusing me. But well, come on, no. The thing is, I read your proposal, I read your amendment, and, well, I saw a couple of things. The truth is, I saw things I liked. Especially the part that copied me; that one I liked very much. Because I said, "Well, that's okay." Ask the government to bring us here an economic memory and such... In addition, with the same phrase, "a realistic timetable", which is then repeated. I say, "Man, look. That's been very good." But of course, then, what I noticed is that what you do is a bit of a different conception. That is, a kind of amendment that you are actually proposing. It is something different, and I don't know if more ambitious than what I was proposing that, simply because of the situation being experienced – and I think that, more or less, there is a certain agreement in the groups that it is necessary to intervene in this situation – we propose to run and present as soon as possible an inquiry to the counsellor, which has been made before the counsellor has had the opportunity to present her programme. So, I thought that for an amendment – it seems that I am defending it today, counselor – from the silence that you proposed, Mrs Gorrotxategi, I believe that we should leave it there. I believe that parliamentary courtesy – perhaps not the best day for this Parliament to talk about this issue – invites you to advise her, first set out her agenda and then, now, an amendment or a proposal from the stalemate that you make, that we have no inconvenience in discussing, do we not? But, well, I think there are points that can be interesting and that could be supported. Mr. Arzuaga, you're absolutely right. I give you the reason for the error of the old nomenclature of officials in the service of the Administration of Justice. It is true that Law 19/2003 amends the Organic Law of the Judiciary. It's been a bit of professional deformation and custom. The truth that we have corrected it in the transactional, which does not appear there. By the way, Mrs Gorrotxategi has not referred to the transactional either; she has referred only to the initial one that I presented. But come on, what we are going to vote on at the end is the compromise amendment, it is the final text, which I believe is part of what I also proposed, right? And now, finally, with this end, I was saying, "It's you, you're from a centralizing party and so on, and you're upset with your skills and you want to suppress laws..." Let's see. The issue of the legal order and the overpopulation that may have laws, the people who have dedicated themselves to studying this – I little, but something I have also done – talk about what it is about is to avoid overlaps between norms, that there are unnecessary antinomies. That's what it's all about, just that. When it comes to suppressing laws – I have spoken about it – I didn't mean to eliminate rights – if you're going there, I imagine you're going there, right? – because I understand that we also have to take care of the legal system and facilitate its application by operators. And as for the other, man, I think my party... Come on, what I always defend, and I will continue to do, is a decentralized structure, in which one thing prevails – it is something that sometimes in the autonomous communities, not only in this, but generally in Spain, we have not just seen, is the great defect of Spain as an incomplete federal state – which is the principle of federal loyalty, which is what is called Bundestreue. Finally, and with this I conclude, on the subject of this motion, I believe that the spirit that animates it is something that – in its group and in that of Podemos has also been said many times, they like to quote such sometimes grandiose phrases– Truman, the thirty-third president of the United States, also said something similar. He said, "It's impressive that things can be achieved if we don't care who gets the medal." Well, look, you have an opportunity today to vote in favour of this amendment, which is positive, we believe, for the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u118	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together Podemos-IU, Mrs. Hatsies, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u119	Yeah. Well, the truth is that the reasons for the amendment to the whole of our parliamentary group have to do with several reasons, mainly with which – and I have commented on this – we believe that although the digitisation and modernisation of the administration of justice in Euskadi is an outstanding subject that we must address, it seems to us that only from that perspective were not faced with the problems of efficiency and efficiency that the Basque judicial system has, and that it is worth introducing the issue of digitisation in a much broader context of need. That is the main reason why we tabled the amendment as a whole, which could have dealt perfectly with us, but it did not want to. And as far as the other question is concerned, frankly, of course, it is important, because on the portal of your speech, of your proposal, you see a very shocking conception of the justice system. Justice is a function of the public power, of the State or of whoever it is, of the public power, in order to satisfy a fundamental right, the right to effective judicial protection, which is materialized through the services of the Administration of Justice and which is carried out in favour of all citizens. Citizenship. Starting to individualize categories of citizens according to different users, well, we could do it, but then we would have to make a catalog of tens or hundreds, or what I know. So, individualizing these three columns as natural entities perceptors of the justice services shows a conception of the justice system that, frankly, I say, worries me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. Azuga from EH Collecta, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u121	Yes, from the seat, if you'll excuse me. I was saying that I was worried about the substance of this strategic plan, the direction it will take, and, besides, about the substance it will bring. Because I especially think that if one of the strategic plans is brought to us, it is because some things that are wrong are identified, things that work badly, and things that are in some way likely to be solved. And I was worried earlier, but now I'm a little more worried, because I've listened to Mrs. San José and Mrs. Pérez, and there's no possible criticism of the system, the Basque Justice Administration, because everything works well, because it's been provided with resources, because it's put money on the table, because it's more than justifiable investments, because it rubs off on excellence, because we've been pioneers. It sounded a lot to me at the time when Mrs. San José was a counselor and she had to justify the department itself and the work she was doing and, well, there is no criticism possible. Of course, I'm an exaggeration because I said we're in a situation of collapse. I've given a given and it's objective. That judgment of the contentious-administrative to which I referred is the one that is the worst in the Spanish State, it is the most saturated, it is the most collapsed. A given objective, I believe it does not lead to doubt or does not allow it to run counter to a given objective, as I say. So, my problem is, in the face of so much complacency, that I don't know what that strategic plan is going to come up with. That is why I say that we are going to be demanding, that we are going to study it carefully, and that we are going to make the criticisms that we have already started and that, later on, the solutions that are proposed to it will also have to be made. And Mr. Gordillo, I am going to make a comment. Well, yes, I have suggested that I believe that it is part of a mental framework, which is that of the Spanish State, and I do believe that it has a re-centralizing trend. He talked about the priorities of the lawyers who come here to provide services – I imagine from outside. I am more concerned about those who are here, about the citizens here, about the users, about the judicial agents, about the judicial operators themselves. And I am concerned, because in a way they look a lot at the Spanish framework, because also the problem that you are seeing of interoperability and coordination of systems, is also the Spanish framework. And here we also have our problems of interoperability and incompatibility of systems. And one of the last debates that took place in the previous legislature had to do precisely with the electronic file of the Ertzaintza certificates, which is incompatible with the digital computer systems of Justice. So, here we also have our own problems, and they were the ones that I was paying attention to, and I also hope that the strategic plan that comes along will solve them. Therefore, with our demanding and critical position, and ambitious too, we are going to opt for a vote of abstention towards the position that you bring us today, until we read that plan and can express ourselves with more knowledge of the cause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u122	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Basque Socialists, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Arzuaga, I think I've done self-criticism. I have not said that we have an excellent administration of justice or that it rubs off on excellence. I believe that I have been honest and have said that shortcomings have been identified and that we are on it to resolve them. And with regard to the Basque judiciary itself, Mr Arzuaga, I think you already know the position of the Socialists on this. We have already had the opportunity to express it in writing in the self-government presentation for a new Statute for Euskadi. To the group Elkarrekin Podemos-IU I have to say that it is late in its requests because the majority are either already made or are in process, and others have been picked up in the government agreement between my party, the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra, and the Basque Nationalist Party. I'm going to give you several examples. You are referring to mediation processes in juvenile justice, because in the last evaluation of the Fourth Youth Justice Plan mediation processes are increasingly present in juvenile courts – 5,810 in the period evaluated – mediations represent 31% compared to 69% of the measures, and mediations had a positive result in 79% of the cases. There is already a plan of action of the Department of Justice 2019-2021 on violence against women, which includes six areas of intervention and a total of 34 actions, with which to focus on inter-agency coordination, training of staff of courts of violence against women, the adequacy of facilities and the strengthening of information, care and support services for victims. A plan made by putting the victims at the centre, listening to them and reflecting on them; and with respect to their needs, so that they lose that fear of denouncing and, of course, the fear of starting a judicial path. A strategic justice plan was also initiated, and I have to tell you about the six-month deadline, the truth is that a strategic plan requires, in order to do it well, of course, a larger process. Because if we have to talk to all the legal operators, to all the administrations and we have to do it right, of course, we need more time. And in our autonomous community, of course, we are pioneers in establishing restorative justice, so, after ten years of service and intra-judicial mediation, we have put Euskadi among the most advanced countries in Europe in restorative justice. It is an unprecedented service this moment and we have already implanted it here in Euskadi. And I, in principle, restate myself in our compromise amendment, which mainly reflects the issues, the objectives, the approaches that the Salburu Artolazabal presented the other day in the inquiry made to it by the Basque People-Citizens Group. And, well, I thank Mrs Martínez for supporting this amendment. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u124	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Eubertarians, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u125	Thank you. Mr Arzuaga, at no time in my exhibition have I used the word excellence. On the contrary, the words I have used have been: deficiency and continuous improvement. And I keep reiterating, in that task you will always find us. Likewise, I have used the word "pioneers". And it's true, it's not about throwing flowers at us, it's a reality that we were pioneers. The Basque Justice Administration was a pioneer in the implementation of the first electronic file management platform. In its amendment it also talks about establishing instruments to resolve the saturation caused during the health crisis. The Government's objective of effective and efficient justice is, in fact, also addressed or intended to adopt an action plan for the reactivation of judicial activity to address the consequences of COVID-19. It also includes the right to express itself in Basque with full equality before justice, indeed. Likewise, within the objective of close justice for people, it is intended to advance the plan of linguistic normalization, in order to give effect to the right of citizens to the use of Basque, also in the field of justice. Mrs Gorrotxategi, the truth is that I do not know very well where to get the text of your amendment. You talk about courts of violence on the one hand, mediation service on the other, free justice... The reality is that all of them are subjects of deep silence and of an important social interest. That is why, frankly, what I am doing is inviting you to take initiatives on these issues, which I am sure will give rise to a very positive debate, just as it has been the one we have developed today, although I am already telling you that all of them are also subjects on which this Government is working. In this objective of a people-centred justice system, special attention is paid to victims of sexist violence, developing a plan for victims of violence against women; aiming to strengthen the work of comprehensive forensic assessment units and psychosocial teams; also aiming, or aiming at, setting up a specific section for the care of victims of violence against women; focusing on institutional coordination, training of staff of violence judges on women, adequacy of facilities and strengthening of information, care and comprehensive support services for victims, the Zurekin Plan. But also within the objective and purpose of ensuring that justice is, first and foremost, effective and effective, alternative means of conflict resolution will be promoted and strengthened, by promoting judicial mediation or by consolidating restorative justice in criminal and family orders, and by promoting negotiation and intra-judicial mediation practices in other orders, such as litigation-administrative, social or civil. Then there is a point, point four, in which you do pose a Basque strategy for the improvement of justice. And, honestly, a totum revolution has appeared to me. In any case, and to conclude, simply tell him not to worry, as we have said, the Government has a clear commitment: to achieve a modern, digitized Justice Administration. And she's working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. End of discussion, we'll vote for the half-directional correction that has been signed by the popularo-Ciudadans, Basque Socialists and Euzébertarians. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 69; 72; the supporters are 46; the opposites are 0; abstaining, 25; white, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-15.u127	What? He's lighting it. Well, it doesn't matter anymore. So it's accepted. And he was on the side of the rocks. "Que conste en acta." It's just that, since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was six o'clock in the afternoon.
