ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I can tell you that 32 lords and ladies have taken the vote. First point in theme list: "Pull up the proposition as a parlamentary group, as a special rate of COVID-19 on the immediate re-establishment of Euscal Autonomy in the Esquire. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Estarrona, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u1	Thank you, Mrs. Congressman, I hope you're okay. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. Vice President. Today, we're receiving all our 2021 budgets on this staff. Again, "el presupuresto más alto de la History." And because we looked at "new," and in 2009, 2011, 2015, 16th, 18th, 2020, because they were the highest in history, and I'm not going any further on dates. But being the highest doesn't mean they're good. For example, the former, being the highest of history, have not subverted so many states or propensities in the society of euscals: The EAE salary is still one of the highest in Europe; the rate of prevention is increased by the prevention of the conditions of work; the rate of attraction continues to be the highest in Europe, according to the study introduced yesterday by young men'suseal observations; their unemployment is already 42%; the weight of the industry in the last two decades has decreased in raw internal competition; the loss of small commerce; the last term of poverty at 46, and the chromation of this decade. Eta erealidade hau, orina bota ditudan datuak, Historiako aurrekonturik altuenak ez dakit zenbat bider izan ditugun ekitaldiekin era. And it is that the fact of being the highest means only that there is a greater forecast of expenditure, only that, how much; but we will have to see and analyse how and what the budget amount is intended for. Something we do not know, because even the great numbers, data and intentions we have known through the media, something to which the Lehendakari Urkullu and his Government have us accustomed. Baina, take it off! There is a significant element in these general facts and numbers, which has a direct relation to the discussion of today, and is the new debt: Since incomes have reduced 1,700 million dollars to the public debt, it's all over the budget and it's a new debt above $1,700 million dollars. It must be remembered that the Spanish Kingdom government has withdrawn its claim limits this year and for next year, but has put in a reference defense of the raw internal product of 2,2, and we have said "Amen." Euskal Autonomy Erkidegoaren kasuan 1,785 million euro from defiit Muga hori, hain justu, Jaurlaritzak hartuko duen zor berriria. Eta oraindik bagenuen marjina handiagoa, bathe, strip, guk ongi baloratzen dugu, behin eta berriz eskatzen egon gara, ez Bakarrik aurten, aurreko ekitaldietan ére. In previous budgetary years too, since Euskal Herria Bildu, we have asked for the possibility of indebtedness, because surely, if this had happened, we would also have faced the pandemic that we are suffering from from another reality and in parameters of greater strength of public services. And when COVID-19's pandemia is striking hard, it's going to be social and economic needs and there's a lot of public and private means to deal with, which must be mobilized in an unprecedented way, in a context where incomes of tax revenues will be reduced and reduced in an unprecedented manner. Here's the date: the ogauns have collected less than 10,8% till November, that is, 1,545 million dollars. And, according to the predictions, the descent will be greater at this end of the year, at the end of the year, of 13,3%. The expenditures, therefore, do not agree with the general revenues expected. And if you say so, we'll have to spend more than 2022 in the year after the tax collection will hardly recover what we lost this year. This situation obliges us and obliges them to rethink the privileges of the public euscal administration, and to assign resources, to create wealth, and to reduce social differences, by making a bold plan. At the same time, the sources of unusual income must be activated and there must be some financial mechanism which hasn't been used until now. I mean, in contrast to unusual situations, we need unusual financial mechanisms. And I believe that we all agree with this assertion, namely, with the necessity of unusual financial mechanisms, is the question: How do you pay the bill? And we have it clear: this crisis demands a collective effort and a collective effort, and it is necessary to arrive at the harmony and reproach. Those who have more than this must pay more, and not at all from the summit of the pyramid. Hence, in this extraordinary context of expenditures and collections, we present this proposition of setting a special rate of COVID-19, in order to enable the institutions of Euskal Autonomy to resist the needs of finance which will be inevitable for the next few months and years. That is, a definite proposition, a serious proposition, that can be made, realistic. As I said, it's proposed to establish a rate of COVID-19 as a stream to increase a number of tax rates of people with the highest financial capacity, and to temporarily increase. It would be settled in the four years to come the following direct tribute: On the one hand, on the income of physical persons, on the other, on the tax of the society, on the taxes on inheritance and inheritance. But I would like to remark that it would affect a very small percentage of society, especially those who have great wealth. And above all, it's important also to those who have won great gain by being in a state of pandemia. Isn't it logical, reasonable, just, to ask more effort for those who have won this crisis? There are more profit in this crisis than there are. Eta hau ez da posendul Marxisti iraultzailea. Esoterak, OECDak, IMFak, Confebaskek posetu ditu halakoak. OECD asks to raise taxes on wealth, capital and create other greens to pay for recovery (September). The IMF calls for taxes on the rich to finance the increase in public spending (in October). Confebask proposes to temporarily raise the IRPF and corporate tax. Cebek, SEA and Adegi submit a proposal to the Basque Government to provide more who can do so. And it is that only four countries in Europe, only four European countries, for example, collect less than the Basque Autonomous Community with corporation tax. We believe that it is proper to apply additional and exceptional tax considerations, which are temporal, as I have said, and to discuss with it a progressive and just tax system, in order to provide sufficient resources for the public policies we need. Eta horrella egiten ari dira Europako éta mundu osoko bieste lurralde askotan, eseterak, Erresuma Batuan, éta berez ez da ezkerreko gobernu bat, Johnsonena. The British Government plans to raise taxes on high incomes, businesses and capital gains to deal with the crisis of the coronavirus. London expects to raise 30 billion euros. Denmark presents a draft tax on big fortunes and banks. Aurreko esten, jada mundu malan, Europatik aldenduz, Argentinian era. Eta, gure ustez, egokia da zerga-neurri gehigarriak eta salbuespenekoak aplikatzea; tenporalak, sheath, age – berriro azpimarratzen duet –, horrekin will beat, zerga-system progressiboa eta bidezkoa Egypt. But we're gonna have to start talking about this again, too. We need a very serious appropriation attorney. It is necessary, therefore, that we should arrive at a profound tax-form founded on public discussion, to establish a more progressive, more effective, and more just policy of taxing. The expense and investment which COVID-19 will be exposed to public revenues in order not to base the solidarity of generations in a policy of debts which can only compromise the Union, in order not to be compared with the prosecution of Euscany Autonomy to the Union of Europe. And so we have received it in the middle-way that you have just received, in this middle-class way of communicating with Podemos together. But we know, we are conscious that the process is long and the process will be long, and that it will be the inner reform attorney. And so, on the other hand, the Chinese, knowing that the results will come later on, while on this second point of our middle course, as long as this form of tax-relation is completed, the legislature asks the principal assemblies of Arabba, Biska, and Gipu, to help them enter the special rate of COVID-19 immediately, in the months following by the Basque institutions, and in the years of financing. I have already mentioned some, but some of them are planning in Europe; e.g. a digital rate, known as a Google rate, ETS, flying, and neutining, and planning, the rate on plastic, the rate of la las transacincieras o la sobre el carbono to the front. So, the crisis of COVID-19 is the stop of public and private investments, the rise of employment and unemployment, the down-and-out expense of consumption and economic activity, and the loss of this crude reality, we are starting from all public institutions, all public administrations, and all public administrations. And so it must be, we have no doubt about it. But this has, of course, caused the increase of public expenditure, of taxation, of taxation, and of deficiencies. And, as I have said, it is necessary to make a deep form of taxation, and it is to be done, but we can't lose time, we can't afford to lose a chance, and here and now we must take our measures. And now we have the opportunity of assenting to the covid rate of today, because that is how we show true commitments, and by making decisions, is the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u2	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzerza. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u3	Good morning, everyone. First of all, I must say that although, in the second point, I am certainly most aware of the question to which we are going to refer today, it is the covid rate and the proposal to put into effect this extraordinary surcharge, which is the result of the situation generated by the pandemic and the economic and social crisis resulting from it, in fact, when we are talking about the modification of fiscal policy in Euskadi we are talking about a structural element which, well, our parliamentary group has raised on more than one occasion, both in this legislature and in the previous one. We believe that in the tax system, the fiscal policy maintained by the Basque Government, as well as the parliaments, is wrong, because in recent years it has basically been based on creating the perfect conditions to attract private investment by lowering tax rates to big fortunes and big corporations, and not doing it in turn – which, by the way, would be in somewhat orthodox liberal terms – not doing tax cuts to those who have less. In other words, the same fiscal pressure has been maintained for those who have less and, in turn, the fiscal pressure has been reduced to those who have more. That is, basically, the most basic precepts of a progressive fiscal policy have been breached. This is what has underpinned the fiscal policy in Euskadi in recent years, with a very significant deterioration of public services, of the income capacity of the Basque Government – in turn, that, conditioned by the impossibility of being indebted for the austerid policies of recent years, has further increased the inability of the Basque Government to cope with the situation of economic complications experienced – and has also deteriorated the opportunity and tools – now that we are experiencing a pandemic and the difficulties resulting from it – to implement leadership from the public – the fruit of that inability – to raise more and better. The proposal put forward in the transaction with EH Bildu, in the first of the points, refers – as I said – to the need in Euskadi to propose a structural reform in fiscal terms. Yesterday, Councilman Azpiazu said you have to go around a tax reform in Euskadi. That's right, turning it around as if it were a bride, but putting a premise ahead of it, and it's that in no case by means of tax increases. And, of course, this certainly gives us a dismay because we do not know in which direction this supposed tax reform can go, which the Councilman makes very little clear and which, of course, because of the interventions he has had in the Basque Parliament, as well as in the committees in which he has been pleased to appear, is not going to go in the direction we are proposing. It does not seem that it intends to pay attention to or at least to consider the possibility of implementing certain proposals that we put forward in the tax reform that we tabled a month ago. And, of course, we have not received any comments in that regard from the councillor either, so we are afraid that the tax reform that can be proposed – and that was also compromised in the government agreement – will not go, under any circumstances, in the direction of raising taxes to those who have the most, to the big corporations and to the big fortunes. And from a logic, moreover, that we consider wrong – which has more than once been mentioned here – that if taxes are raised at a time of economic recession, private savings would be withdrawn and go to the productive investment of the country, because it would be conditioned and, therefore, would prevent such economic recovery. We believe that it is false, that it is false because in the proposed tax reform proposed by Elkarrekin Podemos, when it addresses the need to raise taxes on big fortunes and big corporations, we consider that the private savings that are being talked about, in reality, are not a private savings that derives from productive investment in the country, but rather that it is a private savings that is usually going to the financial markets and to quote in Stock Exchange, in no case to the real and material economy in Euskadi. And, therefore, we believe that the premise on which the Basque Government or, in this case, the Councillor is based, in order not to contemplate tax increases is wrong, but it does not raise tax reductions or reduce the burden on those who have less. We have not heard of it either, under any circumstances, to the councillor. It has indeed been said that we are dealing with the budgets with a higher forecast of spending in recent years. It would be necessary to know exactly what years or exercises the Basque Government compares them to. Of course, if we are talking about the year 2020, that is, with regard to the budget implemented, there is an increase, but it is that... How there wasn't going to be an increase! In our opinion, this is an increase of 5.7%. At the level of the Government of Spain, the increase is 10.3, and we believe that at a time of war economy like the one we are living in, and bearing in mind that deficit rules have become more flexible, the Basque Government should be even more courageous in public spending capacity so that the public can lead the economic recovery. And in this regard, well, we think it appropriate that the level of expenditure in the 2021 budget should be increased, but we believe that it should have been higher. This, of course, also putting on the table the need for us to look at the budget, we also need to know exactly what that spending policy has been, where these public spending increases that the Basque Government is proposing go, because today – as was said earlier, except for certain leaks in the media – we have not had the opportunity to analyse the budgets exactly. We will now have an opportunity to analyse them and to discuss them and also the expenditure and revenue policy. It has also been mentioned in the previous intervention that we are not the only ones who propose tax increases to large corporations or, in this case, set extraordinary charges at the level of historical territories. The international organizations, which are certainly not communist Soviets, have been mentioned – and I conclude – raising the need that, in view of the galloping precariousness and the opportunity that exists today to avoid austerity and to promote economic recovery from the public, there are international bodies of neoliberal court that are raising tax increases. There's been talk about the IMF, there's talk about the OECD... We do not understand why Euskadi should be different in this regard. It is high time for the Basque Government to assume, as it has assumed, at least in terms of rhetoric, the end of austerity, the end of the rules of corsetment of public expenditure, that what it has assumed in rhetorical terms also assumes it in material and real terms and also assumes the need to raise taxes to those who have the most to comply with what is a basic principle of fiscal policy, which is progressive in order to be able to alleviate the complicated situation that at the moment lives a large part of Basque citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u4	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u5	Gracias, president. Good morning, everyone. The Basque Socialists do not agree with the non-legislative proposal put forward by the EH Bildu group for the following reasons. Firstly, because we understand that this is not the time for tax reform. To carry out a tax reform in Euskadi as a matter of urgency, as proposed, aimed at raising taxes, can have a negative impact on aggregate demand, income and employment in Euskadi, which can lead to a delay in the exit from the crisis. The revision of taxation requires first an assessment and a reflection shared with the competent institutions, because we want this tax review to be appropriate to the new reality, which is geared towards greater progressiveness for the strengthening of public services and support for the employment-generating economy. Right now, the Basque Government is in the approach of increasing public spending as a tool to boost aggregate demand for the economy and financing public policies. In the area of revenue for the 2021 Budgets, account must be taken of the combination of greater deficit capacity, greater budgetary revenue through contributions from outlying Member States and the suspension of fiscal rules by Europe, which will allow for a balance to be made with public debt between the reduction in revenue collection and the reduction of contributions; therefore, such a revision of Basque taxation can take place when economic circumstances improve and allow for this calm debate which we hope will be held as soon as possible. Secondly, because different types of aid and from different institutional stages have been put in place for the most affected sectors and enterprises. Since March, the security network has been launched with a very significant impact, both at the central and Basque levels. Credit lines and guarantees have been mobilised, especially for SMEs and self-employed people. In addition, there are ERTE and termination benefits for self-employed persons, which are direct income, business and family support. The hotels, restaurants and retail trade are the ones that have the most important participation in the endorsements of the ICO, Elkargi, the ERTE and the provision to the self-employed. The commitment of the central Government and the Basque Government to support the productive fabric and employment is clear. In addition, additional actions to strengthen this security network continue to be studied and approved in the hard weeks ahead. Thirdly, because tax measures must also be assessed at the state level and those recently adopted at the General Boards. The conclusion of new taxes, the evolution of tax changes in the Spanish tax model, the latest tax changes recently agreed on in the General Boards and their weight on revenue in the coming years make us to be cautious before taking initiatives of our own. Fourthly, because of the dubious application of a rate from the point of view of economic impact and time horizon. These proposals for surcharges, charges or tariff increases in the current extraordinary situation do not allow the economic impact of the proposed tax measures to be quantified or estimated in a minimally rigorous manner, since the economic scenario resulting from the extrapolation of the data available in previous years is far from the current economic context, and in any event the application of this measure and its results would not be immediately applicable, unlike the direct aid already being implemented. Fifthly, and lastly, because this issue has already been discussed in the General Councils, at least in two of the three territories, and this approach has been rejected. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate our commitment to fiscal review or fiscal reform, prioritizing the evaluation of the results and the impact of the measures implemented with respect to the reform we agreed in 2013 and 2018. I am convinced that when that time comes we will be able to participate and make important contributions by all the groups represented in this House, and I trust that we will be able to agree on many aspects, as I believe that we share the principles of progressiveness and social justice on which a fair, equitable and sufficient tax system must be based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, everyone. Después del intenso día de ayer, hoy venía e e seqidento. I have come to work, writing my wishes in the letter written by Olero, but I see that my spirit of Good Christmas does not include all of us, though we have tried to obtain many of the others, Mr. Estarona. Now since we have no middle course, I shall go to examine the tribute which is now called the rate of covid, because it is called a taxation. And I'm not going to argue about priorities, because we've got days before and today. I want to remind you that the Podemus had brought this discussion to this meeting only a few months ago, where we studied deeply about the necessity of the reform attorney, and each set out his point of view. But not only in this Assembly of Laws, but also in the Supreme Assembly; so that we know too many examples and positions of each. So we've come to take this examination again today, when we've discussed this meeting less than a month ago. So I'd like to know what's the purpose of today, if it's really studying the tax reform. I don't think that after a month of argument, that's the point. Or, Mr. Soso, is it possible that we should criticize the government again by naming the neoliberal? Tell me we used corrupt policies, Mr. Soto? It's funny, when we got to the deal around the ancients in 2020. I don't think you're going to accept an austere budget, and no, you didn't because you weren't. I firmly believe that it is time to join forces – as I said yesterday – and to put aside the scene and the confrontation. Our role will be to bring together channels for the people of Euskadi to move forward, to overcome the adversity of a pandemic and with the individual and collective commitment to ensure the health of all, to recover lost time and to move forward again as a country. I am clear that in this House we do not all have the same objective and that we have different models for its implementation, so I will stick to the initiative under analysis and try to summarise our position on tax reform. I am not going to go further, as I said before, because I already did on 12 November in plenary. With regard to the need to address urgent tax reform, the point one of EH Bildu's initiative – and so is also reflected in the transactional with Podemos – already knows our position: tax reform, yes, but not now. First, a thorough reflection on the outcome of the last fiscal reform, in 2018. Secondly, when this situation softens, we will have to see all the consequences that it has left us. And thirdly, we will have to promote convergence with Europe in terms of green taxation and the digital economy. That's our commitment, as reflected in our government program. There won't be a tax hike. We believe that this is not a valid formula for the moment, but I do reiterate the commitment to review taxation and also to strengthen the fight against fraud and tax evasion. In any case, we must not forget that this tax review must also be seen in a green fiscal policy panorama aligned with the European Union. The increase in tax collection, in accordance with the guidelines of the European Union, should be aimed primarily at public investments to reduce pollution and waste, as well as at combating climate change. We believe that a rise in taxes, at the moment, would lead to impoverishment and could jeopardize demand, which is the opposite of what we want to achieve. With our vision, this rate is not effective, it is limited. We must wait to have an overall view and then act and propose. It goes with great care, although they know that any change will not come into effect, at least, until 2022, and the rushes are not good counselors. We need to take re-launch and social protection measures. Therefore, fiscal reform does, but once we see the results of economic and social revival through our programmes, such as Berpiztu or the courageous Budgets of 2021 that the Basque Government will present, just today, in the Basque Parliament. And on this line goes our amendment. What I am going to ask again to the members of EH Bildu and Podemos are those questions on which I did not have an answer in the previous debate, and which I find interesting to comment on. Why does the Podemos Group, being part of the Spanish Government, propose for the common territory a prompt rise in taxes and in Euskadi a profound tax reform? Considering, for example, that Euskadi, after Navarra, is the community that most taxes high incomes in IRPF, that, compared to Madrid, it does tax the assets and that it also taxes the estates and donations, that in the company tax it has collected a minimum type of taxation that the State does not collect or raise in its specific tax amendment. So, why are those differences? The reforms have to be done from a serious, deep and calm debate, something in which – I recall again – the Banco de España has also coincided, indicating that it would have been preferable to delay the introduction of state tax changes until the economic recovery was more robust. The OECD report of 20 May 2020 on tax policy to be implemented in response to the covid crisis at each of the different stages of the crisis is also in line. In this OECD report dealing specifically, as I said, with "Measures to be applied on tax policy in response to the covid crisis", which is entitled the OECD May 2020 report, sets out, as I said, different fiscal policies to be applied at different stages of this crisis. Among the measures and aid to be offered in the period of confinement and the period of restriction of economic activity, what it says is that fiscal policies must be coordinated with monetary policy, in combination with access to zero-type loans and other liquidity-promoting aid – beraz, hori ere egiten dugu – and it proposes in the fiscal part – and here is what we are dealing with today – the possibility of supporting deferrals with the reduction of rates and even the exemption of some taxes. In other words, the rise in taxes would run counter to the OECD proposals or guidelines. And only in the recovery phase – which would be the next phase to this one in which we would be now – does it propose to re-establish the measures of the previous phase, but it points out as a relevant issue the fact that the elimination of the measures does not imply an excessive increase in the tax burden at a specific time in time. Beraz, guk argi dakkagu age world milako organizationek era. Beast slut beats, premiumazkotasunari buruz. Why would it be necessary to have a tax review, Mr Soto, which is urgent in Euskadi and in Spain, not? Very illustrative in this regard is that in the presentation of the Government's 2021 General State Budgets, to which you are a party, you said that you would not address a thorough tax reform until you did not overcome the current health crisis and regain economic stability. I would appreciate it if you could explain to me the difference in urgency, why urgent tax reform is needed here and not in the common territory. Reflections that I also refer to EH Bildu, since in the previous debate I did not get an answer, and it is about the different fiscal model defended in Nafarroa and Madrid versus the one defended here. And, lastly, on the need for fiscal reform in order to be able to draw up an expansive budget, because, without prejudice to the fact that the Government has already explained on numerous occasions – the Government has explained it here, and the Sailburu on many occasions – that it is not necessary, you will be able to observe today that such urgent fiscal reform will not be necessary because the budgets presented, without such a tax reform, are courageous, expansive and without cuts in health, education and social policies. We know that it will be difficult times, but with good management of resources and the rigour with which we work in the department we will move forward, so I hope that we can talk, analyse the proposals of all the political parties and, in particular, of the Elkarrekin Group We can, that after reviewing the documentation sent last Thursday by the Basque Government you have been able to observe that the Basque Government has reasonably complied with the commitment for the Budgets 2020. We are aware of the difficulties that we are experiencing, which require prioritizing agreements, but it is time to join forces, from the stage to the materialization of agreements. So, as you know, you stay with us, you get closer to your attitudes, and the more we get a deal like this, the better it'll be for Euskadia's good, leaving no one behind you. That's our goal. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Myst. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. They present today, again, the same debate that they always come to denounce: "We raise taxes. Let's raise them because, if we raise taxes, they'll collect more." In the end, everything is very simple. You raise taxes, people happily pay and, finally, the state coffers are filled to pay for the services they provide. What can go wrong? Let's make a short list. It is not true that higher taxes are collected more. You know that the balance of collection is complex, not given to unforeseen or crazy ideas. Well, what can happen by raising taxes is that, far from what they claim, they can finally collect less. Who are the ones who have the most? Most likely, those who have the most end up being the Spanish middle classes and the SMEs. In the end, the inks will be reloaded in the usual ones, those that are already subject to enough tax burdens. Does society understand another tax? Do you think so? The mastodontic political expenditure is very present in the Basques; you know, and of course, the waste of our administration. And they also want to impose one more tax, without proposing a single cut in the Basque political class. There are many more doubts, but time is finite and I have to develop the alternative, an alternative that passes through the palpable and recognizable example of what has been said, of the Basque political mastodontic class. I invite you to look, look to see which country or region of the world – since they talk so much about equalising us to Europe – has a similar rate of politicians per inhabitant, a similar rate of political spending per capita. There isn't, but it's no coincidence. Building an imagined nation requires work and people on pay. I also pay for these people to preach with dogma. Napoleon's phrase "A priest saves me 100 gendarmes" can be applied in the opposite direction: an imagined nation requires 228 politicians. Yesterday we had an extraordinary plenary session on European reconstruction funds. Everyone is working on reviving the economy, including its part of the government, but now its idea is to raise taxes. A wonderful plan, moreover, to boost consumption, which is so much needed. As I said at first, what can go wrong? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u10	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Euscalo Popular-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Bureau, Mr Vice-President. Today, we are faced with an initiative – of these somewhat standardized initiatives that the proposing group has presented in other institutions, including the Bizkaia Provincial Council, whose General Councils have already rejected it – concerning the immediate application in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country of the extra covid rate. Among the arguments developed refers to the expenditure incurred by the crisis and so on, and as a solution a surcharge to a series of taxes is proposed. This was the original proposal, and then the transaction between the two usual groups who always end up having sex at the last minute, Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu, simplifies it, but the idea is the same. Well, in the proposal you make, I think you make a number of statements that, man, I think you don't entirely conform to reality, do you?, at least, as I interpret it. That is to say, it is said that progressivity is not fulfilled, and, then, I don't know, we have to charge the IRPF, societies, assets, that the rich pay, the usual, right? And the taxes on estates and donations, the same thing, paid by the rich. Look, the IRPF is already a progressive, very progressive tax, which depends here, as you know, on the outlaws, which are the ones that mark the tax rates. One example: in Bizkaia, a single, childless, 36-year-old worker who pays 14 pay, if he pays 1,500 euros – which, by the way, is the most common salary according to INE data –, if he pays 1,500 euros, he pays 4,200 of IRPF; if he pays 2,500 euros – I am rounding up – he pays 8,600 of IRPF; if he pays 4,500 per month, he pays 32,600 of IRPF; and if he charges 8,900, he pays 82,000 of IRPF. That is, the first example, that of the 2018 Euskadi average salary, to be paid 1,500 euros per month is paid 4,000 per year, has multiplied the salary, the tax effort, regarding that example to the last 20 times. That is, one pays 4,200 euros if it charges 1,500, and if it charges the maximum, 8,900, it pays 82,000. I mean, I think that the examples that also put the foral diputation on their own websites, I think it proves – let's go, you have to throw a little bit of the calculator and so on – that this is just progressive. Isn't this progressive? Another interesting aspect is that they always refer to the usual, don't they?, that pay people with greater economic capacity, such... They used to say directly "the rich", now it is "people with more economic capacity"; but what is more economic capacity: to charge 30,000 euros a year, to charge 60,000, to charge 100,000? 150,000? According to the data of the Tax Agency, one in 200 workers charge more than 150,000 per year. It is a certain number of taxpayers, but it is not at all the great majority either, nor, above all, seems sufficient to finance those expenses that you say and put on the table that it is necessary to cover. Then we'll talk about alternatives to cover this kind of expense. Speaking of property tax, there is a textual talk of equalising the fiscal pressure of the Basque Autonomous Community with that of the European Union. Man, I don't know if you know, but the European Union's regulatory trend is precisely to abolish the property tax. Many European Union countries have never, ever had it; neither Italy, nor Greece, nor Portugal, nor Hungary, nor the United Kingdom. Others have been eliminating it: Austria, in 93; Germany, in 96; Denmark, in 97; and in 2001 Poland and the Netherlands; Ireland, Luxembourg and Finland, in 2006; Sweden, in 2007. That is to say, at the moment, at present... not in the European Union, in the European Economic Area, yes, those who declare or who have the property tax are Norway and Switzerland. I mean, what they're proposing is that we put Switzerland's tax model. Well, man, I don't know. The inheritance tax. Look, the inheritance tax is that it does not exist in most of the European Union either. It is true that it is applied by France, Belgium, Germany, Denmark. It is true, but in most countries it does not exist either. And if you want another data, I also say to you: in Spain, in 2016 they were collected for this inheritance tax 2.6 billion euros, which is the same, proportionally to GDP, that they collected Finland, Malta, Luxembourg, etc. I mean, there's the tax. I, what I don't understand is what you're talking about, because it's already too equal; even a little bit above. In corporation tax; I only look at the tax. Corporate tax is not a progressive tax because, of course, it is a tax on business profits in this case. Well, there are micro-enterprises; the basic rate is 20%. The general, 24. In common territory, 25. I don't know... What do you say, companies with greater economic capacity? I think this is, a little bit, the typical retahíla, isn't it? The big companies... Which, by the way, say "big corporations." This is a bad translation of English, which in English "big business" is corporation. In Spain "corporation" is not; "great enterprise" would have to be. The "corporations" thing, that's a break from the bad English translation. What do you want, to increase taxes on businesses so that economic activity can be brought to an end and, therefore, the collection that public and social expenditure can cover? Well, I'm not at all. We shall vote absolutely not. As a result, this initiative and others that you usually bring, as one that you have also proposed on creating an extraordinary fund for the municipalities, this looks like it's part of that war that you keep with the north bench, south bench, north bench, I don't know, to see who is more successful, take more care of yours – as you say –, cooler, more nationalist sometimes... I don't know. I liked it more... obviously, I did not share it at all, but it seemed to me to be a more serious, better elaborated, more articulated proposal, which Mr Soto presented not long ago in this Parliament originally. He presented it in the plenary on 12 November, and it was a debate, which, as always, his partners next door ended up cannibalizing them, because in the end what was left of that plenary was that Mr Rodríguez said that they were coming to overthrow the regime of 78 and so on. That is what remained of that debate, which I insist, I do not agree with you at all, Mr Soto, but I do recognize that you did a job, within what is your point of view, a little more serious; but, come on, at all. The conclusion of this, what is it? For, man, beyond an additional performance, that this initiative, the only thing that seeks is simply that not only the majority of Parliament, but other groups like ours let's say no, I don't know if to then get a little bit out of victimism, of... No, look. It's just that when you want to reform the tax system, it's a very serious thing. We have to do a paper reform. Already the penultimate data I give you, the subject of fiscal pressure. The fiscal pressure in the Autonomous Community is lower than in the European Union. It is true that the tax rates are slightly smaller; that is true. But you just have to tell the whole movie. And the whole film is that in Spain, including the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, companies take on a series of burdens, a series of payments for the benefit of workers, which companies in Europe do not do. With this, if we add that to the expenditure already incurred by the company tax rate, then the truth is that here you end up paying more, by the way. I therefore believe that the proposal is in no way going to be the subject of our vote in favour. As for the transaction, then, man, the transactional ones, neither. And then, that of the government, come on, that of the group that supports the government... Me, just one thing, huh? I'll read you the amendment, see if you understand. I mean, why... "The Basque Parliament urges the competent institutions of the historical territories to develop and culminate, by sharing the results in the relations bodies established in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, the process of reviewing the results of the reforms adopted in 2014 and 2018, incorporating in this analysis the elements arising from the economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic at the time when the indicators have stabilized and allow for useful conclusions to be drawn for the objectives of reflection." I had to breathe because there was no point, right? I mean, I'm going to sum them up, let's see what's going on, and now, if that's what we'll see. That is, a little, the proposal, but we will not vote in favour of it either. We'll abstain. Not only because it is difficult to understand, but because, man, not every study of the tax system is always positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u12	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. It's the same, amaieratik hasiko naiz, because Mr. Gordillo here has given us a class of everything we don't have to do, but he hasn't said what we have to do. I mean, indebtedness does, to get out of this crisis, to respond to the consequences of this crisis, but it's not telling us how we're going to increase the necessary income, is it? So, well, if you could at least give me some proposal in the reply... Because we here today have brought a realistic and achievable proposal, which can be made. We may be more in agreement or more in disagreement, but at least we have brought a proposal. And he was saying, it's true, that the progressiveness in the IRPF is there, but we also consider that a rather important effort can be made. And, in fact, in the proposal that we put forward at the various General Boards with the covid rate as we put it, it was an increase on the tax rate, but of the incomes above 48,090 euros. I repeat and underline again, huh? Exemption in the application of the surcharge up to 48,090, on the general liquidated basis, okay? That, on the one hand. And on the property tax, it is obvious, that is, I am not going to get in too much, because it is a debate in which we already know each other's positions on the same, but it is true that in the company tax we do have a lot of room. In the original proposal we suggested that companies that have increased their profits during the crisis – because there have been, depending on the sector in which they operate – can contribute more. And it seems to us something that's logical, that's fair and that's common sense. But also with an exemption up to 300,000 euros of profit, huh? Eye! So, we're saying, for those companies that have earned a lot of money, that they contribute. It is true that this is not going to imply a huge amount of money for our arks, but I believe and believe that we will all agree that, whatever the public arks enter, welcome be. And there are people, as I said, who can do it. And I repeat again, it is not that EH Bildu asks, it is not that it is a Marxist, Leninist and revolutionary approach, it is that even the IMF and the OECD or Confebask also raise these kinds of questions and climbs also for those people and companies that have obtained benefits throughout this crisis. He was also thinking... I left the papers in the atrium, the notes of the replica. Well, I'll just try to sum it up briefly. It was said that, which is not the time, the representatives of the parties that support the Government said that it is not the time and that a calm debate is needed for fiscal reform. Yeah, but we're in the middle of a pandemic. It's just that the debt of EUR 1.7 billion we're doing now. It's just that Mr. Azpiazu said that next year we're going to be even more indebted. So, if it's not the time now, when is it? When is it? Because we need it, for what we were saying, because of a question of intergenerational solidarity, we cannot leave such a hole to the next generations. We also have to contribute those who are currently contributing to the public arks, and it is also that they allude to the necessary revision of the fiscal reform of 2014, that it did have some depth, and then that of 2018, which were small touches by the hand of the People's Party for the approval of the Budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community. But it's been two years with this excuse. They have been at the General Boards for two years with the excuse of the review of such labor reform, especially, as I say, of which it was done in depth in 2014. We've got to put the batteries on! And it is that, moreover, I do not understand very well, because – and I am grateful for Mrs Berrojalbiz's recognition of the attempt to compromise and reach agreement – at the second point of that agreement you said the opposite of what you have been holding here today. They said: "Now is not the time, there is no need for fiscal reform because this, among other issues, increases in fiscal pressure makes it difficult to get out of the crisis." That's what I heard, I think Mrs. Pérez said. Yes, but on the second point that they had proposed to us is: "Parliament declares that a thorough fiscal reform is needed to achieve a more progressive and equitable fiscal policy that accompanies the debt policy". If they have proposed that to us, now why they say no; if in their government program, if in their government program, in the sixth of the commitments they have collected the need: "Agertoki berri honetan, covidare agertokian, Gobernuak eta euri eusten dioten alderdiok konpromisoa hartzen dugu erakunde ekudunekin batara fiskalitate berri batan inguruko hausnarketa sakona egiteko fiskalitan". So, I don't quite understand the different positions that have been held here. I was saying, right?, that the budgets that have so far been presented were not austere, they were not austere. Then, why is Mr Azpiazu, the Councilor of Economics and Finance, saying that austerity has ended, that it has ended the time of austerity. If they were not austere, why is Mr Azpiazu saying that the time of austerity has ended. So, it's all contradictions, really, what we're listening to here today. And finally, because I'm running out of time, it's true that in Nafarroa we haven't been able to pull out everything we wanted, but at least a tax reform commitment by 2021, which 2021 is already, huh?, in 16 days. And you're saying it's not the time, but, well, in Nafarroa we've made that commitment. Finally, there was also talk of the general state budgets. And, as I said, it was commented here and it was said that the increase in fiscal pressure makes it difficult to get out of the crisis. But I will now return the question to you, both to the Basque Nationalist Party and to the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u14	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u15	I'm finishing up, Madam President. And that is why, if it is not the time here to make retouchings, if it is not the time here to implement fees, why have you voted in favour and you have presented in your draft General State Budgets amendments of the IRPF, of the socimi or of the taxation of the dividends of the companies. They have it in the budget project between page 174 and 207.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u16	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u17	Therefore, why in Madrid yes and why not in Euskadi?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u18	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Team Representative. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u19	Good, again. "It's not the time" is usually the most common phrase when we talk about this issue. Three years ago, in 2018, the Budgets were agreed with the People's Party, and the basis of the negotiation and the budget agreement had to do with a fiscal reform. I suppose, of course, the direction of the fiscal reform proposed by the People's Party and that which we and we can put forward have absolutely nothing to do with it, and then, at that time, it was opportune to make a change in fiscal terms. Because while the People's Party was being dealt with that tax reform, we were being told here over and over again that it wasn't the time, by then, huh? We are talking about an extraordinary situation, that we are now experiencing an extraordinary situation and that, therefore, it is not now up to us to make tax reforms in the terms in which we and we put it. I do not know when that ordinary time is going to be when we will be able to address this issue in the terms in which we and we raise it, and not in the terms in which the People's Party or Citizens do. The letter to Olentzero was discussed as a result of yesterday's monographic debate; for a letter to Olentzero, the predictable list of projects to be sent on 29 December in relation to the companies that – we do not know – have contacted the Basque Government to fix them. Auster budgets, which the 2020 ones were not because they agreed with Elkarrekin Podemos or that they are not supposed to be Auster budgets or not..., sorry, in view of our agreement they are, but as far as the items agreed with Elkarrekin Podemos are concerned. Austerity has been applied there, because so few have been executed... You said that Thursday we had the result of the written questions we put in connection with the implementation and non-implementation of the items of our agreement. We will bring you here, don't worry, we will bring you here the exact figures of compliance with the 2020 budgetary agreements, we will bring them to you, because they are frankly worrying about the Basque Government's willingness to comply with a budgetary agreement. Finally, I will give you some examples, but as far as the parties agreed to combat macho violence is concerned, virtually nothing has been implemented or implemented, many of those parties have been derived from 2021 and so many others have been derived to deal with the covid. That is the answer given, in games related to macho violence. In environmental policies, of 45 million budgeted, today there are 45,000 euros executed from a study by Jaizkibel and some calls for grants have been launched that have not even been completed. In employment and economic development, apart from the fund embedded in the Ezten programme, nothing more has been implemented, 10 million which have resulted in helping two companies alone. Nothing has been implemented from the rest of the agreed games. I do not know, we will already bring you here the disaggregated document so that, in the end, you will look at what the 2020 budget is about. He says why we don't apply what we say here in Spain. Look, in Spain we are part of a coalition government, yes, but in a minority, we are the minority party of the coalition government. We mark a horizon, a horizon of the future which is the same here and there, which is an integral reform of fiscal policy, both in the common system and here, but we have the arithmetic ability to do what we can. And the fiscal reforms that were mentioned that have been carried out or the fiscal changes that have been made at the level of the common system have been the result, yes, of the drive of the United We can at the state level, because if, of course, we apply the logic that the spokesman of the Socialist Party has made today in Parliament, neither, indeed, would those fiscal changes have been made at the state level; the few that have been made have been thanks to the drive of the United We can. Here some would have been done if the Socialist Party had also done that pressing exercise to the Basque Nationalist Party where it could have implemented fiscal reforms, but, of course, it is not their bet, either in Basque or Madrid. And with regard to the fact that the Basque Country applies the principle of progressiveness and that, in relation to the common system, of course, it is not a place that attracts companies in competitive terms because of its fiscal conditions, all the observatories in relation to fiscal competitiveness at the state level mark that Bizkaia, followed by Araba and then Madrid, are the territories where the most facilities are offered for the establishment of companies by the fiscal regime that prevails in those territories; and we all know, when we talk about fiscal competitiveness, what we are talking about, that it is a euphemism to say that they are being charged little, that they are being charged little for the benefits they achieve, and the ranquins in relation to this issue make it meridianly clear: Bizkaia, Araba and then Madrid. And if for Madrid it has been necessary a fiscal harmonization that will apply to the whole common system and the whole proposed state...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u20	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u21	... "Yes, I'm finished right now" in the process of negotiating the General State Budgets, why not also here a principle of fiscal harmonisation in the minimum corporate tax rate so that in Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Araba the exact same or at least the same type of corporate tax is paid; at least the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u22	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Estarrona, indeed, this crisis can not only be paid with debt, it can not only be paid by future generations, we agree. We are also going to have to reflect on what part of this crisis we have to assume, and tax reform will come into play, but at no time do we have to put it urgently or immediately. We want Basque taxation to focus on fiscal convergence in Europe and to enable it to adapt to the economy and emerging challenges, including the environmental criteria as well as the objectives of the 2030 Agenda. But the Council of the European Union has also estimated that increases in direct taxation will reduce the real potential for economic growth, and this is what we believe, that a rise in taxes at the moment would lead to impoverishment and could endanger demand, which is the opposite of what we want to achieve now. Mr Soto, the tax reform of 2013 was aimed at achieving a more just, progressive and efficient tax system; therefore, in addition to affecting the modification of certain tax figures, measures were also taken to combat tax fraud and circumvention. Indeed, thanks to this agreement between the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, the Inter-institutional Commission to Combat Fraud was set up in 2013, which, among other measures, has promoted the implementation of joint inspection plans or the exchange of data, which has been a notable step forward in the fight against tax fraud. The Basque Socialists have led the main fiscal reforms and the fight against fraud. Our commitment to fair and progressive taxation is clear, and we are already in the process of reviewing the fiscal reforms of 2013 and 2018, working already, therefore, on a new fiscal proposal. It is true that, as I say, we are dealing with an expansive budget; we are also dealing with a series of direct measures that are forming, as I said earlier, that safety net; we are dealing with a concertation of new taxes, and different tax changes have also been approved. All of this makes it easier for us to have a debate, to be able to assess how these measures are going to impact the economy and that when we are at another time of recovery or growing we can tackle fiscal reform. Because, as you know, tax reforms always have to be addressed at that time, not in crisis, in crisis is when it is not recommended to touch taxation. In that regard, we must also be cautious and bear in mind that we are talking about a deep, structural fiscal reform, with a medium and long-range vision. You cannot touch taxation to try to fix everything; taxation is a fundamental and much more important instrument than all that. So that's what I wanted to move them. I see that we agree in principle and in diagnosis, but it is true that the times are different, because we understand that we must also give way to that growth and give way to all those measures that are being developed at this time. Finally, I would also like to recall – as I have a little time left – that Euskadi is the most favourable autonomous community for middle incomes and the most unfavourable, after Navarre, for high incomes. I would like to remind you that we are at a maximum of 49%, when neighbouring communities or other types of communities, such as Madrid, are at 43.5; Castilla-la Mancha, 45; Aragón, 47.5. Well, this is also good when we talk or so much debate is raised about taxing high incomes as well. In any case, I would like to thank you for the effort you have shown, Mr Estarrona, for that compromise amendment, although we have not finally been able to reach an agreement now; but I trust that in the next debate we will have, that we will have many, and we will be able to address that tax reform, we can find ourselves. I'm sure it is. Thank you so much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, if we are where we are today, if we are a modern and advanced country, it is thanks to the effort and the work developed. We have much to do, yes, we have to continue to progress and rebuild what this terrible pandemic is destroying, but thanks to what the Basque Nationalist Party has done for years and years we have these quotas of economic-financial self-government, healthy accounts, with margin of indebtedness, with the ability to reallocate resources and a relevant muscle in health, education and social protection. And all of this has served to meet our commitment to present brave, expansive and undiminished budgets for 2021 today in health, education and social policies. However, we must continue to work to strengthen and develop our system, because the effort is well worth it. Because we work for the common good of our society, to which we also have to thank for the enormous effort you have been making in these past months so complicated; effort, commitment and solidarity. We must follow the line of the coordinated struggle with the outside institutions against tax fraud; that such tax reform can be revised once we see the results in economic and social recovery through our programmes, such as Berpiztu, or the courageous Budgets of 2021, which have been presented today in this Parliament. Brave and uncut budgets, yes, of course; tax reform, too, but not now. And yes, we say that, Mr Estarrona, in our government program, but we must read everything the program says, because we say that we will do a tax reform, but it arises once the results of COVID-19 are seen. We fulfill our commitments because, obviously, it says that we have not made a tax reform and that the covid is an excuse... I'm going to let you tell me that the covid's excuse, because, I think it's not, I think the covid is something that's paralysing the world and at least the tax reform, too. Soto jauna, 2020ko Aurrekontuen akordioari buruzkoa. In February, before the pandemic, 87% of what was agreed had been activated, but the pandemic has obviously altered priorities, as you can understand. With regard to the parties agreed with you – and because you have cited certain of them, such as health and education, for example – more has been invested than agreed. Or on equality issues initiatives have been put in place, those agreed with you, the 25-N campaign to make women visible, or the Women's House, for example. The confinement, the paralysis of activities have brutally altered our reality; that is why we have committed ourselves – and we have done so in writing – to including the unimplemented in the Budgets of 2021. You have written and motivated responses from each of the departments of the Basque Government. Please, when you take the test, I'd like to have the right answer...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u26	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u27	The members of the legislature have a little phrase of hronece, alone, a different political model, as it is natural, and the opposite has no meaning. And the population's bet on our model and program, and also on the difference. So we must keep our commitments. However, with everyone's contributions, our proposals will be better and improved. There's always room for improvement, so our doors are open for interview, because the results in the team are better. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u28	Thank you. I'm sorry. Mist must not take the word. Citizens-PPk bai? Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u29	Thank you very much, President. Well, I think the positions have become more or less clear. Every time there is a crisis problem, of course, of quadrupling of accounts, there are always two solutions that you put forward from your bench, and also from Elkarrekin We can: either the increase in debt – which, by the way, you abstained the other day when the government proposed an increase in debt, something that seemed to me curious at least, but, well, the inconsistencies have already been remembered also by Mrs Berrojalbiz of the PNV – or the increase in taxes, such as this, for example. Tax increases, any reform that takes place in a tax system has to be meticulously analysed by the opposite effect that it can have, precisely, of what it implies, which is the increase in collection. That, I understand that you control it, that you know it. He says, "No, he's got me, he brings solutions." I already give you solutions: the solutions are precisely the tax reduction, do an analysis of what tax system we have and, above all, improve the efficiency of the collection system and improve the efficiency of the Administration; there we save a lot of money. That is the way forward. As for the competitiveness that I used to say of certain territories, man, there is Bizkaia, there is Madrid, Andalusia is improving a lot – by the way, we govern in these last two. This also has to do with other issues such as legal certainty, such as the ease of opening a particular business, etc. It's just that that's very important. Look what happened in Catalonia, look what happened in Catalonia, what happened with companies. It's just that you always demonize businesses, but you only remember them when you have to tax them. For you companies are the bad one, but you remember them when you have to tax them. Do you want to raise taxes now to the hoteliers? Well, man, me, the truth is, I just don't see it. I think it is totally incongruous and I think it is totally contrary to what should be sought, that it is a greater efficiency of the tax system and, above all, a greater efficiency than what is expenditure in the administration. With regard to tax reform, they have already told you, but the truth is that the cross covenants that we also live in this House are sometimes a little complex, isn't it? I mean, we have a PNV-PSOE government and at the same time the PSOE has a government with Podemos, and then you with Podemos and Bildu usually vote together, but also now, in Madrid, it turns out that you are trying to replace those of the PNV in that somewhat generalized process of bleaching that you have started now. It's a little complicated sometimes to follow them, but, well, those in power now here have told them that now it doesn't touch, now it doesn't touch tax reform. Well, the day a tax reform comes up, I think we'll have to do it – come on, and we'll be there to analyze it and monitor it – any reform process that is done with taxation has to be done with papers, with studies and with analysis. I insist, it's the usual; they quote here "No, it's that the IMF has said and so on...". Listen, any agency or any institution, the International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation, for example, based in Amsterdam, which is one of the most prestigious there is, or the OECD itself, when making the analyses, is that precisely what it is responsible for is to make this visible, which is what I have told you before. It's just, let's see, it's a little lower company tax certainly here, but that has to do with the employer here taking on additional burdens that entrepreneurs don't take on in those countries. The model as a whole needs to be analysed, the model needs to be analysed as a whole of social benefits, competitiveness, in fact, what services are being proposed, etc., etc. In other words, it is not possible to ask bravery, come, a GNP to make a tax reform – which, by the way, has already been lost in the historical territory of Bizkaia as well. Well, no, obviously. I discuss everything you bring, and, come on, we'll keep repeating the arguments, but the solution I put to you, the recipes are those. The recipes are precisely to increase competitiveness. These are the recipes: to increase competitiveness, to improve the economy, precisely, so that more taxes can be collected. Increasing economic activity means that more taxes are collected, and this makes it possible to finance, in fact, more and better public services. That's the recipe. And that's the recipe in the social and democratic rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u30	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. It's over and we're going to vote EH Collect and we're together with the middle-direction signed by the Podemos-Bezzerz teams. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u31	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of Eukalia, the general corrections which have been introduced by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes given, 75; 41; the contrary, 27; the abstainments 7; white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u32	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposition of Podemos-Nodemus, by the law of the parliamentary faction, concerning the development of an euscal system for the emigrants and the refugees. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Martínez Izón, representing the Animite team, has the word. Anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u33	Thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all. Lehenik eta behin gustatuko litzaidake, puntu honekin hasteko, kanpotik etorri dienak agurtzea eta eskerrak ematea: Federation of Immigrant Associations of Bizkaia, representatives also of the Network of the Pattern of the Collective of Active Immigrant Women, the Emigrants Without Borders Association, Ongi Etorri Errefuxiatuak and Zaporeak, among others. I must confess that this initiative which we originally introduced was rather long, and I thought it would be rather complicated to manage it, to argue, to arrive at the agreements, but fortunately we have an extensive agreement with EAJ, and with PSE, and of course with our team. And therefore, first of all, I thank you for the conveniences you have set up for Miren, Lovene, and Jone for their honesty and dispute. Tomorrow is the International Day of the emigrants, and to have an extensive deal in the legislature, I think it's enough to please you. The truth is that when we deal with these kinds of issues I feel – and I have said this once – a greater responsibility than some others because, although what we are doing today is taking a small step forward, by the people who have preceded me in my political space and also the people of civil society who have been fighting and giving their best to advance rights for the people, in this migrant case, I think the list is very, very high. When I say that I want to record it, it is not emigrants, refugees, assessed, or apatrits. They're people. And as they are people, those who speak in this privileged tribe ought to have the same rights and enjoy them. And duty, of course, as we all do. Moreover, a fair and correct management of diversity will be the guarantee of rights and the guarantee of a Euskadi of the future on an equal footing. Being Basque by birth is a circumstantial issue, but the choice of being a welcoming society is the choice that Basques and Basques have to choose in the present and for the future. Eduardo Galeano said that "Since always, butterflies and swallows and flamingos fly away from the cold, year after year, and swim whales in search of another sea and salmon and trout in search of their rivers. They travel thousands of leagues along the free paths of air and water. They are not free, instead, the ways of the human exodus", and that we could say that it is practically an innate fact of the human being. All this, despite the fact that article 14 of the Declaration of Human Rights recognizes the right to free movement of persons. It is also a pity, indeed, that the resulting international pacts for migration restricted and limited that right, and also left that right to the arbitrariness of States. They don't belong to the buruz hitz egiten aria garela. We talk about subjects of rights, formal rights, but not always real rights. We are talking about the maximum, a hundred times said and a hundred times unfulfilled and violated, that no human being is illegal. We hear a lot about migration, but I don't know whether we hear people or not. And from this legislature, which does not therefore represent the reality of the emigrants, beginning from my group, it seems to us very important that everything that is done about this matter should be effected by a wide participation. That's what we've installed in our half-way, and that's the message we're giving to the Basque Law. A question must always be asked with migration: will zergatik etortzen say Europara? Does it have anything to do with our development model, with what we externalize from our development model, with the dispossession of the lands that make companies that have their fiscal headquarters in our territories? Does it have anything to do with climate change? Does it have anything to do with the wars of Libya or Syria, for example? Or with the economic crises? Because, yes, the vast majority are because of the economic causes of this world so unequal that we could be giving – I believe – all morning figures on that so radical inequality that our world has. And by what means do they come? Well, they don't travel like we do, by plane. They travel, they come, they move, they flee through the only ways we leave them with the policy of militarization of borders. They come by the sea, by insecure routes. In recent years, over 10,000 people have died in the Mediterranean over the past five years. Each and every one of those deaths, preventable. And not to mention that, moreover, this militarisation of the borders that the European Union makes, which also has hired these great gendarmes of the sea and of migration such as Erdogan in Turkey or the coastal guard, mafias of Libya, that is the way that we are offering them, in addition to the historical blackmail, also to which the Alawite dictatorship of the Kingdom of Morocco subjected us. And often how do we get them? In the camps of Lesbos, which are used by our institutions, we also help with the union of most of the citizens of Lesbos and of the inhabitants of Europe and of the Basque towns, in the island of Lesbos, which is not so bad, but are responsible for the administration of the camps. What's happening in the Canaries and the problems we've had in the past few weeks, or the deportations: When thousands of people come here, Echarna and we don't see these things, their only destination is deportation. By tearing their rights, for example, by breaking the right of the individualship they have. Besides, deported in many countries where they are not safe, without any security; and goods have often more rights. And in addition, as far as this institutional practice is concerned, in recent years we have witnessed a huge increase in hate speech from the extreme right, an ideological fast food that has unfortunately been bought and is being bought and applied by politicians of the European establishment. An extreme right that tries to confront people and that once again demonstrates its strength with the weak and its weakness with the strong. Therefore, as the agreement that we have signed between the four parliamentary groups reflects, our absolute rejection of these stigmatizing speeches. I think it is important – and also important – that as a Parliament we combat these narratives and also denounce the setback that is taking place within the framework of the European Union in the recognition and protection of the human rights of refugees and migrants. And this is done with practices, with speeches, but also with the reduction of economic, human and material means necessary for humanitarian maritime rescue. For example, our parliamentary group in the European Parliament, in its alternative proposal to European migration policy, proposes the creation of a humanitarian maritime rescue body, which is quite contrary to Frontex's militarisation policy. For example, the Spanish State there does have something to contribute in this area, as it is the only State in the European Union that has a public maritime rescue and also has a strong civil society that also through the "Aita Mari" and the "Open Arms" is working to save people who are at risk of drowning in the Mediterranean. Furthermore, in our agreement, what we are pointing out is that the European Union, far from what it is doing, has a duty to allow safe and legal channels to be opened for those fleeing violent conflicts and harassment, to extend the policy of asylum and protection visas, with the sole aim of ensuring the life and integrity of migrants and refugees in their migration. Akordiorărekin zarraiuz, ezinbastekoa da persononen harrera where is two beat Egypt. Integraziorako lehen pausoa harrera da. Eta, horregatik, Eusko Jaurlaritzari eskatzen Dioguna da harrera-eredu integral bat diseinatzea eta abian jartzea, eta esaten nuen bezala, migranteen part-hartzearekin. Eta puntu honetan bear garrantzitsua da, harrerarekin lotuta, that the fulfillment of access to most rights is done through access to the pattern, as we also approved in the no law proposal of the year 2019. But that has not yet been fulfilled, neither the coordination and leadership role played by the Basque Government, nor by the vast majority of the municipalities in our territories. And in addition, the access to the pattern, as Cristina García de Andoin said, by Ongi Etorri Errefuxiatuak, in a recent article called A room with pattern, "Without pattern we do not exist, and it is the key to access any citizen's right. Regulating is a citizen's obligation, but it is also an obligation for municipalities to register." And that is the mandate, too, which was born in 2019 from this Parliament and which we again endorse today. Because the standard also guarantees universal access to all types of services. And it also facilitates this burden that we have as a society, which is the precariousness for migrant people, which is especially graver for migrant people and women, even more so. The pattern is one of the main elements to break the circle of precariousness. And, therefore, also, what we say – and we said it in 2019 – is that it is essential for the Basque Government to lead the commitment to universal access to all public services and rights such as health and education. Baina, aldi berean, ezinbestekoa da, baita ere, administrazioen arteko koordinazioa, between the State and the autonomous communities. In short, the reception system for applicants for international protection will be managed by the autonomous communities, and we think – and therefore also in this case the complement of the agreement – we also urge from our parliamentary group to Councilwoman Artolazabal, and Minister Escriva, to coordinate; that no one stay out of this transfer of competences, because we are talking about a transfer of competences that comes with the management of the rights of thousands and thousands of people. Measures should therefore continue to be developed to advance and ensure two fundamental things: equal treatment and non-discrimination of migrants and refugees arriving in or transiting through Euskadi. But, in addition to concluding the agreement, I would also like to talk about two more issues which I believe it is essential that the four political forces that we have signed this agreement work beyond this Parliament: one is the regularisation of the people who live with us and who live with us. In this sense, from United We can in the Congress of Deputies we presented a few weeks ago..., months ago, I would say, a non-law proposal in the Congress of Deputies for the regularization of the 600,000 people who live with us and with us in the Spanish State. We are not going to enter..., today is not the day of the attack between us, but of the reflection so that we try to agree, because if we agree with what the Basque Pact for Migration literally says, we have to bet on the regularization of the people living with us; therefore, I believe that these four political forces that we sign this agreement have a great responsibility with this. And finally, the recognition to the people who are here today and to the thousands and thousands of other people of civil society, to the various agents who have worked historically in the Basque Country for solidarity with the migrants, refugees and also with the stateless people who also live, many and many, among us, Ongi Etorri Errefuxiatuak, Zaporeak, Irungo Harrera Sarea, the Federation of Migrants of Bizkaia, the NGO Coordinator of Euskadi, the Migrants Without Borders, Caritas, definitely, all the organizations that we have in Euskadi at the territorial and local level, who have been working all their lives to fight for the rights of these people and, therefore, the best way of that thank you, that these four parliamentary groups, that the Basque Government and all the institutions comply with this non-law proposal and the whole of the regulations adopted in Euskadi in this matter, and therefore we have also included something also with the Law of Humanity that is often the subject of Justice, as far as it is illegal. Eskerrik asko to all and to all, and also thanks for the agreement we have reached.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u34	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, representing the popular-Ciudad groups of Euskals. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u35	Thank you, President. Counsellor, adviser, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, and also the guests who accompany us. Well, I would like to say that I will ask, if the proposer is not inconvenient – he said he is not inconvenient – to vote separately from the points of the compromise amendment in relation to our final position; we will vote yes to some points and abstain on others. Well, it is clear that further progress needs to be made in policies to assist migrants, refugees, and both the European Union with its institutions and the Member States still have important work to do, they have many tasks to do on this issue. For this reason, the main concern of our group remains one that we have already expressed in other debates and in other interventions, and it remains that framework of action, in this case the European Union, its states and the institutions that depend on the states, and both the autonomous communities in this case, with their capacities, or the municipalities as well as so many people who can intervene in this issue of the treatment of the policy of refugees, of migrants, whether it is a coordinated issue or a joint issue within the European sphere, in addition to the European framework of respect for human rights and in this joint possibility also to undertake coordinated work for the protection, reception of people who are leaving, fleeing their countries or seeking their illusion elsewhere for different reasons. It is clear that we have all seen it with pain and suffering, right?, the drama of the Mediterranean, the refugee camps, the complicated situation of the Canary Islands, so many other issues affecting borders, affecting access points, affecting neighbouring countries... They must, of course, be in an essential way reanalysed by the Council, the Commission, the European Parliament, of course, with a greater and more permanent capacity for better protection of people, of people, therefore, as we have to point out, simply, must we not? Also with the capacity to fight against the mafia, against that crime that moves around the phenomenon by provoking within the migrant people, of those who seek refuge, shelter, asylum, so many victims among all those people; that is, all that crime, that mafia, that policy of deception that exists, also has to be neutralized by those who have the capacity to do so. And decisively also by meddling all this, all these policies, with the work of development cooperation aimed at those countries with development needs, or with those missions of pacification of countries with conflicts, that also in collaboration of the States or of the European Union itself with other institutions such as the United Nations; well, in that framework we must continue to deepen, of course, and there are many outstanding issues in all those vectors, in all those areas. Well, our amendment was addressed, once again, we may think that we are obsessive about the coordination of the European Union, but that is what we think: efforts must be joint, united, the European Union, its states and the institutions that depend, that integrate into those states, to make a common policy. I mean, it's the same in Álava as in Burgos, surely, or Logroño in relation to these issues, or in southern France, probably, and we have to share all those issues in a clear way, and that's our obsession with these issues, isn't it? That is to say, do not make policies or design exclusive or own policies with a strong emphasis, because they have to be combined and they have to be confused – that would be the necessary thing – with powerful, active and coordinated policies in the field and in the European framework, right? That's why we disagree a little bit about the Basque reception framework, the framework... No, it's the European framework, it's a general framework. Well, we'll have to work together, we'll have to be part of a European hosting model, won't we? The framework for action where states, their institutions, the European Union and their decision-making bodies develop a common policy. And in that we want to remain integrators of the European Union, of its space, right?, also in these issues and in these policies; not only logically, in economics, in labour or in so many other policies, such as agrarian ones, but we also need to talk here about a framework for European integration. And that's what we trust, in that common effort, because we too are dependent on issues and on the work or actions that we also have to carry out in the policies of reception, shelter, asylum, those other frameworks and those other decisions that are made, right? In that sense, such work must be coordinated. We understood that we could make an amendment in those keys to pick up what the Basque Government proposes as needs and the instruments it sees in that framework of action, what they are or what they would be, or what they should be encouraged and what they are working on – because we also know that the Government is also working in those frameworks, we have already been explained to us – and, that report, in coordination with the other competent administrations, within the framework of the policies of the European Union. That was our whole amendment. As I said before, the events observed since 2015 have only revealed the failure of the European asylum policy, right?, or the lack of solidarity between some Member States due to the categorical refusal of many of them..., of many not; fortunately, of some of them, to accept the allocation system proposed by the Commission. As I said before, shipwrecks in the Mediterranean Sea, refugee camps, what has happened or what is happening in many of them, in many refugee camps like Moria, or what happens with the Turkey Agreement, what happens in the Canary Islands, well, they are issues that are part of something that does not work well, right? We also understand and see with illusion the objective of addressing these difficulties and shortcomings on the part of the European Union. The European Commission recently presented on 23 September a new Pact on Migration and Migration Asylum, finding a consensus at European level on the new approach to a migration pact, which is one of the priorities of the Presidency of Mrs Von der Leyen, is it not? These are issues that need to be deepened and on which we want to be integrated and which we consider necessary in this coordination. Since 2015, also, as I said before, member states in the front line have called for a more lasting solidarity mechanism. The system introduced in summer 2015 at Juncker's proposal did not have the desired effect as it was not respected by many member states (by Hungary, Poland), or very little respected by others such as Austria or the Czech Republic. Well, there are the difficulties we have to be able to overcome. And solidarity is in the spirit of that new, less restrictive, less flexible approach, which is now being done by the European Union. However, unlike the previous ones, the new Asylum and Migration Pact does not provide for the system of distribution of migrants with compulsory quotas by country, but integrates various forms of collaboration and shared responsibility. Well, let's see if that's an element, a meeting point where all the institutions can integrate in a more effective way than it has been so far. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that we will ask, if no one objects, for a separate vote. That's six points. We will vote in favour of the first point in relation to rejecting the concern about the proliferation of speeches criminalizing immigration. It is quite clear that that must be done in any case. We are talking about people, about human rights, about people who suffer, that is, who uses that to criminalise, to unjustly accuse, well, it has to be, of course, denounced and has no place in the European Union and its respect for human rights. We do see that we need to call for policy momentum within the framework of human rights. As I said before, things have not gone well, we must continue to deepen and we must do so together. We will also vote in favour of number three, to urge the Government to move forward in inter-agency coordination with the State for the care and reception of people. It's basic coordination, we said. That is to say, at European level, at Spanish level, coordination is the key element. We shall vote in favour. And we will vote in favour of number six, in relation to the two issues it raises, as it is to recognize the work of the civil society actors who support it – of course, it is commendable that there are people who, of course, use their time and capabilities in this way; I think that is a value we have – and the development of Basque development cooperation legislation. For us it is a basic pillar of development cooperation as an element to neutralize the negative effects of the situation we live in. The other issues, we understand, are part of that obsession with the Basque host model. Well, speaking now, at this moment, of needing European models, integrated models, rather than purely declarative particularist efforts, we understand that it is better to integrate into a model. And on the subject of forming groups of persons who are experts in the field of foreign affairs, yes, but at European or Spanish level, not so much as continuing to form groups, right? We understand that these efforts must be coordinated and coordinated at European and State level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u36	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. That's a peach. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u37	Good morning to everyone and everyone. From Vox we are glad that this debate is coming at the moment. We all know that the Canary Islands are overflowing, absolutely incapable of covering a true avalanche of people coming to their shores by turning the archipelago into the new European mass immigration centre. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two possibilities for discussing immigration: either we are realistic and we try to have a fruitful discussion, attached to the really existing world, or we go for peteneras, for utopian principles, very beautiful written in a document or in a law, but which do not take into account the material, plural and diverse conditions of the migratory reality. On the other hand, it is curious, but I have read all the proposals and I have only seen talk about immigration rights, which, of course, is very good, they have rights, but what about duties and obligations? Does this exist only for the Basque autochthonous? During the preparation of this point I have read concepts such as "universal citizenship". Do you really dare to write that concept after the COVID-19 crisis? Have they not realized that this universal citizenship is not given in the world? Will vaccines be distributed according to the criterion of "A man, a vaccine", or, on the contrary, are the large political blocs negotiating for the unique and exclusively good of their national citizens? What is "universal citizenship" to you? What are we talking about? Who guarantees this universal citizenship when, moreover, the Basques fight to be the first to receive more and better vaccines, regardless of the rest, no longer from Spain, but from the world? Whatever it is to design plans or treat phenomena from false postulates, horizons that don't give, it only serves to calm the consciences of those from the first world who make politics, but it doesn't help at all the people who live in that other place on the same planet, but away from the welfare of the West. Who of those present dares to go to Lesbos and have the defiance of looking into the eyes of the overcrowded and talking to them about universal citizenship and the goodness of Europe? What I will be told is that another model is possible, one that fosters cultural diversity and integration among society as a whole, but once again they confuse desires with reality. For sample, a button: Caritas denounces that it is overflowing. The unemployment rates are in the clouds. The economy does not generate employment, much less quality. Not so much have they discussed the youth employment disaster in our region, and that is the best in terms of Spain's human development index. With this panorama, with this social and political reality, can we talk about welcoming and happy integration or, on the contrary, we perpetuate an absolutely unequal condition, condemning those who welcome them to a life of misery and slavery to the greater glory of the opulent Europeans? From Vox we say, "Enough! No more cynicism!". Let us take this phenomenon of immigration seriously and make policy stick to the ground, without mixing dreams with reality. Let us help to alleviate, as they say in the compromise, at point number six – with which I fully agree – let us help to alleviate in the countries of origin the problems, for otherwise, gentlemen, hatred is inoculated by you who arrive, since your effort to get here has been in vain and you arrive in a country that only offers you more misery, which, moreover, adds to the misery that you already brought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u38	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u39	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, comrades, to follow this show. I wanted to start reading a section of a book from a group of readers in this legislature. I was among the penitents until they brought him here, and, indeed, it is a task to read in a single day, which I strongly recommend to those who have spoken before me and to all the others. "You see that boy sitting there on the bench in front of the wooden chair? That's Ousmane. He arrived in Irun two months ago. It always makes a quarrel at the door, it never relaxes. He doesn't talk all day except to ask for a cigarette, that's all he's forgotten about. Everyone says he's crazy. Yeah, crazy. The word is simple. But I understand. Because I know what the spirit is because I know what it's like to go back, and when it's gone it's not easy to bring it back again. There's a lot of people like that, I've seen them. In Libya, Algeria, Morocco, lost people, desperate, willing to die, but living. To live, to go without knowing, without knowing what to do. It doesn't matter here either. Look, there's Ousmane in his wooden chair today, see? What's he thinking? Will he succeed in forgetting everything he remembers? The wire of the balance is thin, and it is difficult not to interrupt. So today I sat by Ousmane and said, "Don't let me loose, Ousmane, hold on." I've tried to make him change his mind. But she said, "Come, my life won't be solved by now." And I was silent because I understand Ousmane. His words and his lack of words. This suffering is not made for a person. If you suffer like that, you'll get sick too. Your head will leave you on a wooden chair and leave. Maybe forever. People will pass by you and say you're crazy. Yeah, they're gonna use the crazy word like another word. That's easy." In the myth book there are mines, pains of forced corridors, pain of situations driven to operate on this path, pain of various violences living during the corridor. Violence is a source of origin, violence in the way, a nation in which violence has been decided either to remain or to remain. And violence is a great responsibility to us: by the poverty of the original countries, by the influence of the Thracians, by violence, or by the effects of the change of climate; by the close of the violence, by the intervention of the frontiers, by the intervention of Frontex, by the agreement with Turkey, of violence in the country, or in ours, for want of co-ordination, the devices are too small. The Miñan book leaves from the work of the Irungo Har. I imagine them in Lakaxia, in conversation with Dreams and Ibrahim. There I lived the first years of my millitancy: We used to sing the presentation parties at the Irungare, the dance, the "sysing, the muerge." And it was used to sleep the same space a few years ago, when the emigrants, who had passed through the history of the Euskal Autonomia in Erdi, proved that peace and labour could serve many functions. Even those who slept there would like to sing, but they can't. But they have great ties of violence; He who begets helplessness, [He who] does not have the right of a citizen. In corrections, we discuss and discuss the law here a year ago, and we agree with the law, which we claim to be our responsibility, both in time and today, that we have contrivances and that we have a good reception and hospitality. We have a choice and a duty. We have attempted to show that we ought not to produce any parallel system, because universal citizenship, which we defend, ought to have access to the rights of the same people. We have a system of social services, and the object is to have access to other services and preparations which are suggested on the euscal systems of protection. For this purpose, we clearly see that it is necessary for us to examine the difficulties that are in it, and to examine the ways which may be given to this specialised state, and to have a specialized program which will aim at the exercise of it. This is why more than parallel system, a proposition which will affect the means in the system, and which we now agree together. I'd like to highlight the collective contribution of the emigrants who are working for them. We have the same message today that we were willing to deliver in a voice through the initiative of our team and the same words that we have signed today, because it is necessary to promote the work, to put it in value, to make common communications. So thank you all. But today, especially, I'd like to finish with what we said at the first point of the middle course, that we're engaged in dealing with hatreds. And this middle-way wants to be a step ahead of it. We do not accept these violent messages, which enable a greater attack by hatred, because the messages from rationalism allow a sense of impunity, as the aporophobic messages make attacks and murders against those who are to spend the night in the street; or as the Lesbophobic messages allow a person to be struck by a "sbian de mierda," "peporis" and "marcho." I say to those who have suffered the blows of our fellow-citizens and hatred, all the solidarity and support of our party. We can't say that we are the ones who have suffered the beating and the assault of your private life today, but we announce our firm engagement with the mechanism of resistance, that we are fully involved in our partnership. Hug and sweet kiss for Ira. At the end of the book he quotes a very touching moment: "He came back in forty minutes. First the helicopter, then a ship, Salvamento Maritim. I could see it from the color, because they explained it to me in the woods, "the ship that's coming to save you will be like an orange." That was it. We all shouted: "Buzz! A vote! A vote! "I don't know. This scream is an African song. The adventure of the sea is done when it ends well: "Buzz! A vote! A vote! "I don't know. When they find out that a program has come to Europe in Tangiers or in Nador, the news spreads rapidly: A hundred people yesterday, 'Buza! "They sang." "Bozza! "That's my pleasure in the Basque Country. "Pozza! "Let it be cried because we hope, for our responsibility is "Banza! "Pozza! "to become. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Galástegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u41	Thank you, President. Firstly, and on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to thank you for your presence and, above all, for your work on the representation of the NGOs that are accompanying us and that can be following us, and, of course, for the enormous work you are doing, both in terms of humanitarian rescue, in the refugee camps, in the refugee camps, in the setting up of solidarity and reception networks, both in situ and here in our country. So thanks to all those people for their generosity and commitment. Eskerrik asko eta egun on guztioi, ladies and gentlemen. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is a peaceful consideration that migration is a structural phenomenon that is consistent with our existence, which has become a constant in this globalized world that has touched us to live. And that this fact derives, fundamentally, from the transformations, both social and economic or political, that are taking place throughout the world. And it is also true that this century that is already advancing is the one of the outbreak of immigration in all its forms, ranging from the socio-economic gap to the war conflicts, both the new and the stuck. This means that the phenomenon has indeed been exacerbated and has been growing exponentially. But we don't have to be fooled – Mr Martínez said it before too – because the history of humanity is a history of migration and that affirmation, that consideration, is also peaceful. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality we live in – we have said it and we will always say it, not only when we share this type of initiative, we also say it wherever we have to say it – the reality we live in is that many people, women, men and children of all kinds and conditions – I insist on this – have to move from their home, from their vital environment, from the life they have known so far, looking for a better, safer and less uncertain future. And the reality is that many are forced to leave and abandon everything they have, what little they have, because they are forced to flee in order to survive, because they flee areas of conflict that have been engulfed, flee from war, from lack of freedom, from violence, from poverty, from hunger, from death. And, although from a human point of view we do assume that we cannot remain impassable to all these vulnerable and desperate people, who have an absolute lack of prospects for the future, uniquely in contexts of conflict and human rights violations, and we also assume – one more than the other, everything must be said – that a solution to this phenomenon constitutes a democratic principle, an ethical and legal question of compliance with international humanitarian law, and that, therefore, we have to design and plan a common asylum and immigration policy – said Mr Barrio, and I agree with him: a common asylum and immigration policy, aimed at fulfilling the mandate of the right of asylum and the Charter of Fundamental Rights – as always, it is the same thing that always happens, and the reality is that the reality is dull. And the truth is that we are not giving an answer that is neither necessary nor minimally sufficient, so we need to re-emphasize the urgent need to incorporate into the European agenda those humanitarian visas that allow safe access to asylum seekers. We must continue to insist on the need to dignify the reception centres of those people who put their hopes of decent survival, decent survival and future, in our institutions. And, of course, we must insist and continue to insist on the imperative of defining the criteria and systems for the distribution of refugees – which Mr Barrio also mentioned – among European countries on the principles of equality, co-responsibility and solidarity. And when I speak of co-responsibility and solidarity, I speak exactly of co-responsibility and solidarity in fact and in law. And, above all, we also need to insist that it is essential that we recognize – said Mr Martínez Zatón and I fully agree with him – that we recognize, as I say, the value of diversity and that its integration is a challenge and an opportunity for all of us, because there is a reality that is impervious, and that is that all countries, those more prosperous, more egalitarian societies, have managed to integrate and incorporate diversity as the most useful tool for achieving that egalitarian and equitable society that we want for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the future is diversity, we have said it more than once. Equality, among other things, is based on respect for diversity. So, as that one said and using a phrase that is being manipulated, but that's what I want to transfer to you, "We'll either be different or we won't be." A little more than a year ago, ladies and gentlemen, a non-law proposal similar to today's – and also then Elkarrekin Podemos – was discussed, and at that time it reached a very important agreement. Today, fortunately, we have managed to re-edit the same agreement, and even improved. We have improved it, in the light of the demonstrations by the representative of the People's Party, to which we are obviously grateful for its incorporation into the agreement. I believe that, moreover, less than two months ago, when we discussed Bildu's non-law proposal on Moria, we also reached a very broad agreement, and therefore it goes from him that it was foreseeable that we would achieve it today. But, in any case, it is an issue that I believe must lead us to congratulate. I am not going to insist on the literality of the agreement, because, despite its extension... We will not even talk about the extension of the original initiative, because, in the end, it was a little difficult to manage and digest, more than anything, because it allowed us to disperse a little. I believe that the final text is much more assimilable, and therefore gives far more concrete mandates. I believe that what the agreement does is, in fact, to collect the spirit and the letter of the social pact for immigration, which implies nothing but a shared commitment to coexistence between different people. It plans the development and design of an integral model of reception and, among other things, recognizes, indeed – because we are not an island – the need to move forward in inter-institutional coordination with the Government of Spain, as it cannot be otherwise. And, indeed, this study will have to be carried out and it will have to be negotiated between the departments or in the Joint Transfer Commission, where appropriate, and in accordance with the agenda with the Government of Spain, the transfer, where appropriate, as I say. I believe that it is also right to develop the Fifth Action Plan in the area of citizenship, interculturality and immigration 2018-2020, but, indeed, I believe that it will also be up to this legislature to make an assessment of that plan, to draw the conclusions that will be drawn so that, as provided for in the government agreement signed between the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, the Sixth Plan will be presented throughout this legislature, even with another series of actions that are also envisaged from the point of view of the analysis of migration in our Community, which are provided for in that government agreement. Well, I'm gonna finish it now. The only thing I want to transfer to you, ladies and gentlemen, is that Euskadi is not really an island, nor is it a direct recipient of a direct migratory flow, but the truth is that here we give a service, we have a system of social services that endures any comparison. We also have a vast network of organizations, agents, well-known backgrounds and experience. And, moreover, I believe that we are generally a committed and supportive citizen. And with these limbs, and as Günter Grass pointed out – I am also going to make mentions and quotes – I think we should not be so afraid of immigration, because reality shows us that "all the great cultures arose from forms of intertwining." So let's get contaminated, that's very good. And then, I will not be able to resist paraphrase Gabriel Celaya in that poem that Paco Ibáñez sang and that all those that we treasure more than half a century on the safe land that we remember: diversity, ladies and gentlemen, "is a weapon loaded with the future". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians. Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. And may the guests who came to us today. Well, I want to start my interview with a news story that's good for me. The next headline that Tuesday is able to read in the paper: "Euskadi is more tolerant to strangers than ever." That's what the Borometer in the view says. The Basque Society has always been generous with the arrival and reception of strangers, and we may say that this surrender, owing to the covid-magemand, has improved, considering the results which this barometer has given us. The chief physician of the field said so when he was about to examine the results of this barometer. The Pandemia has expressed the first conclusion that we can conclude by the reflection of an understanding and solid society of euplacals. And now we may say that the extensive agreement we have obtained in this legislature is the reflection of the euscal society, no doubt. We have spoken more than once of the figure of the emigrants and refugees, on the one hand, of the defence of human rights, and on the other side of the mechanism of their attention and reception. I think the topic we're bringing to this tribe today makes them both, don't you think? On the one hand, the defence of human rights above all, and the worthy reception of all the persons who are in our country, must, in our opinion, be understood in the frame of a stable Basque system. I do not think it is too much, as Mr Martínez said, to re-express our deep rejection and concern for the proliferation of destructive and racist discourses that criminalise migration throughout the world. We have already done so in the agreement reached by the majority of this House on 5 December 2019 on the creation of a Basque system for the reception and protection of the human rights of migrants and refugees. This week I had the opportunity to read an interview with Carlos Martín Beristain, René Cassin Prize for Human Rights 2020. And he, in that interview, explained it very clearly, in my opinion. He said that on many occasions, when we talk about conflicts over human rights, many people, instead of asking, "Hey, what do you think about this?" You, whose side are you on?". That is the problem, that many times, rather than qualitatively entering the conflict, some and some remain in the rear and prefer simply to position themselves. Reminds me of that famous commercial that said, "Error." Mrs. Martinez: mistake. I continue with a sentence that I could read in that same interview to Mr.Martin Beristain: "No wound is cured without the balm of respect." And yes, many of those migrants who flee their countries do not do so willingly; they do so because of a question of survival, a question of dignity, and we have to welcome them with affection and respect. As the letter of presentation of the Social Pact for Migration stated, "to offer what we would like to receive". And I think we all agree on that. And so we have done at the same time in our middle course, when we want to put on the help and co-operation of civil society, refugees, and emigrants, inasmuch as our guests are here to-day, taking advantage of the work which they do in other countries, and the confusion of the different networks from the Basques. Many are the helpers which have been carried along with the eucalyptic institutions, and we believe they deserve a special importance; hence the reason for our penetration in the middle. We also mention in middle-class, citizenhood, Culturality, and Immigration V. Plan of Jardu. We understand that it is a base frame to receive the emigrants and the refugees, and we believe that this agreement, which we have obtained, is in accordance with this, at least from our point of view. Esparru ezberdinetako hainbat proposed age garden-emmu barneratzen will say aipatu dudan plan. Beste askoren artean, gaurkoan hona dakartzagun bi aipatu gura ditut, bereziki, bai erdibideko honetan sartu ditugunak eta talderen batzuek ere beren hasierako emendakinetan, proposemenean barneratu zituztenak ere: alde battik, make up a group of persons experts in the field of foreigners to advance in the reflection and analysis of the legal framework that allows to reach the maximum of the autonomous competences in the field of immigration, alienation and coexistence. We believe that this will promote the reception, care, integration and protection of the human rights of migrants and refugees. On the other hand, further progress is being made in the development of the measures envisaged in this action plan and in the framework document of the Basque Government to guide in a shared manner the social, political, interinstitutional and interdepartmental response to the humanitarian crisis facing refugees at European borders. We consider, in turn – as I said earlier, and we take this into account in our transactional – that the reception of migrants and refugees in Euskadi must be carried out within a comprehensive Basque reception framework, in collaboration with and with the participation of social institutions and actors, in particular the Forum for the Integration and Participation of Immigrant Citizenship in Euskadi, in pursuit of a dignified and comprehensive reception and care. I don't want to prolong the different measurements that M. M.M.M.M.s. and evangelizes in the correct reception of emigrations, but I think it must be confessed that the love of Eusko has always been in the first row in every advance made for the defence of all human rights. But with the medium we have acquired at this day, I should like to remind you, and I think it probable that some one before mentioned the arrangement which was taken in this affair on the 29th of October, on the 29th of this legislature, where we required the origin of a specific emigration and aslus. The vast majority of this Chamber is joined to this point of Citizenship, Culturality, and Immigration V. We believe that he will be able to obtain a more dignified and more extensive reception from the hands of those objects which he has penetrated into the plan. The origin of this position in the end of the happy umbrella is already in progress, and therefore we have not seen it on our side as necessary in the treaty, in the middle of it, but I think it's important to mention it, even because we all agree to it. If I am to say the truth, I believe the intention of those who have been in this agreement has been from the beginning a builder, that the endeavour to make an agreement has been made on all sides, and that in the fundamental ideas, besides all agreeing, we have advanced another step. To me, in the defence of human rights, I think it is a consistent position in which we should have the several groups of half-breeds in the wrong myths of the emigrants and refugees. It is, as has been shown, not only upon grounds, but on grounds that most of us are agreed. And, to finish, I particularly wish to thank Mr. Martín, from the beginning, although he had not been long, since he had at last expressed the disposition to make an arrangement. And so does Mrs. Houseboy, even though we don't have direct communications, well, we've finally managed to do something through everybody. I hope we find ourselves on the road again in the defence of the rights of all the persons who wish to have a worthy life in our country. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. It's the answer time. Together, Poedemus. Yes, from there. It's your word, Mr Martínez Izón.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u45	Thank you. Well, as I said before, first of all, thank all the teams you've signed. And also the statement or paraphrase of Mrs Gallástegui is very timely; although she is not 50 years old, we have heard Paco Ibáñez at my house and have, of course, read Gabriel Celaya. And some clarifications. Mr Barrio, first of all, for our part, there is no problem with the point vote, of course. And, man, the point is that when we try to bring the debate Euskadi, Spain, Europe, is that it doesn't take place, that is, at the end of Europe has its powers – we refer to those powers – the state has its powers – which, by the way, as Mrs Artolazabal said, in short, the competence of the management of the reception system for applicants for international protection is going to be managed – in addition, by a ruling of the Supreme Court – by the autonomous communities, and, of course, we have to develop our own model – and the Spanish State, of course, has competence in border management, in which also from the Spanish Government and from the Congress of Deputies we have made our proposals, as it did, of course, also in another competition that, in this case, is state, also, as it is from the regularization of the people living with us and ourselves, that I insist that it is one of the most urgent tasks we have in this area, and that governments, at other times, of the People's Party and of the Socialist Party, we hope today, that we have the four forces that we have signed it. And I would like to put an end to the statements made by Mrs Martinez. Here we are not talking about each other, we are not talking about facing people and, obviously, universal citizenship is quite questioned, but not precisely by the groups we are supporting, but by groups like yours, which violate the rights where they rule or where they express their speeches. We are talking about human rights, and yes, there are human rights for all human beings, regardless of where they live. Because who is the one who encourages the small crowds – the small ones, because the majority of Canarian society has developed an extreme solidarity with the migrants who have landed in the Canary Islands –? Who has encouraged the small crowds in the Canary Islands on social networks? His political party. Who has encouraged the beatings of immigrant people in Lesbos camps? His friends from Greece. And who is the one who encourages hate speech where he rules? Well, your friends like Mr Orban or the Polish government. Here we are not talking about human beings, about each other, we are talking about four political formations, and also some that will support part of the points, that the difference we have is that we are democratic political formations, and you stay out of that definition, but you alone, the others are here. You're the one who's out, you're the one who's out, you're the one who's out, you're the one who's out, you're the one who's out, you're the one who's out, you're the Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u46	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Misto's got a word. It's your word, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u47	What I have to say is that we continue to inciting that the flow of migration is not a homogeneous whole, as they want to make clear here. There is a big difference between some migrants and others. There are different realities of each human being arriving in our country, there is a mistake in the approach of generalizing the migratory flow. First, as I have said before, let us help the countries of origin to improve their situation and thus not be allowed to leave their countries. It is curious, Mr Martínez, that you are talking to me about human rights. Of course we respect them! We respect them very well, not as those you sign with, who have made it very clear that they have never defended human rights. There's just a little bit of history to do. It is also true that your group also encourages all those violent demonstrations against those who do not have the same thought as you. Let's get out of the way and get to the heart of the news: don't you encourage violence against whom you don't think the same way you do? I think so. I have nothing more to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u48	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Barrio must take the word from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u49	Thank you, President. Briefly, from the seat; very briefly. It is normal, Mr Martínez, that part of the management of the issues relating to the phenomenon of migration and the reception of refugees is attributed to the autonomous communities, as well as to other institutions, such as the municipalities, in the area of their competence they also have to do and to favour all these programmes, but what I am referring to is the great policy, the great framework, the great framework of collaboration and cooperation between states, between citizens; let it be known, that it is known, that it also works, because it is the clear reference for the good and to combat the bad. That is, I believe that this is the fundamental element, that, logically, what happens in Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa is no different from what happens in Cantabria or what happens in Languedoc, surely, or what happens in some other regions or other provinces of Europe or Spain. In other words, I believe that what I am talking about, which I am sometimes a bit obsessive, is that coordination and cooperation have to be at that level, and then management, of course, but in that area of the European framework of action, that is the fundamental element, is it not? And also, and as another matter, because we all quoted someone this morning, I saw a report last night, on the second Spanish Television, and I saw Pope Francis talking about immigration precisely, what is happening in the Mediterranean, what is happening on our borders, and, of course, he is absolutely right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u50	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Houseboy, that's where. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u51	I'd like to point out the comparison that I was finishing the other day, we'd have to stay with the "Baza" that looks like water. "That cry of the Basque People 'Poza! "That our end is to build the Basque People of the People, who live happily, and happiness always begins with the guarantee of rights. That's what we've located in the middle of this deal. I would further declare, whosoever shall make one, and who will draw him out of these discourses. Because they are actions beyond discourse, beyond actions, because they are profound thoughts beyond actions, and we cry out in that profound thought, "Welcome, refugees" to make a reality in our country. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. Gallástegui, in fact, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u53	We were talking about an omission because I only referred to the fact that we have reached an agreement, but I did not thank the spokespersons, the spokespersons, both the proposing group and the amending groups that have participated in the agreement. I have not thanked them for their willingness, willingness, proactivity so that we can reach this agreement, so "Nobleza obliges".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u54	Mrs. Galástegui, thank you. Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u55	I'm short, too. I want to tell Mr Barrio that you say that what happens in different places, as it can be here, in Burgos, in Madrid, is the same. Yes, I agree that it can be the same, but I believe that the predisposition of the society of each place and, above all, of the governments of each place, I believe it is not the same. We have, for example, the case of cooperation by the Basque Government: subsidies of EUR 32 million have been called for NGOs, for example, compared with EUR 24.7 million at state level, so I agree that the same can happen in different places; what happens is that the predisposition of these different places is different. And I'll end by thanking you again, all of us who have made the deal, and, as I said, we'll meet again on the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. It's over and we're going to vote together with Podemos-Nozzerz, Euskal Socialists, EH, and the Eubertarians signed semi-correction. The ETP has asked me to vote separately (1, 3, 6, and the rest), and Mrs. I guess there's no problem... All right, so we can vote first and third points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 73; the opposites 1; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u57	So the first and third points have been accepted. Next, we vote the second, the fourth, and the fifth. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the parties are 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 68; the contrary is 1. Absence, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u58	So the second fourth and fifth points have been accepted. And finally, we vote for the sixth point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 74; the opponents 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u59	So the sixth point is unanimously accepted. Third point in theme list: "Modio, Carmelo Barrio Barroja Eusula, a member of the Ciudadans, a member of the COVID-19-of having new activities in pharmaceuticals. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u60	Good morning, again. Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I will be brief, because the interest of this parliamentary group in relation to this issue is that we have – we express it in the question we make to the adviser – all the health and health resources available for the actions that will be taken and that are being carried out in the containment of the pandemic, in the analytical work, in the control of the pandemic, in the fight for the progressive disappearance of the virus and its effects, all the resources available to combat that virus. And in that sense it is the pro-active approach of our inquiry, which now becomes a motion. That is why we have taken that approach and now we are bringing it to this plenary. We tabled a motion to urge the Basque Government to draw up – and this was where the action plan was set up – an action plan to organize the system and the necessary requirements for community pharmacies to be able to draw up with the Department of Health, with regard to the implementation of rapid tests for SARSCoV2 detection – and we were also talking about the vaccination campaign of society – so that they can develop all available health resources in the event of new waves, contagions or general programmes of immediate vaccination of the population or activities that the health system may have to carry out and in which it needs all its available resources. We made that motion as a result of the inquiry, and I have to say that I have to thank the amendments that have been made to it (the amendments made by Elkarrekin Podemos, the amendments made by EH Bildu and the amendments made by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party), because I believe that they are perfectly complementary, in line with what I have said in this approach of being able to use and have available all the necessary resources. The amendment by Mr Hernández, by Elkarrekin Podemos, talked about designing and planning the future vaccination campaign against COVID-19 by reinforcing Osakidetza with the necessary material and human resources to ensure that vaccination is carried out from the Basque public health system, avoiding adding workloads to the staff. Okay, I agree with that, but what I'm saying is perfectly complementary to what you're saying, perfectly complementary, because it's already done and it's already done on other issues, that is, it's perfectly complementary, and I completely agree with what you're saying. In addition, "... ensure that the sale of antigen test pharmacies does not result in dysfunctions with the public strategy of surveillance, detection, notification and management of cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection". It's pretty clear. I completely agree, because there can never be dysfunctions. It is the other way around: what we are trying to do and what we are trying to do is to have aid, cooperation and collaboration, and that all this is for the benefit of people. I mean, I totally agree with what you said. Similarly, I fully agree with what Mrs Ubera said in her entire amendment. Of course. The first point, "... show thanks to the pharmacists and pharmacies of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country for the role they have played in monitoring the health of citizens during the pandemic". Completely agree. It is an unobjectible fact, that is, that is what has happened. Thanks to the fact that we have also had this important structure of pharmacy offices and well-prepared professionals we have also been better able to combat the effects of the pandemic. There is no doubt, that is, that thank you which has then been moved to the compromise amendment, of course, is yours and it is to be thanked. And his second point is that "Parliament urges the Department of Health to agree with CAPV pharmaceutical colleges on the role of pharmacies and the health strategy for the prevention of SARScoV2". Completely agree, that is, it is a complementary part of what I have tried to say also in relation to what may have to be done and with whom they will be available to do what. Whatever it takes, right? And what, in this case, the Department of Health understands that it can do in collaboration with other institutions or other services, such as pharmacy offices. I fully agree with what you have also said in that amendment. And I fully agree with what was also said in the amendment by the groups that support the Government: "If it is necessary to help health resources outside the public health system to address the testing of COVID-19...", if it is necessary, well, that this feasibility of these should be analysed after examining reports and taking into account the European Centre for Disease Prevention and WHO. I mean, totally okay. That's what it's about, having plans, thinking that community pharmacies can give us a hand, isn't it? And that is so, that happens in other parts of the world, in other countries, in relation to that capacity, right now, with some issues that have to do with the tests, with how it is collaborating. And, well, in other autonomous communities there are also plans and programmes that can go in that direction. What I want to say, of course, is that it is not about imposing anything, much less; it is about opening up frameworks of collaboration and cooperation. That was our initiative, and in this case with the pharmacies, for what will continue to happen in relation to this issue. We were talking about two key elements: the control of the infection, the tests, and the possibility of doing the vaccination campaign, if any, for the needs of the same campaign, and knowing that there are professionals perfectly prepared for it. For us, that was the approach, that is, we have also seen – and I recalled it in the interpellation – in other places, very close to here, how these tests are done, how they are developed here close, on the border, next door; we saw it in an interesting report from a media outlet. We also see that what we are asking for as a possibility and as a channel of collaboration is also validated by the decisions of the European Commission and Brussels, with all the guarantees and with all the plans regarding operationality, capacity, training, all those issues... Of course I do. We see that some autonomous communities are preparing for this. The pharmacies, moreover, by their own capacity and because they, through their schools, say so, are prepared and willing to continue to assume responsibilities, health functions, and to do so, moreover, in collaboration – as the compromise amendment then refers to – with the autonomous communities or with the governments and with the departments of Health or Health. I think that's very clear. I believe that that is the purpose, of course, of continuing to move forward, that purpose of thinking about collaboration, the application of all resources or at least the possibility that they may be available. That is the fundamental element. We also referred in the inquiry to how they raise from the professional sphere, in this case from the Scientific Society of Family and Community Pharmacy, how they raised an interesting document in relation to answering a question: why do they perform rapid tests for the detection of SARS-CoV-2 coronaviruses also in community pharmacies? And for that question he asked there were ten points or ten related answers: because today it is necessary to stop the spread of COVID-19, and he talked about that they were willing and were a fundamental element, moreover, for their training, to do so; because the national health system is under great care pressure. Well, there are times of great pressure, others of less pressure, but there are times of great pressure where they can participate too and they can be willing to do so, and the system also knows that it can count on them. They also said that because the pharmacist is a university health professional, trained to perform these tests – of course he is – and that, moreover, at this time, training actions are already being implemented in relation to the vacunology or immunology in the performance of rapid tests in the VOCID-19, they are doing so; that is to say, in this sense, not only university and professional training, but that new courses are being implemented also to be better and more trained. He also said – why do it – because they are health facilities that are already part of the national health system, making the non-hospital pharmaceutical benefit effective for the population. One more objective element: because there is a growing demand for citizens in pharmacies, he wonders why citizens are interested. Also because the network of community pharmacies has a proximity, accessibility and coverage of 99.9% of the population. In other words, it is an establishment of absolute proximity to these issues. Because the population trusts the community pharmacist, and that's true and we all know it. Because many pharmacies already provide similar services to the population. We were talking about HIV tests the other day and about others that have to do with other pathologies in relation to what pharmacies control. Because a large number of community pharmacists and pharmacies are demanding it to collaborate, there are some who think so, who can collaborate, that is, there is willingness. And because they are in network with the national health system and the Basque health system and they can ensure the traceability of test results. And, as we said the other day too, issues that have to do with data privacy and data defense. There are a number of issues that I believe are positive and that make it clear that the system can be prepared, right? That is why, and after the introduction of the initiative, given the compromise amendment tabled by the signatory groups (EH Bildu, the PNV and the Socialist Party), I will logically vote in favour of it, because I believe it says and collects what I raised in relation to some issues. "The Basque Parliament expresses its gratitude...", as it said before, and recalled the part of the amendment of EH Bildu. Well, that's yours, it's justice, so it's very well-received and you appreciate that contribution. And in the second, that "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government that in the event of the need for the assistance of health resources outside the public health system to address the detection tests of the COVID-19..." –well, fully agree – "...consensus with the pharmacists interested in collaborating the organizational model necessary to achieve efficient cooperation in the fight against the COVID-19". That's what I meant in relation to the tests. And then he was also talking about the possible involvement in vaccines, but it's coming from him too, it's coming from him. In the same way that happens, they can also be prepared for the other, that is, they could also say "to agree with the pharmacists interested in collaborating to achieve efficient cooperation in the fight against COVID-19, not only in testing but also in vaccines." They're ready. But I understand that this initiative has had this expression, it is going to be approved, of course, in an interesting text. I like it, it seems to me that it recognizes the pharmacists and that it also sees the willingness to continue agreeing with them possible actions. We are not talking today..., we were asking that we also be at the point of analysis on the issue of vaccines for their approach, but it is possible that we will come up with it next month, right?, so, in that sense, I would like to thank the contributions and I will vote in favour of the compromise amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u61	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, represent the Podemos Anther Group. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u62	Thank you. Mr Barrio, the truth is that we, on the other hand – I am sorry to differ from what you said at the beginning of your speech – do not consider your initiative and what we have presented to you to be compatible, because we do not share your initiative, and I will also try to explain myself. And it does draw some attention to the fact that you have stated that what you bring to the House today is compatible with the amendments that we have made in all groups and have not reached an agreement with any of them. Of course, we would not have been able to reach an agreement with our group because we do not agree with what they are proposing. We do not share his initiative on either of the two issues he raises; in relation to tests, let alone in relation to vaccination in pharmacies. Pharmacies, as well as the professionals who work in them, do, of course, play a valuable role that we all recognize, but the tests of COVID-19, in our opinion, should not be carried out outside the health system, the public system, Osakidetza. And, of course, the application of vaccines, much less. Our position is totally frontal to what you are proposing. Regarding the performance of antigen tests, we think that like PCR, in Osakidetza, from Osakidetza. We believe that his initiative, or initiatives of this kind, opens the door to the possibility that antigen tests for the monitoring and control of the pandemic will be carried out in pharmacies and commercialize what is the fight against a virus, against a pandemic that we have on top. We do not think it would be good news to give up the public service in order to promote private interests, which is what the proposal you are proposing could be. Surely you will call this public-private collaboration. We know that we do not agree with such approaches. Community pharmacies do have a public function, but we must not forget that we are talking about private businesses. To promote the demand for care – overflowing, yes – in public primary care to push the population to make that demand in the private system, which is what we think would happen, we say no. The adviser, who is present, has on some occasion stated that Osakidetza is prepared for vaccination, and therefore we also believe that bringing this initiative now is not a serious approach. Antigen tests play an important role in the public strategy of surveillance, detection, notification and management of cases of infection of this virus carried out by Osakidetza, the public system. Including these tests in pharmacies can only lead to complications and dysfunctions. We do think that what you propose would bring dysfunctionalities. Antigen testing should not be done in pharmacies because it is not a clinical environment. The user, who in some way, in the commercial sense, would become a customer in this case, can refuse, moreover –depends on how things are done – to have the information transmitted to epidemiology, and we are talking about the control of a pandemic. In the face of the pandemic, with so many deaths and sequelae, it seems to us that one should not walk with jokes to promote private medicine and not attend to public health. We will not comment on the risk of contagion without dirty and clean environments, in pharmacies, difficult to apply, waste management, risk to pharmacies staff, etc. Our group – and we have also defended it in other parliaments – does not even see the benefit of selling antibody tests in the pharmacy offices, apart from the obvious – that is obvious – economic benefit for the manufacturing houses. That is certainly another debate, but what they are proposing today, we do not think it would facilitate the work of Osakidetza. On the contrary, we believe that it would generate more burden for primary care and create dysfunctionalities. And it could also break equity in public health. For the time being, as far as we know, that kind of drug test is paid for. As I know you are not going to listen to me and I am not going to convince you, Mr Barrio, I am going to say what the College Medical Organization says, which advises against testing antigens in pharmacies, since, from your point of view, they are not suitable places, because, among other things, they can match people infected with coronavirus with others who are going to buy other products. The place where the sample is taken must be the right one; a person with symptoms cannot be in the same place as a person who, for example, is going to buy milk for his baby. Antigen tests are positive in the first days of infection, when the person has a high amount of virus and is more contagious, so the sample should be taken in a place where he does not share space with healthy people. The performance and interpretation of these tests must also be done with the appropriate professionals. Even the nursing staff would not be the most suitable for this, as expressed by the Basque union of laboratory technicians, which claims that the laboratory technicians and techniques are the best prepared professionals to process, visualize, validate and record rapid antigen tests in Microbiology laboratories. Therefore, you propose to go further and be done by pharmacists and pharmacists – we disagree – and also, as I say to you, by community pharmacies, which actually provide a public service and are considered to be in the public interest, but do not cease to be private businesses. And in relation to the involvement of pharmacies in vaccination, our opinion is more of the same, or I would say worse: we are even more opposed, if possible, to vaccination with regard to this virus – in addition, new – can be done in pharmacies. These are not the right places for vaccination, Mr. Barrio. What is important is to ensure that Osakidetza has all its own resources to carry out the vaccination, without having to resort to private agents or actors outside the public system of Osakidetza. That, in our view, is the obligation of Osakidetza and the Basque Government. And that means – also, in our opinion – that Osakidetza should be strengthened, as our amendment says, which you say you also share, and it is possible, I do not deny, indeed. I do not know what you are going to vote on our amendment, but I tell you that they are not compatible. We would not have been able to compromise because we do not accept, we cannot include what you propose, in what we do not agree with. Reinforce Osakidetza, yes, above all, because we continue to listen to the workers who are saturated. So, we are also concerned that we are going to face such an important vaccination campaign with an ongoing labour dispute and a new strike call in Osakidetza for January. The Government should put its batteries here and resolve that conflict before the start of the vaccination campaign, especially because one of the things they are saying is that there is saturation in the professionals. But the solution to that, in our view, should not be to carry out the tasks by removing them from the system, but it should be, if necessary – surely, or the same – the Government considers that it is not necessary to reinforce it because it is enough; we believe that it is – but in any case, what must be guaranteed is that it is done from Osakidetza. That is what we put forward in our amendment, which, as you see, is not compatible with what you are proposing, Mr Barrio. We are going to vote against your initiative. I am glad that, on the other hand, ours seems appropriate and timely. We do not agree with that model of using pharmacies for antigen testing, and, of course, we do not agree at all with using pharmacies in vaccination processes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u63	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u64	Good morning, everyone. Ma'am apple, good day, and the rest of the departments. First, we want to thank the chemists for today, because we often forget them, and because the function which they fill in the community is important: because the role which they play on guard is essential to the community and unreproachable. Not just in the pandemian, but out of pandemy. And in the pandema, from the very beginning, they were helping, helping, helping, helping the community... And it's true, they've filled the important paper and they're filling it across the pandema. So let's make our confession. For this reason, at the first point of our proposal, as Mr. Barrio said, we thanked all the chemists and wanted to thank them for all the work they're doing. Secondly, it would have pleased us to have the discussion to-day, after the representatives of the pharmaceuticals had come to this legislature after they had heard it. As you know, we've asked for their openings, but unfortunately these revelations have not taken place. And we think it's important to listen to people, to exchange all views, and to hear each other, right? And, in our opinion, it's a pity that this discussion was given before it took place. We must tell you, Mr. Barrio, that we don't share vaccine at the bottles, we don't think it's the best place for vaccination. We don't yet know the criteria of the insertion campaign, the calendar, even though we've been asked for a long time before, the EAE advice Board of EA. At the very beginning of the legislation we questioned about the insertion campaign; we were told that the Government was working, but it is clear that the criteria are derived from Europe, which is marked by the standards of Europe. The Government of Madrid knows little, and knows very little, so that the US Government can't tell! Everything comes to us by means of means of communication, and even if we know nothing, it is true that this government has said that before summer the whole population of EAE will have been included, hasn't it? It seems to us, then, that such expressions may be dangerous when we do not know how things will go, when we know not the calendar, and know not the criteria. At least, what we want is that before the insertion campaign begins, things seem to be moving in Europe and in 2021 to decide something about it. We'd like to be able to reach the head of the medical department before the insertion campaign is set up in this legislature and share the criteria with the members of the legislature. With experimenting, besides in insertion, we must follow the people, and set up criteria there, we must give instructions, and we think that the work which follows is important and that there is to be a plan to be defined. And so, Mr. Hernandez, you were talking about the design of the graft campaign, and quite agreeing with it, but we realized that today we had to do with pharmaceuticals, medicines, and the function of fulfilling them. We think, then, that we ought to deal with it entirely. And I'd like to encourage you to take the initiative on this subject, and to see what you've made at the first point, we could also exchange and work on another proposition. And here we all agree with you: even when the recording campaign begins, the Ossace will have to be strengthened, because in the end several functions have to be added over the Osar, they have to work several jobs: Face the COVID, resist all that is not COVID, the insertion of the flu, the insertion of the COVID, several more campaigns, not other tasks? And that, with all the resources we have, can't be resisted. On the other hand, on the other hand, the propanist asked for tests to identify active infections in the bottles. We think that we can talk in this area, we can discuss it. We have many concerns about this subject, as Mr. Hernandez has said: how space can be organized, the connection with the health system, the consequences that it can have... Hence, we think that if we are to act in pharmaceuticals, we ought to be in the administration of the public health system, in the strategy of public health. Well-defined, well-ordered, well coordinated with the health department, the Osarides, and, as you have well said, out of business or economic ends. But it can happen as it did in the first wave, right? The health department needed private resources. And it may happen that there are times when there's even a need for drugs, isn't it? Then we think that nothing must be rejected, that we must consider all things. Besides, it's true, too, that the evolution that will be given around the test will be enormous, and an evolution has already been given and it's being given. Then, even in this evolution, we must consider certain accounts, how they are made and what we can use them to do. And we think that we must talk about this, that we must examine it, and that we must hear the chemists, at least we must examine it. And in this sense we have accomplished and have obtained the intermediate proposition with groups supporting the government, because it seems to us that we must hear and examine the views of all the world, at least opinions. And, as I have said, you already know the agreement we have obtained from it, Mr. Barrius himself has read the divisional proposal. And that the eternal should become clear, and thus receive itself even in the middle, if the public health system were ever to be required, and always according to the criteria of the organization of worldly health. And, well, considering all this, we think that we must consider all the ways, and that we must consider all the resources we have, at least that it is important at the moment of meeting a pandemy. And from us, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the Government, parliamentarians and parliamentarians. I believe that, first of all, we need to clarify some issues in order to focus the debate fundamentally, because nobody here is questioning, much less, neither the goodwill nor the willingness of pharmacists to carry out their good work and their good work also in the field of the fight against COVID. That is not the debate, because we all agree that pharmacies are a crucial agent of health promotion and because we all believe that collaboration with them must remain very close and that this is essential if we are to develop the best service to citizens. But, forms of collaboration, there are many, and that is what we propose here today. In the initiative that has been brought to us by the People's Party, what arises is the possibility that these pharmacy offices will play an active role in what would be the carrying out of antigen tests or in the vaccination campaign itself. And here, in this there is a debate. Not in the above, but in this there is a debate, which is an open debate, and which today, in this House, we are also going to develop. But I believe – and therefore I said that I was going to try to make the areas of the debate concrete – that the debate itself is purely about the very use of antigen tests, not whether or not they have to enter – if it would be good – pharmacies or operators outside the public system, but in what situations it is advisable to develop these antigen tests. And I think we have to launch an idea – and I am going to do it from here today – because I think it was also unclear in the inquiry by Mr Barrio. There is an idea that we have to discard: the European Union is under no circumstances promoting the massive use of antigen tests; under no circumstances is that not the case. Because in the media you could be moving that idea, and that's not the case, that's not the reality. In full control, Mr Barrio mentioned two recommendations from the European Council. I brought them here. And I really like to go to the fountains, to perfectly understand what is being talked about. In the first of these, on 28 October, point 12 tells us that member states are increasingly considering the possibility of using rapid or header tests (e.g. antigen tests), mainly in medical settings. First point. In point 13 it literally says: "As the WHO emphasizes, while rapid antigen testing can provide useful solutions for the diagnosis of Covid infection in a number of situations and scenarios, its clinical performance is not yet optimal and should be acted with caution." Point 14: "Among the existing models...", she talks about the minimum sensitivity requirements that Mrs Sagardui told us in the inquiry; she says that they are useful when the ability to access PCR tests is temporarily limited or when the extent of response times prevents their clinical usefulness. Then, this takes place in the following recommendation, which is that of November 18. In this recommendation of 18 November, the European Commission reiterates each of the above points, informs us that effectiveness is not contrasted for use in asymptomatic people (point 13 of the resolution) and offers us an entire point, which I believe is the most remarkable, concerning the environments in which the use of antigen tests may be recommended. And it tells us: first, when there is a temporary limited availability of PCR tests; second, when it is carried out in environments with a positive proportion equal to or greater than 10%; third, at the time of admission to health centres or when a focus is applied on the conduct of tests to an entire population (e.g. in a local community), as well as in other situations of high prevalence – and I think this is very important – and in the context of restrictive measures aimed at detecting people with a high potential for community transmission and reducing the pressure of health centres. Both recommendations say many more things, which were explained to us by Councilwoman Sagardui and in which I am not going to touch, but I believe that so far this serves to give us an idea that, at least for the time being, antigen tests are recommended for a number of well-defined situations; for example, for situations where they are already being used in Euskadi, and in no case – I repeat – the EU is advising on the mass use of antigen tests in general to deal with the spread of the virus. Having said that, and therefore having made clear this important prevention, we can begin to appreciate the possibility proposed by the People's Group with regard to its possible implementation in pharmacies. But in order to analyse this possibility we must start from the scenario that I have just put forward in accordance with the Council of Europe's own resolutions, which are certainly the recommendations of the WHO. And in this scenario, first of all, while it is true that conducting antigen tests in pharmacy offices would increase diagnostic capabilities, it must be borne in mind, in accordance with the recommendation of the European Commission for the use of the rapid antigen tests of last November 18th, that the manufacturer's instructions for use should be strictly followed and carried out during the five days following the onset of symptoms or seven days after exposure to a confirmed case of COVID-19. On the other hand, while the network of pharmacy offices may be a Community resource in early detection activities in active COVID infection, it should be stressed that the above-mentioned European recommendation states that rapid antigen testing should be carried out by health and laboratory personnel trained in the conduct of sampling, testing, interpretation of results and subsequent communication to public health authorities. Only in this way can it be ensured that the sampling is correct, the products are adequate, the conduct of the test does not entail risks for the professional, patients or third parties, and that there is a correct interpretation of the results and the measures to be taken. In this regard, it should be ensured that the distribution of the product is for use by healthcare professionals and cannot currently be distributed to pharmacy offices lacking clinical analysis laboratories. Similarly, in the case of these products, their sale to the public and via telematic means is prohibited. In short, the debate is not so much whether or not pharmacies should play an active role in conducting the antigen test. The actual debate focuses on what should be the use of these antigen tests in general. The current scenario advises to have a prudence criterion, and much more about whether or not to incorporate agents outside the public health system itself. The European Commission's own recommendations discourage, at least for the time being, the massive use of antigen testing to cope with the spread of the virus. They confine it to temporary moments of lack of PCR capacity or for moments of administration in health centres or in scenarios of positivity greater than 10%, as they are being used, for example, here in Euskadi. With the scenario drawn we understand that the most prudent thing, in our opinion, is not to have a closed position, to continue analyzing and validating the different diagnostic tests that appear on the market, guaranteeing a common European approach and updating the Strategy of early detection, surveillance and control of COVID-19, always in accordance with scientific evidence and in a consensual manner at the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. I will not deny you – and I want this to be clear – that we have a preference, the conduct of COVID-19 detection tests directly through the resources of the healthcare system. And that's our preference, which I want to make clear. But, on the basis of that prudence criterion which I say to you, if it were necessary to have the help of health resources outside the public health system, I do not close myself to studying the feasibility of analysing the role to be played by pharmacies, always according to scientific evidence, the evolution of the tests within the framework of the recommendations of the EU and the WHO, and, of course, with consensus within the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. And in relation to vaccination, in conclusion, as the counselor pointed out – and I absolutely agree, our group is absolutely in agreement – we do not consider vaccination to be carried out outside Osakidetza; above all, on objective issues. We are prepared to deal with vaccination from our public system, much more so when we are talking about a vaccination which, as far as we know, is going to be phased out, it is not going to be a generalized vaccination, but phased out by different stages. Nothing more to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u67	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u68	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the Parliament, all good noontides. Go ahead, Mr Barrio, that I am glad for the support you have announced to us for our transaction, although that will not take away from you that, while persistence is a virtue, led to hyperbole begins to become the vice of heaviness. And that sometimes happens, because to nothing that anyone hears again the question made to the health counselor, the one that gave fruit to this motion, to any reader it is very clear what the Government's position on it is. And, therefore, except that the only thing that is intended is to persist in showing again what he has already taught, then it is not understood. I'm going to remember it almost textually, so I avoid repeating it with an invented dialectic. Man, I know it's not poetry, literature, or Celaya, that we've heard this morning here, because this is pretty rougher, tougher, but I'm gonna do it. In view of his statement in the appeal that — and I quote from the text — "Mr. Illa opened the door for pharmacies to participate in SARS-CoV-2 detection activities by applying rapid testing. That door was opened asking the autonomous communities to want to implement this measure to present a plan, detailing how to do so, and, well, that was what was announced at the end of the Interterritorial Council meeting," the Health Councillor replied – and I quote again the textuality –: "I would very much soften that statement, because it is a demonstration carried out by the Minister of Health within the Territorial Commission on November 18, to which I attended. And what the minister said there, in the first place, was that the European Union was discouraging the massive use of antigens to cope with the spread of the virus. He then explained that, similarly, he did not share in carrying out these antigen tests in pharmacies, but that, if any community wanted to do so, it should submit not a normal report but a very detailed report on how they intended to perform them, a very detailed report of protocols, a very detailed report on the management of tests, a very detailed report of the information generated by the ministry. That's what the minister said at the sectoral conference." And after some technical explanations that I am not going to pass here because they are especially tedious, he ended this part of his intervention by saying: "Therefore, currently, the proceedings in Euskadi do not meet the legal requirements in force." And he ended his speech by saying: "Summary, for the Department of Health, pharmacies are a crucial agent in public health promotion policies. Collaboration with them is very close and essential, and our will is to continue to improve that relationship. But there are many issues that need to be resolved before pharmacies can actively participate." Anyone who had attended that live inquiry would have already drawn the clear conclusion that, for the time being, the EU, the Spanish Ministry of Health and the Basque Government's own Department of Health do not see with the best eyes to extend the testing of VOCID to pharmacies, without taking away from them the value that pharmacies fulfil in the global health system. However, and I continue with that interpellation, in your second intervention you, Mr.Barrio, in the reply to the counselor began by saying: "Well, thank you for your words and I see that there is an open door." I don't know whether anthropological or not, but you're a real optimist, you're an obvious optimist. The counselor, in her second speech, began by saying: "Mr. Barrio, you really continue to surprise me." Sure, me too, huh? He told you about the vaccines, the possibility that the vaccines could also be carried out in pharmacies, which you had also asked about, and after a long intervention on the subject he ended up saying: "We have administered more than 500,000 flu vaccines between October and November, 50% more than the previous year. And the campaign isn't over yet. We have logistics, staff and experience, so I don't think it is necessary to use pharmacies to administer the VOCID-19 vaccine." And listen to this, showing once again their optimism, he presents the motion, in which he asks the Basque Government to organize a plan already with the necessary requirements for pharmacies to be able to perform rapid tests of Covid antigens and to carry out vaccinations when necessary. But, man, I don't know, I could have listened to the counselor, listened to what the ministry says, what the community authorities say, etc., and we could have not amended the motion and voted consistently rather than on what you proposed. But we have preferred to put forward an amendment in which we would like to put back on the table what we think about the subject, what the Basque Government thinks too, what the ministry thinks and what the European Union thinks, which is not, but only if the public health system sees itself in the need to appeal to other health subsystems for testing. But always considering all the recommendations of the European Centre, WHO, advisory councils, etc. And I suppose you, because you have said so, will agree with me; I do not know whether yours and ours are complementary or not, but it seems that you agree with us. Because it does not seem most logical to have other systems, regardless of whether we are grateful to the pharmacies for their best intention, and we say so in our transaction. The difference is this: you say, "Do it now, in case you need to." And we, who do not need, although in case it is necessary, will do it according to certain requirements, which is what seems normal to us, because to do it when what prevails is that they are not going to be required is to work meaningless and making them think they are going to be needed. In short, yours is a motion in which pharmacies ask to cooperate, and ours is an amendment in which we say thank you, but we do not think it is necessary because the public system is sufficient. And that modifies the priorities of what needs to be done: for you, make the rules, and then, if that, see if they apply; and for us, wait to see if they are needed, and then, depending on what they are needed and what test is applied, do the rule. The logical thing, following the criteria of the Basque, Spanish and European administrations, is to wait for it to be necessary, but knowing that when it is necessary we will have to overcome some general criteria which are those that appear in our amendment and other specific ones that we do not know today, because we do not know exactly, when that time comes to require the pharmacies, what test will be: if it is going to be with blood, if it is going to be with saliva... We do not know, and therefore we cannot organize or advance. There are countries that do it, countries that don't, communities that want to put it, others don't, others are waiting... I am not going to refer to either one, or to the other, or to the mid-pensioners. We are from here, with our references here in terms of public health capacity, sociology, typology of pharmacies and an endless number of differences that force us to analyze our reality and decide on it. If Osakidetza has the capacity to do so, at least so far, then what benefits can it bring for us to do so in pharmacies? We're not going to turn this thing around anymore. And in order not to undermine your optimism, we have proposed an amendment, and then a transaction, in which we maintain the possibility that pharmacies can collaborate. You see the gap there, and I think it's perfect, because besides, as I know it's an optimist, I'm opening the way for you to continue with this in your optimism. And from there, regardless of whether every region and country in the world is going to do what seems optimal – which is logical – we in Euskadi believe that what keeps our amendment, our transaction, is logical. I cannot conclude without explaining that, although he likes all the amendments, in my view they are somewhat subtly different, although Mr Hernández has already said so. I've already explained it to you: for you it's "Let's make the rule, and then, if that, let's apply and the pharmacies do it" and for us it's "Let's wait and see if they need, and if they need, we'll make a rule." And Mr Hernández says he doesn't want to know anything about a private sector in this operation. And it's part of the ideology, and I think it's reasonable. That's why they're subtly different, if not in some deeply different case. And I am not going to finish my speech without really thanking EH Bildu for her willingness to make a deal, in particular Mrs Rebeka Ubera's. And I insist again on what I said last Thursday, that I hope this is a path that will continue, that it is not just the fruit – let's say – of the pre-Christmas spirit that little by little, even if we don't have any balls or trees around here, is already invading us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u69	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Mist shouldn't be part of. Passing on the answering shift, Mr. Barrio. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u70	Thank you, President. Thank you very much. Well, yeah, the truth is, I can be a heavy optimist. I don't know, you, Mr. Telleria, have been sad, but gracefully. The truth is that with grace, because it has also been with grace; but a little sad, because it seemed that – I don't know – we had done something not normal. I mean, being heavy, making an inquiry and then making a motion on something... Well, it can be heavy, but you're convinced of what you're doing or you think you're contributing in a case like this to provide resources, to facilitate possibilities for action in two areas that we were looking at. In addition, we did so theoretically, about the tests and the application and practice of the same and the vaccines. That is to say, we did so within a framework of prevention, analysis, possibility of action. And that was why we had been scrupulous in the initiative and motion. That is why we were talking about urging the Basque Government to draw up an action plan that would set up a system of requirements necessary for community pharmacies to cooperate, and that is enough. We urged the Basque Government to work together between these pharmacies and the Department of Health with regard to the realization of what we have already talked about, in order to have all the health resources available in case of new waves of contagion. I mean, we were talking about an approach, a position, a programming, a possibility, we were talking about that everything can get worse or it can be conflictive and complicated, and then we were doing that theoretical approach of collaboration. Indeed, I know that even that can be a little earlier or that it doesn't have to be given, but it does have to be given anyway. And then, in that framework of analysis of the things we have but we cannot do it is as we had proposed this initiative. The other day I listened perfectly to the counselor, Mr. Telleria. Today I have not spoken of Mr. Illa, that is, I have not spoken of Mr. Illa. I saw in the press what Mr. Illa had said and the councilwoman told me what had happened at the Interterritorial Council, and I listened to the councilwoman. There are other keys; i.e., that was one. To what opened the door is to "We will see what plans you present me and how those plans are analyzed, and if they are good, if they are positive, they will be approved, they will be discussed and we will see if they are feasible." But in any case, I didn't use it today. To Mr Hernández, well, that is the usual vertigo to public-private collaboration in the field of health, right?, and, well, it is that approach that makes us: "No, no, of course not, and we are going to oppose in any case". Don't you? I do not think that this is a positive approach to the possible use of resources that we can have. I believe that it is the opposite, that pharmacies have demonstrated public-private collaboration in an essential way in relation to many issues, and they have done so in addition with very complicated and private things, such as analyses that were related to HIV and another series of analyses, of analytics, in collaboration, that is, in that sense I think there are interesting precedents. And I say again that I completely agree, because what you are talking about is strengthening the public system. If I'm talking about strengthening the public system too! But I do not deny the possibility of public-private collaboration, and in that I am open to what can happen: testing – and I thank Mr. Rico, moreover, for his approach, because it has been very illustrative and I completely agree with what he has said – and it is also that, forms of collaboration, there are many, you have said it. I raise one: that it can be organized, not that it has to be realized, but that we can be prepared so that a collective that is willing can be used in a series of social requirements of first necessity as these were. I mean, that's the thing. And I totally agree with what you have said that, if we have to do, if we have to take a step, all the guarantees, all the recommendations, all the means of control. That is why I am talking about making a plan in case of opting for collaboration, i.e. not saying "No, no, pharmacies do this from here", "The Basque Parliament urges that". No, no, we're going to work together and we're going to plan that. I believe that this is the fundamental element of our initiative, that possibility, I say again, and that was also the compromise amendment. I want to say that my motion has also given rise to this analysis, to this debate which I think is very interesting and to see that most of us understand that pharmacies are there, that the public system is the fundamental thing, we have to take care of everything that can come, but that there is an essential collaborative element, that it is pharmacies, that can help us and that they are willing, so we may have to use them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u71	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Team Representative. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u72	I think it was missing, when they explained that there were some kind of two positions, right?, the one brought by Mr Barrio, of the People's Party, of "Let's do", and in the transaction they have signed PNV, PSE and EH Bildu, they talk about – I don't know exactly the terms they used – "Well, let's wait, and only if we have to..., then we will resort to that collaboration". Well, our position, in fact, or the amendment that we have tabled, is also not in line with that, it's in line with another position, it's "We're going to avoid this having to happen, we're going to avoid having to resort to..."; that is, our initiative was to strengthen Osakidetza, not because I'm too heavy, like Mr. Barrio, in the good sense of the word, I say it to you – with these issues. But today we include strengthening Osakidetza precisely because of this, because, if that was the debate, if the debate was whether or not we will have to resort to certain agents outside the public health system, no matter how much collaboration the pharmacies make and that we can all recognize private pharmacies – of course! Because there are – as much as we recognize this, we think that what we have to do, in any case, is to avoid having to resort to that. Therefore, it can be our position as an ideological question, but it is not just an ideological question. We have read – and Mr. Rico has also made reference to this – " Pharmacies are not the appropriate scope for these tests, let alone for carrying out the vaccination campaign", and therefore we oppose his initiative. Yes, it is true that I recognize your concern, Mr. Barrio. When you're told around here, "Weigher," I add myself to that, in the good sense of the word. It seems to me that one has to bring the approaches here. Of course, you and we are not going to agree on that approach, but I do pick up the glove on something that my group will work on bringing to the House. Surely, then you will not agree: why not work to have public community pharmacies, for example? They don't exist. In the hospital field there are, but there are no public pharmacies in the outpatient field, which we would consider to be a first-class public service. Well, I pick up your glove, and that is a debate that I would also like to bring to this House, so that you will see that I do not consider you a heavy one, even if you do not agree at all with the position that the People's-Citizens Party has brought to this House today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u73	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u74	An interesting discussion that Mr. Hernandez has made to the house. And it seems to me that we should also consider this area, and that we ought also to make this discussion about public communal medicines, shouldn't we? And this, in the first instance, about the determination of the functions and functions of medicine. Interesting discussion. Today, we didn't understand that it was a discussion about strengthening Osarides or strengthening the medicines. We didn't understand the discussion as a confession between Osarides and Botices. We understood more of this discussion today about the roles the medicine had to perform. And so we put it down, and it seemed to us that the discussion was interesting, because, well, we have to admit that it was also a function of medicine in the community. And from the very beginning they have been in the first line, and exhorting the citizens, attending to one another, and also fulfilling a function, and must be acknowledged to them. We thought gratitude was important to him, and to explain what functions are to be fulfilled, right? And there you have to take a test, and we thought it was the least we could do to hear them, because we haven't heard them yet. And that's why we asked for their openings in this parliament, because it seems important to us to hear them all, and then we'll come and get clear of it, right? More than clearing up positions, in a situation beyond position, in a state of pandemia, which every one ought to occupy. And besides this, we certainly have a perfect union with the Esspare de l'Esa. We have often brought forward the proposals in this sense, and we shall continue to return them; for it is still obvious that we must strengthen them, because before the pandemia there was a difficulty of structure and need to answer such questions of structure, because it requires more and more means of facing the pandemia, and that, besides the means of resisting the pandemia, we need them to deal with all that is not COVID19. Because we mustn't forget that it's one thing to deal with the pandemy and that all the other diseases are there. And while we face the pandemia, we cannot forget all these others, and how important it is to prevent the pandemy in order to act efficiently against everything else. And it seems to me that we often lose this integrating point of view from the eye, doesn't it? It is plain, then, that we have many wants, as well as society, as citizens; and hence Osacides has many wants and wants to answer these wants and the wants of the people as a society. On the one hand, the short-term ones, and on the other, it is necessary to re-examine Osarism, that it is necessary to adapt to new times. And it seems to me that all these controversies we make are useful; sometimes we will agree, sometimes not, but are necessary. The discussions are very healthy and important, and are more necessary to us than ever with regard to the order and example of the public health system.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Well, me, out of solidarity I'm heavy self-revinced, too, and that's how we all end up in a heavy tie. But, fundamentally, because in some areas I think it is necessary to be heavy, and above all, on issues such as the one we are dealing with today, in which I believe it is good that we do some pedagogical work from the seats we occupy. And I believe that this work has been carried out here today, and it seems interesting to me. I think it's important that we warn the citizens what I've said in the beginning. Firstly, that the debate is not the pharmacies yes, the pharmacies do not... The debate is the antigen tests themselves and the development that is taking place according to the evolution of the tests that we have, the laboratories themselves that are putting in place new tests, that can increasingly be more sensitive and therefore more correct, but that at the moment is not so. That is why the European Union, what it does is to say "I make recommendations here"; indeed, it makes recommendations because it begins to see that there are countries that are starting to use them, and as the European Union always does with good judgment, is: "If they are using them different countries of the Union, agree on what are the criteria for use and what will be the degree of recognition that between one country and another is made of such evidence". But the substantial part is that the European Union itself at the moment warns: "This is not the way to massive deployment of COVID detection tests"; that is, the PCR remains the way and there are some specific moments in which this use of antigen tests may be indicated. I think that's the way we have to move forward. Mr. Telleria put it very well, and I also make that difference: we believe that it does not have to happen at that time when you have to go to an agent outside the public service itself – in this case, Osakidetza, but this is in relation to any public service in Spain – neither for testing nor much less for the vaccination campaign itself. That is the great difference, the great nuance that leads us to put "only if this is necessary because of the situation, if indeed the collaboration agreement is necessary" or to see with the people involved how it could be given. But only in that case: the goal has to be that it is not necessary, and I think that is very important. And finally, I also want to use – since I have become a pedagogic – to alert citizens about the different tests of self-diagnosis and some news that are being seen in the press regarding this area. At the moment, yesterday's Inter-Territorial Council meeting was unanimously adopted – and I think it is very important to stress this, when a criterion is unanimously adopted – to recommend to health professionals that they do not recommend the use of these self-diagnostic tests to citizens; indeed, ill-called self-diagnostic tests, because the only thing we are clear is that they are not used to diagnose. That's the first thing we need to be clear about. I therefore believe that here there is a basic element of consensus, that we are all facing the pandemic from the public, and then there is a consensus, not shared by all groups, that only if it were necessary to go to systems outside the public system would an organisation be necessary, which in any case would always have to be based on the scientific criteria set by the WHO and the European Union itself. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u77	Thank you, Mr. Rico. And finally, the Eubertians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u78	Thanks again. I see that in this Chamber, if we got to a vote, the fans of the heavyweights would win. All right, but let them know that at no time have I called anyone heavy. I said, "Persistence is a virtue; led to hyperbole is heaviness, and that is vice." And I'm not a supporter of the heavyweights, but it's not the debate we were coming to today, and I've just shown my surprise because with an inquiry asking the Sailburu exactly about something and the Sailburu answers exactly about it, we find it again as a motion. Okay! It can be done, but it's insisting, it's persisting. I'll call the next one heavy. I've still told him about persistence, virtue; the next is vice. And let me tell you, Mr. Hernandez, I don't like the heaviness. I don't like it, but that in each one is subjective. We have reached an agreement, I insist that I am delighted, but the difference between your proposal and our compromise amendment is not only subtle, it is thick, it is thick. You say, "Let's make a plan for pharmacies to enter and then, when necessary, use them," and we say, "No, they're not necessary," we believe, "but if they're necessary we'll make a plan, if they're necessary." That's the difference; it will seem subtle to you, but no. But we also do not face, let's say, the possible collapse of Osakidetza to require pharmacies. Go and find out why we may need pharmacies! It can be for a dispersion, for a need... It was much smaller the volume of patients, it was of another degree, it was totally different the analysis, but with AIDS pharmacies were used. And do you know who proposed and bet that in the pharmacies it could be done? You, you did it, you proposed it and you led it. There were reasons to be, it took a certain anonymity that in health centers was not so guaranteed, a lot of circumstances, but at that time some pharmacies were held, not many, without Osakidetza being collapsed. That's why we're not talking about facing the collapse with the need for pharmacies, but thinking that in a moment... You'll find out what's going to happen! Because here we don't know what happens from one day to the next, what new diagnoses there are, or what circumstances occur; therefore, why we are going to close to that possibility, if the pharmacies have always been contributors to the Public Health Administration, they have always been. Therefore, that is what we have tried to put into our amendment, without at any time thinking that there should be no prior and priority strengthening of public health. And without more, and without wanting to be heavy – I will say it only once – and asking them to be prudent, not to travel much, not to meet many to dinner, Happy Easter to all!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u79	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The discussion is over and we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Barrio Baroja's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters 6; the contrary is 67; abstaining, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u80	So, not allowed original text. We'll next vote the Basque Socialists, the EH and the Eubertarians, the middle-class corrections signed by the teams. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the parties are 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters are 68; the opponents six; the contrary is six; the abscessions 1, the white one; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u81	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Before we go to the fourth point, I inform you that the fifth has been left for another. Forth point on the theme list: "Provide another proposal by parlamental groups, in order to examine the future of the Esscal self-collector's sector, and to propose new public policies for the recovery of the sector. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Casanova, representative of the EH Group, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u82	Good morning, everyone. Good afternoon. A ghost crosses Europe, or at least crosses the European motor industry, the ghost of Nokia. [[Has shown a phone]] You'll probably all remember this, probably many of you have had a phone number like that, a Nokia phone. Once, on mobile phone principles, this company was master and master of the most advanced technology and was the leader of sales. Today Nokia still exists, but there's nothing in the mobile world anymore. Today's cell phones are different. We all have smartphones. [[Shows two telephones]] Even the auto-fiction industry is involved in a transformation of this kind. And what we have to choose is what paper we want to play, what paper we want to play our industry in this transition: We'll tie it to Nochia or connect it to the future technology. That's our challenge. In short, I'm beginning to paraphrase this phrase of Marx and Engels, and I'll continue with another sentence from Lenin. He said socialism was electricity and sobietas. Today's theme is electricity and software. So we can sum up that transformation which has been mentioned and is involved in the sector of caring, the most profound change in history in this sector. And we care, yes, because this sector in our industry and our whole economy is extremely important and heavy. The Basque car industry generates an invoicing of EUR 20 billion and 80,000 jobs, of which 40,000 are in the Basque Autonomous Community, accounting for 20% of industrial employment and 4% of total employment. If we go to the exporting sectors of this country – and we must remember that our trade surplus is one of the bases that we can have here one of the highest levels of income and one of the highest levels of social services in the environment, at least, of the Spanish State – if we are to see how it is financed or what are those main export chapters, we find that, in order, the first is that of tourisms of less than 10 people; second, parts and accessories of motor vehicles; third, motor vehicles for the transport of goods; fourth, refined oil; and fifth, new rubber tyres. That is, the basis of our contributions are automotive-related products, and many others that do not appear here, as metallic or even machine-tool products, also have an important link with the automotive sector. The 5 billion surplus we have on the trade balance annually, or at least in the past year, is based to a large extent on that potential or that power exporter in the automotive sector. And it can also be said – and this is another reason for accelerating the energy transition also in the field of export – that those 5 billion surpluses would be 8,000 if we did not have a deficit of 3 billion in energy products associated with the import of fossil products, to a large extent for the automotive sector. Therefore, I believe that with this data it is evident, once again, something that I believe that in this room everyone is absolutely clear, and that is that automotive is a fundamental part of our industrial fabric and, therefore, of our economic fabric. He was talking about electricity and software. On electricity: the electricity and electrification of the car is not the future, it is a present that has already begun and is going to grow and is growing exponentially. [[Shows a graph]] One thing is worth it: the September sales in Germany of motor vehicles, September 2020, in the cradle of the European car industry. We find that, in fact, gasoline and diesel still have most of the sales, but pure electric vehicles, which are recharged, which run on battery, already have 8 % market share. And hybrids with plug-in battery have a 7.6. Normal hybrids, traditional, a 12.8. As a result, almost 30% are already totally or partially electric in Germany in September 2020, i.e. it is happening. There is also a debate about the contribution of electric vehicles to the contribution to the fight against climate change, because there is recurrent talk that electric vehicles also pollute, and indeed electric vehicles also pollute, in their production and depending on the type of energy used to produce the electricity that fuels them. They contaminate, and therefore, as will be mentioned below, the new mobility does not involve the replacement of thermal vehicles by electric vehicles – that is only part of a much broader process – but they contaminate much less than what contaminates thermal vehicles. [[Shows a graph]] In this line, which you will probably not see clearly... then, I explain the fundamental data: the first two columns involve the emission of diesel and petrol vehicles, including emissions associated with the manufacturing process of the vehicle itself. From here are the total emissions of the life of the consumption of an electric vehicle depending on the type of production they have their batteries, the vehicle and the electricity that feeds it. In the European Union, in the worst case scenario, with an energy mix such as Polish or German, which is very coal-based, in the worst case scenario, for Polish, the total emissions are 30% lower, 56% less than that of a thermal car in the German case, and 63% less, i.e. the third part, of an electric car compared to a thermal car in the European Union, reaching 80% in the case of Sweden. And also, with the advantage that, indeed, as the production of electricity has a lot of weight, and let us hope – and so all European plans and projects are made – that it will gain weight in the production of energy through clean and renewable systems; therefore, that will still improve. The future will certainly be electrical, and there is, in some measure, the first time that it will grow fast, there is electrical. But that's not the only feature of the future car, it's also a autonomous one. It's going to be hers. A first neologism was invented to say to the carriage in eucalyptus: the ringer. Well, he's a natural, but in this case he doesn't have a guide. This is the fifth degree of autonomy, but there will be intermediate degrees (in total five). Progresibly, it will become more autonomous, and we can say today that the most important problem in being perfectly autonomous is not that of technological, but that of the jurist. The future car will be shared, and that's also a good news, because a car gives the time without stopping or using it. So sharing is a more rational use of resources. The share will be when we need it through different applications, either by pay per drive or other systems of the same kind. He'll be connected. He'll be connected to the other cars. There will be a connection to the owner or user's cell. He'll be connected to the road. All permanent connections will be indispensable. And it will be today. There won't be a static product that's produced, which sells, and keeps it in it all its life. Your hardware will also be changed, but most importantly, software will be changed during its life. These will be the characteristics of this already active transformation. And what that means is that things will change completely, that we'll be passing here in the last decade. [[Shows two telephones]] And the question we have to ask ourselves is: Do we wish to maintain the former technology, the old forms, the pioneers, and the leaders, in these future tendencies? All the countries and all the companies have asked that question, and, of course, they decided to continue the second chance somehow. They're doing things in Germany, making things in France, in China, in Japan, in the United States, everywhere. To give two or three examples, Macron has defined the future car. He left the software aside and said: the future car, electric and French. Germany has also made the same bet, and has now decided, in its support plans, and in the economy of caring, to let alone cars with thermal motors, and to protect only electrics or electric electrified ones. The United Kingdom has decided to advance the year of prohibiting thermal engines to 2030-that is to say, not tomorrow, but the day after tomorrow. And, by the way, in a country where the traditional technological industry is highly retarded (in the United Kingdom, in this case) they have seen the opportunity to develop new technology and now to develop it in the electrical world, in order to maintain a projectionism which they don't possess. The Diesel will disappear, and a little later, gasoline. And this is not just a political decision, but a decision made by the Markes themselves. A lot of large brands have already refused to produce more transports than others, and giants like Renault or Toyota, not all to say. Volkswagen is the second most important company in the world, along with Toyota, as far as production and caring. And Volkswagen made a plan, and he himself drew the future. And with the strategic plan made, I think it's a very clear clue; more than a clue, it draws very well where the future goes, because they will be creators of that future. Volkswagen has decided to extend its planned investments in the coming years for the electrification and modernisation of its strategy and range to an amount of €73 billion; virtually all of the GDP of this Community invested in technological developments and developments in new products. 35 billion for the design and manufacture of electric cars. 11,000 for hybridisation systems that can be complementary during the transition to full electrification of the car fleet. And 27 billion in software (27 billion in software). In fact, with ID.3, which is the first mass electric vehicle they have launched, they have realized that they have had a tremendous problem with the vehicle software, and that has delayed their marketing for several months. Therefore, we are being given clues: 35,000 for electricity, 11,000 for hybridization, 27,000 for software, 70 electrical models, purely electric, planned by 2030. That's what's coming to us and that's what's already in our hands. The mobility of the future will be with this self-contained, shared, connected and regularly updated electric car, which must be complemented, logically, with systems that give priority to the public's weight in mobility. If someone believes that the mobility of the future is to replace thermal cars with electric cars, he is wrong, he is wrong; it is that, of course, the cars that remain for private transport over this decade, perhaps a few more years, are going to move towards pure electrification – then we will also talk a little bit about the hydrogen issue – but it is not only the volume of materials that are required, the degree of occupation of public space that involves the privatization of transport: the mobility of the future also implies a greater weight of public and shared mobility. Hydrogen has its role and will have its role. Now it seems that it is the concept of fashion, although we believe that we have to be careful; careful, because not all hydrogen is green, and careful because hydrogen is not an efficient vector, it has a lot of energy losses throughout the process from its manufacture to its use. And, today, the electric battery system, which is about to start an exponential leap in terms of overcoming all the problems it has (price, weight, autonomy, speed, load and so on), is still much more developed – waiting for the emergence of solid state batteries, which are already going to be the definitive leap – much more developed than hydrogen. And, therefore, let us not deviate from the path of electricity. We believe that hydrogen, today and with the level of technological development it has, will be focused on niches of large vehicles, on aviation, marine, naval, etc., and not on private transport. Public strategies are being made, the public and private strategy of this gigantic transition are making public and private strategies in all serious countries; In Germany, I used to say in France, in the United States, in Japan, in Korea, even in the Spanish State, to make 10,000 millions of his own transitions from Europe, because they see that it's very important. If we have said that the core or kernel of our industry is self-service, the importance of the Spanish state is still greater because other industrial units are weaker. Then we see that politics, specific plans, and bold economic bets are playing around us; 10,000 million in the Spanish state, and that's what numbers are far beyond in other countries. There can be the problem of sharpening the split in the value chains between the countries where the OEMs are, the manufacturers of final vehicles and those that are the most producers of parts and components or assemblers of vehicles of foreign companies, and that can be very dangerous. We have a number of challenges that need to be organized and addressed as a country. I will briefly list the most important ones, although there are many more, and that is precisely why I would like to ask you to create a specific presentation for the study of the issue that we were bringing today in this GNP. We must seek the continuity of the settlement of OEM producers, and, in addition, have them manufacture and install here, in our territory, electric cars, electrical car factories and components for electric cars. We must rearrange the productive fabric to guide it to the future. We must multiply R & D in the sector, move forward in the development of software, which will take a primordial weight in the automotive world. Strengthen the convergence of the education system with the new needs of the automotive sector, from vocational training to university. Develop an internal market, too, for electric cars, which is in blankets for lack of political momentum. Develop alternative and sustainable forms of public mobility. Bet on the installation of a gigafactory in this country, which we know is El Dorado who are looking for all governments, but that it must be turned into a challenge and a shared country effort. Dialogue with public and private actors, business and trade unions must be stepped up to align forces around a shared road map that will enable us to maintain industrial leadership and employment in this transcendental sector. And implement smart manufacturing models to adapt to the needs of the future. There is no denying that change is taking place. You can and must decide to be a participant and lead in that change. You can't delay the inevitable or cover the sun with a finger. We cannot cling to the past, but must hurry to lead the future, and that also requires input from public policies, with leadership shared by civil society actors. And this Parliament, as it did in the past parliamentary term, could and should launch a paper to conduct a calm debate and make useful recommendations in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u83	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over the teams that were running the corrections, Euskal Group Popular-Ciudados. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, we agree on quite a few things on this subject of the automotive sector. We agree basically on the diagnosis, and already announce that we disagree on the treatment. We agree that the automation sector is very important, it has a very important weight in the Basque economy, and this has been a great advantage in the past. Today it is a problem that, if we know how to manage it properly, can become an opportunity. The analysis of what exactly is going on in the automotive sector, we also share it, don't we? The automotive sector, indeed, has been undergoing structural change for years, a disruptive change that has many characteristics, but I would basically point out three. First, it's a global change. The automotive market is not a local market, but a globalised one, and this change is taking place all over the world. Worldwide, it means on all continents of the world. It is not a problem, therefore, exclusive or focused on Euskadi, although sometimes some people think and act as if we were the center of the universe. And the fact that it's global really limits our ability to act on it. What we can do is always ask ourselves what attitude we adopt before him; basically, if we resist or adapt, but it is a global change. The first question we need to take into account in order not to be mistaken in the treatment. Second, it's a pending change, it's a change, somehow, delayed. If we look at the evolution of the automotive sector from a somewhat historical perspective, we can easily see that this is one of the sectors that has changed least in recent decades, despite the apparent improvements in cars (basically, navigability, safety, etc.), but there have been no changes here of substantial paradigms. As an anecdote, remember the movie Blade Runner and remember what cars would be for the future; indeed, they would be flying and jet driven. I don't know if you remember what year that future of the film was; it was 2019. Two years ago, almost. It is clear that there have been important forces of resistance – i.e. volunteers – that have delayed the change. Nor does it seem that in the short and medium term we are going to have flying cars, nor is that the goal. But, finally, there can be no door to the countryside, and it seems that change will end up imposing itself forcefully. These global changes take time to start, but when they start they are unstoppable because they have a huge inertia. The third feature of the change that is taking place in the automotive sector is that it is a change that generates important opportunities, because, somehow, everyone starts from scratch. It is not that we start now, unfortunately – there are people who already have the advantage – but let's say that now is the time or that we are still in time to position ourselves strongly on this issue. But it is true that, like all the changes, it has a great dose of uncertainty, as it is not possible, for example, to clearly glimpse what the final scenario is going to be where the market is going to be, what the final model of individual or collective transport is going to be. And it's just that there's probably not going to be a final stage. Certainly, the change will be continuous and accelerated, and will therefore need to be very attentive to the continuous changes in trends, which will certainly be transformed gradually, so that we can adapt the course to the changes that are going to happen irremediably. Therefore, this is not a story of a catastrophe; it can be, if we do nothing or if we do not do the right thing. This is the story of a great opportunity. Nor is it a consequence of the COVID – we are blaming it for everything – although it is true that the COVID can speed up some changes. The COVID, and the economic crisis it produces, always make the most crisis-ridden companies end up before, don't they? To date, as Mr Casanova has said, there are three clear trends in this market, summarising a little. There are many, but the three most important are: the first, energy-sustainable vehicles. In the short term, it seems that electric or hybrid technology is imposed, but in the long term it is still to see the power and development of hydrogen technology, which goes through waves: there are times when it seems to aim better and there are times, now, when it seems to aim worse, but we still don't know exactly what role it is going to play. The second trend, which has also been mentioned, is self-contained vehicles. They've gone from being a utopia to a reality in a short time, and soon we'll start seeing them on our roads. It is like a huge wave of water that is being held by a prey: as soon as some problems are solved, that water is going to invade us safely. They have the advantage that they bring together an important set of different technologies. I mean, autonomous cars are actually kind of like computers with wheels. And in that sense they group laser technology, GPS technology, computer vision technology... They also have a serious drawback, and it is that they require large, very large investments, to adapt the road network, etc. In fact, the autonomous car will be better positioned in those countries, in those areas where they bet most decisively on artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence will surely be a subject that will be put on the front pages of our newspapers, and I fear that on the front pages of our full notebooks, in a short time. Artificial intelligence is a topic that I think we are not giving the necessary attention to, and it will come from the hand of the autonomous car, but it will not only affect the issue of the autonomous car. What is true is that there have already been countries and there have already been areas that have been very avant-garde in this area, which have important advantages and which have incorporated artificial intelligence into their most important government policy lines. The third trend in the vehicle of the future, in the automotive sector, will be that of shared vehicles, indeed. With different models, because it is also not clear what exactly is going to be the way this is going to go forward. Right now there is like a kind of mushroom farm, in which different alternatives appear, but, by giving a single data, according to BMW data, only in Madrid, the number of car sharing users has already exceeded 500,000. The concept of mobility as a service (MaaS, by its acronym in English) will put at our disposal a car at any point in geography, simply by clicking on our mobile phone. And this is the third trend we can't close our eyes to. Given this scenario, which is not a prospective exercise but an analysis of reality, we have to ask ourselves the following questions. I mean, so far we seem to agree on the diagnosis; this is seen by almost any analyst. The question – and the question is not irrelevant – is: will it be possible for Euskadi to position himself in the future in a prominent way in the automotive sector? Highlighted; man, we can always drop the crumbs, huh? But is it going to be possible to stand out? And second: are we sure that a stake decided by the future automotive sector, as is the international picture, is the best strategic choice for Euskadi? That is why we believe that the solution to this issue is not to make another parliamentary presentation that lasts another two or three years, because on this issue things go very fast and every minute is gold. We cannot lose two or three years in a critical time to position ourselves, analyzing this sector, by the end, perhaps, come to the conclusion that we are already late and bad and that it has no remedy, and that we better look for fish in another squid because it has already been eaten by those who have gone faster. Let's not be fooled, these kinds of presentations are expensive, they take a lot of time and are often completely ineffective with regard to the objective that they are marked, among other things, because most of them do not have a clear objective and also become a product at the service of some groups. On the other hand, we believe that it is not for Parliament to seek the best strategy for Euskadi to compete at the international concert, but for the executive. That is why we propose that the government lead – I repeat, that the government lead – this initiative and present in the coming months a strategic plan to answer the question of how Euskadi will compete in the international concert within, for example, ten years. It is about raising our eyes a little, mobilizing energies, getting out of our present paradigms, thinking in the long term and with perspective, and, taking advantage of the experts, consultants, universities and the agencies we have, developing an innovative plan that is able to inspire the illusion of citizens and their political and social forces, who deserve and need a Basque Government capable of leading society on this issue and at other levels of vision, rather than what they have today, a well-accommodated and ageing Government, worn out by 40 years of government and unable to get out of the schemes of thought and conduct that have brought it here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u85	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Team Representative. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u86	Thank you. Well, taking the line of the last speech, we think that everything that concerns an executive, as far as implementation is concerned, is up to Parliament in terms of control, follow-up, impulse, which would be the case, in this matter, of the presentation proposed by Mr Casanova, which, as he has said, was already approved in this Parliament in the previous parliamentary term, and the electoral advance ended with the same presentation. And, therefore, of course, our group, which on that occasion also supported this initiative and we also reached an agreement with EH Bildu, will continue to maintain the same position. To me, my mother, when I was a little girl, she gave me a big deal about one thing. I didn't listen to him then, but the truth is that life showed me that I was right: "If you start one thing, you have to go through with it and finish it." That speech was on the move, it could not continue with the electoral advance, but it would certainly be good if it were now on the move. And while there are now different majorities and the groups that support the Government have a sufficient majority to overthrow the initiative in this case, we think it would be a good decision to change their minds and allow the launch of that paper, which has already begun its work in the previous legislature. And the use that each group can make of a presentation for itself is the same one that we all use in the different debates that may be in this Parliament. There should be no fear of that, and in that paper there are many agents who would have much to contribute. We would also like – in order to put, a little bit, the arguments as to why we believe this is important – to focus on one of the issues that may not have been discussed so much today, that of the changes that the sector is in fact going to suffer, and I believe that we agree with all the groups or at least those that have intervened so far. A million or a half million more vehicles are being manufactured each year than are sold today, that is to say, there is already a global overproduction in the automotive sector. And this is leading many plants to be in production regimes of 30, 40 or 50 % of their actual capacity. Maintaining this productive voraciousness also requires that users continually renew the mobile park, which has basically been one of the main policies on this issue that have been taking on different governments, all governments. The plans renew, etc., go in that direction. The trend is not going to be reduced, but, according to the famous industry 4.0, it is going to be implemented the automation of the works that are now more manual type, especially in the assemblies. We will have greater productive flexibility, i.e. to carry out in the same space more models of vehicles, which will lead, from the mercantilist point of view, to make inviolable or, rather, unnecessary many assembly plants, and will end up deciding the elimination of those that are not considered strategic by the manufacturers. And the translation of this could be... it'll be layoffs and unemployment. This is in broad terms what is already happening near here, for example, with the Nissan in the Barcelona Free Zone, leading to the possible loss of thousands of jobs and the feeling of impotence that the states (in this case, the Spanish State) cannot act because they do not have the capacity to decide on any company in the sector. Therefore, the question of ownership of the means of production is still there, but it is still a debate of absolute public relevance, although some are trying to call it nineteenth. The overproduction that Karl Marx spoke of in his work popularly known as Capital is a reality today, also in the automotive sector, and is one of the issues that should be taken into account when discussing this and that should be taken into account in that presentation. The question is how they are going to cope with this crossroads, both private manufacturers and public institutions, because how the future of the sector is faced, as I said, depends on thousands of jobs in Euskadi, where the car – already perfectly explained at the beginning of his speech, Mr Casanova – is a strong sector, an important sector, is a fundamental sector of our economy. The situation in the VAC is marked by the Mercedes plant in Vitoria, which accounts for around 5% of the GDP of the Autonomous Community and almost 30% of the GDP of Alava. Little joke; 5,000 workers plus another 35,000 people in component plants. Therefore, to us, the question of employment is one of the things that we are very concerned about the future of this sector, because what happens in the future will have an important impact for good or for bad in the jobs of Euskadi. In Gipuzkoa is also located Irizar, one of the leading bus producers. In this case, a cooperative that also builds its vehicles in an integral way since 2011. Until then he was in charge of chassis carriages of other companies such as Scania or Volvo. It seems that this experience has been positive, to the extent that it has become a leader in the sector, with its own R & D & i centre and with a wide range of hybrid, electric and conventional products, also in the public and collective transport sector, to which reference has already been made. In the sector too, we must include the manufacture of tyres – it has also been mentioned in previous interventions –. In Vitoria there is the Michelin factory, with more than 3,000 workers; in Basauri and Usansolo, Bridgestone, where about 1,000 other people work. And, of course, the important auxiliary industry we have in Euskadi: Mubea, Megatech, Cie Automotive... Well, a few and an important sector. We usually discuss which are the strategic sectors in our country or not. I believe that with the different data and interventions that we have heard today and when we also discussed this in the previous parliamentary term, it is clear that the automotive sector is a strategic sector. There is no doubt that it is in the general interest of the institutions to act in this sector. There is no doubt, therefore, in our view, that this Parliament should constitute this presentation where different actors can participate, where we can also discuss the future of the sector and what steps the Basque Government should take on it. Because, yes, it is up to the Basque Government, it is the executive, but it is also up to the Basque Parliament to discuss and discuss such important issues, and the plenary are not the right place for these calm debates and for other actors, apart from the political parties, to intervene. The future of the sector is uncertain for different reasons that have been explained. In the automotive sector, both Spain and Euskadi are a power, we are one of the main producers in the world, but none of the large companies established in our territory have Spanish or Basque capital, much less a public participation. All this brings us to a future full of insecurities that leaves us at the mercy of the decisions made by private brands in foreign countries, which will decide where the sector is headed and – what to Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we are also very concerned about – where the models of the future are produced, because thousands of jobs in Euskadi depend on it and a fundamental percentage of our economy. The future is uncertain for the automotive industry and these uncertainties must be addressed. The automotive sector in our country is a giant, but it can be a giant with mud feet, not having national companies or public participation that allow us to have some control over the future of the sector. That is why it is doubly important that the action of the Government and the initiatives of the Government be well planned. The great weight this industry has on our GDP makes us terribly sensitive to possible changes, which, as we have seen, are going to happen. In the previous parliamentary term, this paper was approved and could hardly be taken up. We believe that it would be extremely good for that paper to be launched, which does not have to last two years, Mr Gil Vegas; so we will therefore vote in favour of that paper to be launched and we ask, above all, those groups that support the Government to reconsider their position.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u87	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euskal Sozialistak. Corcuera andrera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u88	Thank you, President. Counselor. On March 28, 2019, in this House, and due to strange circumstances in the debate itself, due to the change of position of a parliamentary group in the discount time, a proposal was approved for the creation of a presentation to propose new public policies for the analysis of the future of the Basque automotive sector and its strengthening, supported by the Basque People's parliamentary group, between Euskal Herria Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos. So important was the matter which, with the adoption of the initiative in March, was launched at the end of January this year, that is, ten months later. And beginning the appearance on 10 February of that year, it was automatically dissolved when the lehendakari took the decision of the dissolution of Parliament, so we only attended a meeting of that presentation. Today we have various factors that were not then on the table. We have a new parliamentary legislature, a response from Europe to the pandemic for economic recovery, and we have new elements that the Basque Socialists believe can still give us a vision that can further support the position that we then adopted with the debate on that initiative by Euskal Herria Bildu, and in which we are repeating ourselves again today. We start from the recognition, on the part of both the Government of Spain and the Basque Government, that the automotive sector is a strategic sector, a sector which, moreover, from a technological point of view is well positioned as a benchmark and vanguard in Europe. In Euskadi the sector is represented by the cluster Acicae, which throughout the past crisis, that of 2008, established a long-term strategy, with a comprehensive plan of action in several areas to ensure the viability of all types of companies. The objectives of the Euskadi automotive cluster are: to improve the strategic vision of the automotive sector; to promote cooperation between companies; to facilitate entry into new markets and to obtain more customers; to promote the training and adoption of new advanced management models; to increase the R & D & i level of the sector and of companies; and to attract local, state and European projects that bring value to the sector. That is why I think it is important to highlight the statements made by the director of Acicae on 11 November, according to which the Basque automotive sector currently maintains a level of activity that is close to 90% (in some cases even higher). And although a drop in billing is expected at the end of this year, it will be less than expected at first. The director also highlights her rapid recovery since September of the sector, although she anticipates an uncertain 2021 and hopes that in 2022 she will return to normality. The Basque automotive companies constitute a sector that last year made 20,375 million euros, without including Mercedes Benz Álava, 5.5% more than in the previous year, and with data at the end of 2019, this sector employed 120,000 people (40,488 in the Basque Country) and had 320 production plants in 32 countries, both in emerging and traditional markets. It is also said that it is not easy to quantify the drop in demand in the sector as a result of the current crisis, as the situation is changing and is now at a time of substantial growth due to multiple causes. "In any case, the important thing at the moment is to finish the year well and start 2021 with equal strength," said Mrs Anitua. It has not been anticipated how the current year will close the sector, waiting to have an overall picture, although it turns out that there will be a drop in the billing, although less than expected at first. Most companies have been able to cope with the situation, and this has greatly influenced the experience gained in the 2008 crisis. This made it possible to learn how to react to a sudden crisis that led to a sudden drop in billing of 25%. Of course, this crisis is different because of its scale and because it is also global in all markets almost at the same time, but it has served to relativize. The measures articulated by the institutions to support this sector, such as the ERTEs implemented by the Spanish Government, which were launched at the time, have contributed to the improvement of the sector, as well as the postponements of taxes or loans have had a positive impact on this sector and the current crisis. Sure! At this juncture, the cluster is working to accelerate the transformation of the automotive industry in Euskadi and to diversify the markets, customers, products and processes of the sector. What is at stake, in short, is to remain competitive despite all the circumstances, and to this end, one of the most important elements is the fact that companies in the sector are presenting projects for European funds and using this instrument to improve their positioning. At the beginning of June, Euskadi and other autonomous communities contacted the Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism to express the desirability of setting up an automotive table as a working forum to respond to the dynamism of demand through quick-range measures and the combination of a medium- and long-term strategy defining a road map for the industrial development of automotive. In addition to seeking to be an active part in the definition of the strategy with a collaborative and constructive spirit, the autonomous communities advanced a foundation that could be part of the strategy to be developed. A few days later, the Government of Spain, with President Pedro Sánchez at the head, presented on 15 June the Plan to boost the value chain of the automotive industry, with social agents and business agents who had participated in the design of this plan. This plan is a commitment by the Government of Spain to the automotive sector that is added to the government-backed loan lines and to the 170,000 jobs that are now protected under the ERTE. The plan indicates that, if the automotive industry is to remain competitive, it must be made easier for the sector to continue to adapt to the new demands of the domestic market, also of the export markets, because this is an eminently exporting sector. There are new demands on the domestic market, there are new demands on the export market and, in particular, the challenge of decarbonisation, with increasing demands for the production of increasingly clean and sustainable vehicles. Two weeks later, on 29 June, the Automotive Bureau was set up, supported by the Government of Spain, in which the representatives of the autonomous communities and of the entire value chain of the automotive sector were present. The first meeting was attended as guest by Thierry Breton, the Commissioner for the Internal Market, who recalled the role of the European Commission and its response to the crisis of the coronavirus, indicating that automotive has been one of the first sectors to benefit from this response, although it must be ensured that all countries can move forward with the same capacity to intervene in the economic fabric and with fair playing rules. According to the Commissioner, the integrity of the internal market and also the competitiveness of the European automotive sector, which is at risk from the additional costs of social distancing, must be preserved. The Commissioner also pointed out that the response to the crisis must be European and solidarity. He mentioned the Next Generation funds, which we were talking about yesterday, and he positively valued the whole automotive value chain drive plan and the initiatives integrated into the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan. It considered the working table to be an initiative, in addition to promising, inspiring for other Member States. The Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism valued the importance of the table in view of the Automotive Recovery and Drive Plan to define tractor projects that allow us to scale up initiatives that strengthen the competitiveness of our industry, and stressed the importance of the autonomous communities in the development of the Drive Plan to the entire value chain of the automotive sector and the productive sectors to develop automotive investments. There is therefore clear leadership from both the Government of Spain and the Basque Government so that the automotive sector can meet the challenges of the ecological transition in a planned and coordinated manner with the interests of society. We start from the fact that the automotive sector is one of the main engines of the European economy, accounting for 6% of GDP. The automotive industry generates almost 13 million jobs in Europe, accounting for 5.3% of the total number of workers. We are therefore indeed facing a strategic sector of the economy, and the governments of both Spain and Euskadi have taken an active part in the elaboration of a strategic planning in the face of the changes and future challenges posed by the automotive sector in the Spanish industry and in the Basque industry, linked, among other factors, to the energy transition in which the countries of the European Union are committed, and that is why, in addition to the criteria we have given on the previous occasion, we do not believe that the paper intended to provide more practical certainty in the definition of the projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Tapia, congressmans. Good morning, everyone. As the people who have followed this debate since last year will know, we will stand against the creation of the paper for consistency with what we voted on a year ago – in principle, the political and debate framework has not changed, yes the context – and also for consistency with the institutional action that this government has taken in recent months. I am talking about institutional action because in recent months, or in June, Councilwoman Tapia sent to Minister Reyes Maroto, the Minister of Industry, a letter calling for a shared strategy to define the medium- and long-term strategy for the car sector, and this letter revolved around nine points that I am going to summarise: the first was to generate legal certainty; the second was to renew the vehicle fleet; the third was to develop the charging network for electric vehicles; the fourth was the boost for more development research; the fifth was more renewable energies; the sixth was adequate training; the seventh was the clear bet by the tractor companies; the eighth was to boost the autonomous and connected vehicle; and the ninth was to monitor fiscal dumping policies. We understand – and I personally understand perfectly – that the opposition, and particularly Euskal Herria Bildu and the People's Party-Citizens, well, they want to be at the helm or near the helm, in this case – I say through this presentation – but I believe that there are areas of institutional action that have to be starred and carried out by the government, and we believe that in this case it must be so. We do not generalize this thought for everything. There are poncies, for instance, I was here a couple of months ago, protecting the origin of ponciation in the Arctic region. And in this case, I think, it was different, because we will bring to this parliament a reality of many sectors and many actors (the Chaldrills, the administrative judges, the mayors of different signs), and so we will spend many hours in a long calendar in order to share the diagnosis. And so, in those cases, I believe that this institution, even this legislature, has its role. But in the automoment case, the main political lines come from Europe, the deep-lying market dependences are Mudals, and it's the only sector. There's a number of performance actors, businessmen, organizations, but it's the only sector with limited actors. And therefore we would have it from our party, whether it be from a work of government, or rather from an association of institutions, especially because efficacy, at least, is greater. Our team and government are different, they're not for the production of power. We, on the one hand, want to keep a job. I think we ought to mention employment on this point, because patience has three legs; On the one hand, ecological endurance, of course, but also economic and social. Transition. Well, we have a deadline over there, which is light in 2050. With regard to carousing, we must be neutrals in Europe, so we have this ambitious goal. We must take steps from this day forward, well, there are also the ones we've already given. But in our economy, today, diesel weighs a lot. Mercedes's only a few miles from here. Even within a few miles we have Volkswagen. And so it must be a stake, a great ambition, but a little bit of ambition, that is to say, paulatina, erdar, isn't it? The RERES and the renov's plans have also been successful, and they must be maintained. And secondly, the fact that the second rhab and second is not meant to be anything less important than that of the former, we believe that the harpsichord is research and development; And companies are conditioned for three things: on the other hand, the markets, that is to say, a consciousness, growing stronger and stronger, are also conditioned by the citizens, and the electric car is sold when they are buyers, is it not? And thirdly, by the Law of the Law. The legislation in Europe must be said to be very extraordinary. Today you read that the dot Volkswagen has stopped a $1,000 ticket, but for a few reasons, we're talking around big quantities. And so I think we're on the right track, because recently, in this legislature, there are sometimes loose threads and then there's a retroalment between the teams. And in this case, I think it is proper to make a speech for the public, because in the interviews of the bar-and it is always heard that the officials are lazy, that they only drink coffees, and sometimes to plan that small or great ideological battle, and to hear a speech for it, is almost unsuspected? We hear it here, but you can't hear it anywhere. But even public institutions, for instance, produce wealth and employment, but it must be said that the most fruitful of research and development is produced by enpresis, and that it is necessary for enpresis to give it; In Autowork, things I was going to say were said, don't we? We're in an exciting moment: Volkswagen has built a real investment for digitalization, hybridization and electrocution. Toyota's a little more conservative, but, well, she'll be getting a hydrogen car for years to come, in months to come. And there are two other examples which are very important: In the first place, Tesla. Tesla is a very small company nowadays, but it's important to get them here because they don't appreciate reality, because the stocks don't do it, the prospects are the spectivatives, and so Tesla is the biggest company in the world at this time, considering the collection of the Companies, I think it's clear that people see the future there, so it won't stop and continue in good progress. And secondly, a domestic example: He's the Basque Leader in Europe on the electric bus. Our own companies are leaders of Europe (Solaris and Irizar), so that I think we could hope to balance on that side. Within the scope of research and development, we believe that the Eukadic Government must make a lever from that logic which I have just mentioned. It must be the appealr; it must be one of them, but at least receive another, and produce in it the synergies of enpresies, and, above all, produces a cultural change. Here, I believe, even the government thinks that we have a way out there, and that's where we're supposed to be going for years. It is an inquiry and development that our nation should be the pioneer of the transition, leaving no one behind, maintaining and creating employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u91	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. We'll take the answers turn. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u92	I'm out of here. I'm out of here. I'm out of here. Amaieratik hasita, nago teenagers. Well, first of all, I'd like to thank you, because we're grateful to discuss the substance and not to lose it in the forms. And I think that all parties, or groups, have well explained their positions, and that disputes, well, though we have not agreed, were the builder. Research and development. Well, I've mentioned two telephones before, it was Nokia... [[Has shown a phone]] I took Samsung from Korea. South Korea invests in research and development 4% of its raw internal procedure.5. 4.5. We're 1.86. Autocraft is a tractor, in that sense. The three is investing, or three, and three, and I'm talking about the village chief. The study and development, of course, is one of the themes we have to deal with in this form, how to push, in this and in general area. Sometimes I tend to say a little ironically that it's a shame that in China they don't see the Teleberri, because if in China they see the Teleberri they would realize that there is an economic power called the Basque Country, which inaugurates factories, which leads the R & D, which works all wonderfully. Then, they would have given it as impossible, they would have given it as impossible. But they don't see the Teleberri, no, what they do is plan their economy for the future. And all serious countries – I mean China, which has a very particular economic model, but also other countries of another political sign – do so (for example, South Korea, which also plans its future), and also plan its strategic sectors. I am not proposing here that Parliament replace the government, inter alia because I know perfectly well what the correlation of forces is in this Parliament, as in yesterday's debate on European funds; any vote in this Parliament will reflect the same reality as the composition of the government. We are not talking about replacing, we are talking about giving transparency, giving channels of participation and giving channels of contribution: to the House, to the groups that make up it and to the agents of civil society. Because companies, they're probably doing well, many of them are in the automotive sector. We're talking about keeping the lead. If they had the leadership, they're not doing it wrong, they're not doing it. But companies are compartmentalized, they have their goals, they have their sectors, they have their subsectors, their own strategies... The global vision has to be given by a government, and the global strategy has to be marked by a government, not by a parliamentary commission. The commission did not intend to mark that strategy, it intended to collect these channels of participation from other political groups and other social actors who are not in the Government and to hand them over to the Government. He was sleeping... ! Y believet mentinaba obros ejemploss: We did this in the power of the left and the Oarso, and if someone finally comes in planning those new TV plans, it's the government. But we do not plan this from faction, we know, after all, that the profit of this power, if we plan interesting things, will be taken by the government in political terms and contributions. But in this case, we want to help the government, to push a sector that's good for all of us and the government, beyond the Party. And we know from this idea that the political cortocist government would have succeeded, but that's not what we intend to do, it's our intention to push a sector in an inflexium point. Eta logikoa iruditu zati Corcuera andrearena. I am going to pass on your speech, Mrs Corcuera, to my colleague Oskar Matute, so that when they talk about this subject in Madrid you will know what they are going to answer. And you have done very well, you speak of the Government of Spain, that you have done something, to avoid talking about the Government here, that you have sent a letter and 5 million more to the renewed plan over the past year. And he has not spoken of COVID at all, because this crisis far transcends the short-term, but I believe that the Basque Government can be asked for much more in the present and in the immediate future, and that these strategic plans must be led by the Basque Government. Mr. Gil Vegas, first I have to thank you for mentioning Blade Runner, I commend your good taste, at least, because it matches mine. Know, I give you the hope that there is a surprisingly good second part, which is Blade Runner 2049. Perhaps by 2049 we will arrive, but, in any case, I think we have marked a road map to fly, no, but almost, almost. The question is how we are going to position ourselves there, because I have to tell you: I am a modest person, as I am on the side of Bilbao I could say the most modest in the world, and I already know that this paper is not going to design the future of automotive. It is that millions of the brightest minds on the planet right now, both in governments and in private companies, are dedicated to this! What this paper could provide modestly is a series of recommendations on how we will position ourselves in that future that is already being built. And I will give an example: how many times have you heard in recent years – especially before the COVID crisis – that there was a lack of qualified personnel in certain companies. Whose responsibility is it to train qualified personnel? When we talk about, for example, that we have a huge gap in software, which is something very important in the car and more and more, whose responsibility is it that the education system adapts? There would be many more things to say; obviously, time has run out. We started the presentation, Mrs. Corcuera, and remember that there were three elections and several months inoperable by means, so that the presentation was extended before it started and then unfortunately became an "interruptive pontency" in which I was walking, as you recalled, without mask or anything, to the crazy, but, man, before we started with the subject of masks, which were not yet in use, right? The Basque Government still said in May that was for those who were sick. Well, nothing, a note of humor, but, although today has been a missed opportunity, we understand that, as a country, the opportunity to adapt and to lead this transition train in the automotive industry cannot be missed. We regret that the Government rejects the contributions of others; it seems to have all the formulas on its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u93	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Popular Group-Ciudados. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I have to start by saying that the debate seems very interesting to me. I think it is very appropriate for us to talk about this issue here in Parliament; in this plenary, I mean. I think that this is a subject to which we must pay great attention, because, in fact, we are playing a lot, we are playing almost all the weight that the automotive sector, which is a lot, has in our current economy. The debate, therefore, is appropriate, the debate makes sense, but it seems to me that what is not appropriate is the solution, that is, to create a paper. I don't know, let's imagine that we go out to Parliament today and meet a citizen to whom we tell the situation, if you don't know it, and when you ask us, "What is Parliament going to do?" We say, "Well, create a paper." I don't know if this person or a Mercedes employee will be satisfied with the answer, but I am sure that today – and I say it ironically – will surely be the entire Euskadi automotive sector connected over the internet to see this debate and see if the presentation finally comes out. Let's see, we can't waste time on this subject. We are in a situation where we have to run, where we do not have time to be here analyzing what has already happened. The situation, I don't know if in the end we've finished seeing it clearly. The situation is quite dangerous. Surely, most of the factories in Euskadi that we currently have working for the automotive sector in ten years, either have undergone a radical change or have disappeared. When I say a radical change I mean that they become, if there is a bakery, a fish shop, and if there is a shoe shop, in a bakery, that is, a fairly radical change, that will have its effects on the subject of employment in a radical way as well. For example, unskilled employment will disappear and if we have it in quality and in sufficient quantity, a lot of demand for qualified employment will appear. And on that subject we are also late, because, as you know, all topics in Education must be planned and prepared in advance. Of course, the PNV tells us that yes, they have already done, that the counselor has written a letter to the minister for a shared strategy. Okay, I agree, that the strategy on this issue cannot be absolutely local, that it cannot even be from Spain, that it has to be from Europe, that, surely, the more we add, the better, but, man, that the solution is to write a letter... Look, it's not that we want to be at the helm, what we want is for someone to be at the helm, and that's what we don't see today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u95	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together Podemos-Bezzerzia. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u96	I'm going to be very brief, to basically do what I've done before. Of course, if I agree with the People's Party-Citizens in the concern about the medium-term future of the car in Euskadi, I believe that in my previous speech I expressed this to me, and that is why we feel that this presentation is important. We have time, we don't have time... Well, as before I started talking about my mother's advice that I didn't pay much attention to when I was a kid, so another one of the advice was "Slowly and with good lyrics", because sometimes things are better than running. I do not think that a parliamentary presentation prevents the government from doing the things it believes it needs to do in the automotive sector either. And it is true, indeed, the people who are pending and the workers – because you have made reference, Mr Gil Vegas, to this in particular – because, no, they are not pending this debate, they are not pending whether what is going to come out here today is a paper or not, they are not out there waiting for a paper and so on... Nor on his initiative, which does seem to go a bit towards making things faster: the Government is urged to present a strategic plan in the coming months. I assure you that you are not there waiting out there like crazy for the government to present in the coming months that strategy that you are asking for. It seems to us that in the future of such an important sector – which, as I mentioned earlier, is a giant sector, but it can be a giant sector with mud feet in our country because, well, companies are private, and therefore the only capacity for action we have is the government's policies – if, in fact – I agree with Mr Casanova – they are not planned, we will be at the mercy of what can happen. And in addition to the ecological transition, the green transition and other transitions that this sector is going to make, the problem of overproduction – which I wanted to put on the table in my first intervention – seems very important to us because it is going to have direct effects on employment in Euskadi, very important direct effects. I do not know if in the short term of 5 or 10 years, because the Mercedes, seems to have the guaranteed manufacture in that period, but yes in a medium period of time, it will be, surely, of those conflicts that then we meet with the dismissals and that when the workers come here we have the embarrassment. We are talking about what aid the Basque Government has given or has not given when these conflicts take place; for now is the opportunity to plan for the automotive sector. And yes, the government, I do not know whether it will do it better or worse, we will criticize it, we criticize it, but that Parliament has a paper where the parliamentary groups, where the agents of the sector, where trade unions, where employers, where experts can speak and, indeed, make recommendations and put the sector in the public debate too, really seems to us positive and it seems to us that this has to be the work of a parliament as well. Because here, in plenary, in 10 minutes we are not going to discuss groups about the future of the automotive sector. Because, moreover, it is not only the political groups that we need to talk about, and if only the government does, the opposition groups will be out of the equation. And, yes, we also want to participate in the future of our country, among other things, because its economy and jobs depend on it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u97	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u98	Thank you, President. Let's see, I share the diagnosis you made, Mr Casanova, in your first intervention, of the first fifteen minutes, and I am absolutely against the twenty-one seconds that it took you to finish your intervention. And the same is true of Mr. Gil's, because you've started very well, you've followed very well and you've ended up with a phrase a little bit like that..., extemporaneously, no?, a bit that excelled, but, well, even that last sentence I also share your diagnosis. But do you know what's going on? That we are very clear about the weight of the automotive sector in the economy and the relationship that both the Government of Spain and the Government of Euskadi have with this industrial sector. You pass on my speech to him, and let me also read the press conference that the President of the Government gave on 15 December presenting that plan. It comes in a PDF on the web, Mr. Matute has it perfectly, and I am convinced that it will come to you very, very well. The Socialists also understand that the automotive sector is facing a transformation scenario and that energy is a fundamental vector affecting the Basque industry. But the automotive sector cannot be regarded as an unprotected industrial sector, whose development is alien to the intervention of the governments, nor of the Government of Spain nor of the Basque Government. I told him that on 15 June the President of the Government of Spain presented the Plan to boost the value chain of the automotive industry, at whose working table the autonomous communities and the Government of Spain themselves will participate. Then, Mr Gil, you come up, but it is for you, for the Basque People's parliamentary group, that the presentation was made on the previous occasion, for that strange gesture that you made at the last moment and that is why we were meeting on February 10, that afternoon, without masks, which I also threw in front of Mr Otero, and it was you, but, well, I don't think that, in the end, you will not come up so high because by your vote that committee was set up. And, Mr Hernandez, it seems very good to me that you listen to your mother, because mothers, as a rule, we usually have reason, not to say always. But do you know what's going on? Another saying: "What bad begins badly ends." And that speech started strangely... I'm not going to say wrong, strangely, because it was a democratic vote that generated it, but what you can't come to say is that it was very important, that it was a very urgent issue, that it was an absolutely strategic issue, that we depended on that speech for the future of the automotive sector and wait 10 months, with elections, without elections, that is the same. But if you and I work a lot, before, during and after the election! Are we going to slow down an election for the creation of a ten-month paper? No, Mr. Casanova, no, no. You know what we were playing at then, you know you took that speech as you took it, and, well, unfortunately it started strangely and didn't end well because it ended with the dissolution of this House. So, well, at least, to generate a little bit of memory and good taste of mouth, Merry Christmas to everyone!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u100	Thank you. Two short thoughts and closing. Today we do not close any channels of participation; what we do not do is open another. But you have, Mr Casanova, every Thursday and two Fridays a month to ask how many things you want and to propose how many things you want in detail, as action is being taken by the Government. On the other hand, poor Nokia! He's got a terrible stigma. Look, Nokia, today, is one of the 50 largest companies in Europe; it is in Eurostoxx 50 and, by the way, it has the triple contribution that Renault, which is one of the companies that are the result of France's stake for intervening in the private market; the triple. It is also worth a third of the PSA Group, and is facing layoffs. Therefore, it is a system in which, in that no, we will not agree. And the closing. Well, the weight of research and development must be increased. That's clear, and the government's commitment is to go beyond that two percent. We have to work on the context. And we also know that there are thousands of factors to increase the weight of research and development. The government doesn't have thousands, but has dozens of programmes. There is no dictionary left to give so many names of euphoria, and, moreover, all have content and reason behind each of its undertakings. So we have our course and, well, we have to go hard. That's all there is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u101	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. End of discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect, and together with the middle-direction that Podemos-Nozer has signed. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 46; abstaining, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u102	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full-line correction of the Basque Groups of Populars. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 73; the supporters 5; the contrary, 67; abstaining, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-12-17.u103	So, it's not accepted the full correction of Popular-Chaulian groups. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and forty o'clock in the afternoon.
