ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u0	Good morning, everyone. The whole meeting will begin. Before you start your theme list, I remind you that Mrs. Pindodo, Mr. Iturate and Álvarez and Mrs. First point in theme list: "Provide the other bill as a parlamentary team, on the consideration of taking precautions for the education system. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Arrese, representing the EH Group, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative. Anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u1	Good morning, everyone. COVID-19 hit the whole educational system. The second week in March is far away. Remember? It's been years since the first school in Aran seemed to have been closed. From one day to the next we had to change our telematic educational teaching, which was all that we had supposed. And we realized that when we're short of the school, the world's most important structure is turned upside down. We realized that when school and school stop in general education, the world stops. We have to be a Pandemia for that. What would we do if it didn't exist as a school institution? That's the question. We didn't even think of the dimensions the pandemese could have taken; no, that's true. But this ignorance does not allow us to exclude you, the President Urcullu, with your own care and care. In March, yes, there was a virus, but the Board of Education disappeared. The conclusion, in our opinion, has been clear; this educational model, which first led to great privations and extreme impotence, this system of education, has been found with great difficulty in facing the situation. We are conscious of it. 19th This educational model, which was little distinguished from the educational education which was founded in the century and had some particular purposes, has shown itself to be highly developed, as the Basque People of the United States is believed to have come to an end. And in cases of want and impotence, I also want to confess this, because of students, professionals and families, who constitute the educational unit. Nevertheless, the community of education is working on prepotent conditions which can no longer be prolonged in time. For the moment, without much information, with conflicting notifications in some cases, and protocols made on one side-in short, insecure. For the past few weeks we've seen it over and over and over and over and over in the streets and in the streets, what people think, and what witnesses it is. Thus, in all these months, Araba, Bizkai, and Gipulia have been reduced to a state of protrude with this pandemy, and many of the students, many of the students, have been much more remote from it, especially the students who are in the lowest condition. I mean those who had hitherto been forgotten, those students whom the protocols sent have but little to mention, who require specific needs. Education is a key to support life, and the system has to place the student in the middle, so we must take measures not to leave anyone behind. But in this time, has our education been able to make up our minds to leave no one behind? Can we be certain that our system, the President Uruklu, has left no one aside? Its vital function, socionomical, linguistic, cultural, is indispensable for education to fulfill the genus. We think we have to get that lost function back before it's too late. For this purpose, we must take immediate measures. To plan and start these things is inevitable, because they need extraordinary measures in the eyes of an extraordinary situation. This study, no doubt, is being unusual, and will be unusual, that is evident. For, though our condition at school is very late, we must study it thoroughly, learn it from what has happened, and prepare the system; for we cannot, as we have said before, react only to a branch of improvisation, by means of inertia and pressure and protestation. In fact, it is not only the leading men of the art of education but all of us from a popular point of view. The chief of the Union, past prayers, do not serve us, because it seems to me that it is because it seems to me that what you are doing is the only effort to turn back the course we had before. You want to get back what was before Pandemia, but this chaos we have, this chaos we're conscious of, regardless of it. Go back to your old age, yes, but with a worse situation. The situation has changed, but I will also tell you that I dare say that we have the best chance of constructing a different education between us all. And for this purpose, to build a different model of education among all men, there is need of will. We have the will of the Basque People gathering: dialogue, work, agreements and agreements. But that, for the moment, is not what we've seen before. If anything has been clear from the second week of March I have alluded to, it has been the uncertainty and ignorance that the sector has been education. Nay, questions are, for the moment, more than answers, and are not of any importance. The Board of Education has renewed its faces, and I sincerely wish you to do the best work for the Artaba, the Bizkai and the gym system. Your equipment has a new face, yes, but you can't have a pretext for making decisions and making the means available. It doesn't work because you're trying to recruit the equipment because you have to stretch out, stretch out, and stretch out, because you have to make decisions today. For, as we have often heard of this Government, I repeat, three months ago, since the protocol was sent to the schools at the end of June: it's been three months. And many things have been done during that interval, but I'd say the schools had to do a lot of things without the help of the government, of course. They had to adapt their school from one week to another. And all this time, in all these three long months, we have seen the parents, because they must receive their grandfather and mother, to take them to school or not to doubt. We've seen the families in the street, because at noon they've lost their dining-room service and wanted to recover it. We've seen professors pay their kisses from their own pocket, waiting for the department to arrive. We've seen the washing machines, too, and I can't breathe over their huge work. We've seen the management adapting protocols to schools, landing from the desks they've written, preparing for their reality and setting the arrows from one place to another. And besides, we have also seen some of the authorities presenting their resignation, because they could not guarantee the security measures necessary to their resignation. We have seen, too, one day, and the other, in a number of journals of accusations. And we have also seen the Counsellors of innovations, who did not know what to advise the Schools without any particular criterion. And we saw him yesterday, also, the President of the Basque Council, making the consequences of this institution public and literally saying: "Este incio de curso ha ha ha habido errors." But we've seen it, too, in an educational unit in the streets, just as we'll see Bilbon, Gaste, and Donostian tomorrow. And all these concerns, they have education units, but the Basque Country has them too. And I repeat, we need answers to the thousand questions we have, because three months have passed, and in practice, in colleges, in rooms, in doors, at present, without any great help or means to our professionals. This anxiety is also from March, when we closed the schools, and at once took out two basic concepts from our conversation, with the whole staff of education, with the major François and Irhorum, which we had contacted with all the rest of Maddalen Iror and myself. the work and the agreement. Simple as important: the work and the agreement. Therefore we have introduced this enterprise of today, immediately from the will of anxiety, care, and consent, because it is here and now necessary to take measures which cannot be expected any longer. And that's why we're asking the Board of Education to take up commitments and set up precise measures. They're not our advice. I'll remark that this is the world's Medical Organization's advice. The basics and the commons that are spoken of, the students, the families, the professionals, all the workers have insisted on it over and over again. To descend the ragiots of the classrooms which are piled up, according to the advice of the world's health organization I have spoken of. Approaching the 15th ratio. We know that it is not a demand that can be obtained from one day to another to go down to 15; but we would like to keep it as a matter of reference, as we think it is important. In order to do this, we also ask that you hire a new plan, which is required from the workers' sector in all the sectors. To hire a new planet, the replacements made every year in September, President, because there are no new contracts. Besides, in order to fill what I have said, where there is a lack of space, it is for us to re-establish sub-structions. And the municipal regulations must be paid for at once, even for the benefit of the schools. On the other hand, in all these months, we must recover a great interruption and delay from the student's capacity, and for this purpose a specific and specific plan is either dead or alive in our language. It's serious, it's vital for our language. It also seems essential to us to secure the dining-room and transportation services, to get them back. And that leads to increase the template. Six hundred people, though they look like a fat number, it's not enough, because the sector has reported it on purpose. Even in school, it's a logical thing that would have to insert a school-keeper's figure, but it's not like that. And that's what we're going to ask for today. And finally, with all the sectors that form the education unit, all the sectors, all the companies, and the agreement. After all, negotiation with the sector. Negotiation, including councils, of course. Because speaking is not enough for the moment, as is manifest. Apart from speaking, precise commitments and negotiation requires honesty. This is our contribution from the Basque People gathering. And I mean the indicator of our good will. One said it was the best instrument for the transformation of education, so let's take advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u2	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together represent the Podemos-IU team. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u3	Thank you, President. Good morning, congressmen. Thank you, also, for taking such good care of the Chamber's services. "We are on the first days of September, and we must return to school under conditions for the coronabirus. Coronabirus, but also his management. We wrote in March that when the pandemines forced the schools to close, some of the decisions that had been made out of ignorance were perfectly intelligible." I wrote this new four weeks ago. First, I mean that the situation is not easy, but that the government has the means, that it has an absolute majority, and that it has a perfect integrity in its direction from educationists to maintain it; We made some corrections to this initiative introduced by the EH Collectors, but we agreed on the original initiative, and of course with the medium that we signed. At this point, too, I don't know how to welcome I'm, but I'm glad to say that I'm here arguing with you. During these months, we've made several proposals from the Podemos IU in the institutions to contribute to the management of this crisis. All of it, all of it, it was the U.S.P.S.M. that we had, like, picked up for the moment, out of comparison with the parties that support it. Will it be changed today or tomorrow? "Ojalá" The lock began, and it will be said from the government that the protocols were running, but the means to start the protocols, right? What comes to us is a no. And again, we're not in March. Government has had time to add resources to protocols, hire more workers, and talk to different agents. But it has not been wanted to turn around, nor to the ratio – which I will be told is a low ratio – which is a data that does not bear a minimum contrast with dozens and dozens of classrooms in our territory. Therefore, we support that proposal, irizpide hori, bat cataz 15 ikasle horne bakoitzeko irizpide horrekin. Eta, henera, prest gaude, beast alteratiba batzuk, badaude; hitz egingo dugu, adostuko ditugu eta martxan jarriko ditugu. But we have a problem every year at the beginning of the class because of lack of staff. And this year, of course, it's getting stronger. And I repeat, we admit it's a very difficult situation to handle, but it hasn't been enough time for the government to plan it, really? The government predicted 1,000 extra workers: Where are they? And on what condition? I think Mr. Bilartz will notice that in his meetings this week the directors are asking for their teachers. He sees, you see, that from the government the management of a school had to be suspended to fill up two of the unsatisfied posts and make a demonstration that these two workers should be placed in that school? Is it really necessary, during the whole September, to guarantee the dining room for the educational unions, for the pharmaceutical units? The Orchoral School, the Unadvantical Art, the Public Schools of Barakaldo, the Adurce, the Pagasural, the Altiers, and so many other Schools. We really don't ask PNV to love public school, but at least we want to take care of it. We think it's not much to ask, but we'd be satisfied with doing the Public School Act. And we put the dining room business in our corrections. The dining room doesn't mean anything. School stations are of immense importance to workers, and even from a specific point of view, because they guarantee their consistency. And the situation is not at all good with the schools; it is something that is heard and claimed in the streets in the schools. That's why we've put so much importance on school stations in our corrections. Public school alone – we have said it many times – cannot bear the burden of ending social inequality, but it is essential for equality and social justice. We repeat that the problems we have in our education system are not new to break and strengthen. They haven't been created for COVID-19, but they've increased. It's the result of an anomaly that is taking too long, but right now, we have to reach the 2020-2021 High and the entire course. We really don't understand it. The government now formed and our government is the same, there's no excuse in that sense. There is no excuse for what is necessary, no excuse for changing groups. The party of the chieftain was a group of PNVs and PSE's Government, including the Chief of the Union. Why haven't they hired workers that had to be hired the first day? Why hasn't there been a plan to guarantee the employees who needed bubble groups? Why hasn't there been a plan for opening school stations since the first day? "Por qué a muchas handelas los EPI siguentndo a cupagotas, como ha explicado tote Arrese, quey laborors queen quellare quene quene quene queen los EPI también des casa?" "Quos en septimimbre, no statusos en marzo." No hay excusas para eso, ya no hay bloqueo de la cadena debilis global, y sigue passo. Why hadn't you planned out with Eudel a plan of extra space? The government began with this work seven days before the beginning, and Eudel, too. Why didn't they advance with the professors of education? Why is there not planned for workers and families in digital devices, digital education and emotional education, with the importance of these matters at the moment? Why isn't there a plan in order to improve the attention of students with special resources at this time of pandemia? We really don't understand. Urkullu lehendakariak jarri zituen hautskundeak, jarri zuen hautskunde-data, jarri zuen gobernua eratzeko data. Kurtso-hasiera zegoen angry, bagenekien zein egunetan hasiko zen. Pena bat da momentu honetan Urkullu jauna hemen ez egotea, which I believe yesterday suggested that while the government in office was working the teachers were enjoying their right to vacation. But what is to say is that the last weeks of August thousands of public school workers were also working. And thousands of public school directors. The unit of education made a great effort and a revivor to ease the extraordinary medical education of the establishment, and they've always made the proposals to fun, constantly, constantly and constantly denying the majority. They have been prepared for the neighbourhood, and still more have shown how weak we are all buried in this pandemy. Mr. Bilar shows a somewhat more positive attitude, but apart from his attitude, negotiation, agreement, and resources are required. That's what we're asking for from EH collect and together from PodemosIU, what families, we believe, are asking for, and what unions claim in their proposals and even in their mobulciations. And we're telling it honestly again today that the hand of PodemosIU is stretched out, that it's ready for the concert and that we're ready to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u4	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The Mist team representative. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u5	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are here today to talk a little bit about what education is and to expose all the problems we see. The pandemic has left us with a desolating picture in the educational sphere. We agree on the number of problems we face... which are several, diverse in nature and with different scopes. We have to distinguish several moments when we are talking about a state of the question of education in the Basque Country: the pre-pandemic, the beginning, the ongoing period and the present in which we are now inserted. What was the status of the pandemic? We are all aware of the problems that have been dragging and that have multiplied exponentially, causing our educational system to literally stagger before our eyes. And teachers and families are direct witnesses to this statement. The educational level has dropped. The methodology has not been adapted correctly. The spaces that safeguard the safety of workers have not been guaranteed and it has not been thought – in this case we go to the Department of Education – about the problem of the care circle, that is, what to do when a classroom closes because it gives a positive: is it wise to send the children home with the grandparents, being the population most at risk in this pandemic? Let's contextualize. Let's talk about pandemic times. We understand that the beginning and its development during the third quarter of the school year, all these problems – health emergencies, in fact – could not be addressed in the corresponding way and form. We're here to make a responsible opposition. From March to September, however, there are six months, half a year. Half a year is the time they have had to account for these emergencies and try to solve them. But what have we met? A plan to return to school completely vertical, obviating the educational needs requested by the community. An example of rabid topicality: the obsessive decision of the Basque Government not to allow continuous work in schools. The education delegate, Blanca Guerrero, demonstrating a bochronose paternalism, settles the dispute with the only claim that it is not viable for parents. Let us parents decide what is viable or not for our families, listen to the more than 4,000 Alaves who are requesting it. We are not minors, do not treat us as such. But this is not the only thing, because there is also an anti-COVID argument in favor of the continuous day. Just pass by a school in hours of entry and exit to check that they are real agglomerations. Won't it be better two agglomerations a day than four? You believe in the possession of absolute truth and you listen to no one. That's why they have school banners, that's why parents complain and that's why workers fight. From Vox we believe in education as a social elevator, which is why we are extremely concerned about the reality of model D, which so much preaching has for nationalist parties. Children born in Basque-speaking families and those of Castilian speakers do not play with the same cards. It's not fair. For you, as far as I'm concerned, the most important thing is the euskera, the euskera and the euskera. Subject that draws our attention powerfully, because they speak of euskera, but not of literature; they speak of euskera, but not of mathematics; they speak of euskera, but history does not appear anywhere. And that does not surprise us, but it is the fact that corroborates your obsession with the Basque, that for you education is simple and plain indoctrination. They do not want our children to regain all the knowledge they have objectively lost over the last few months; you prefer to euskaldunize. For this reason, for the problems they denounce on their initiative, and that many of them, moreover, we consider to be just...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u6	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u7	...we believe that the solution goes through equality and solidarity between the 46 million Spaniards with a unique competition. As Rousseau says – it appears, moreover, written in El Emilio–
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u8	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u9	"...that it is necessary to teach the children that they do not submit to any." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u10	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Companals Popular Group-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. I am very pleased that we are starting this plenary session by talking about education, probably the most important issue and in which we are playing the future of Euskadi and Spain, and possibly in which we have had the worst performance by politicians lately, since over the past forty years there has been an educational reform after another, while the performance shown by the students has been decreasing, according to successive PISA reports. Today, what brings us here is a proposal on the adoption of emergency measures for the education system as a result of the COVID. I would have liked a more far-reaching debate, in which we could talk about the chronic problems that tarnish the academic performance of our students, but I understand the urgency of this situation and hope that the rest of the problems of the Basque education system can be tackled with the necessary depth throughout the legislature. It is a pity that the proposal presented at the end of August – and I understand that with the good will to prepare for the start of the course – has been overtaken by the situation and much of it no longer makes sense because at this stage of the course it is more than just a start, which is why we will reject the initial proposal, but we certainly agree on three points, because we have, during this time, perceived a clear will to agree between the different parliamentary groups. And I am very happy about that, because we are dealing with a subject that really deserves it. He said that I am sure we agree on some fundamental points, and in particular on three. One, where we need more teachers and non-teacher staff in our schools. And this, which we know is not free, which has an important cost, can also be a great job opportunity for many people (e.g. teachers who are on the replacement lists). The councillor, as some previous speaker has already said, announced at a press conference on 28 August the recruitment of a thousand reinforcement professionals. Of this commitment, of crucial importance to all, we remain without news until today. I hope that the Councillor will tell us as soon as possible the date of its implementation or that we should not wait any longer. I am also sure that we agree that we need to re-adapt spaces and infrastructures, as we have learned that the current facilities are not suited to the needs of a situation like the one we are experiencing today. And we know that this will require an extra effort, but we believe it is essential right now. And finally, although this is the most important point, I also hope that we all agree that the student should be the centre of the education system, so it cannot be accepted that there are first or second grade students depending on the type of school they study in, whether it be concerted or public. I remind everyone that concerted and special education is also public, and therefore any measures we take must affect the entire Basque education network, regardless of the ownership of the centre attended by pupils. As some of you know, I have been engaged in university teaching for more than 35 years, and I can tell you my experience during the COVID crisis: in March, everyone caught the virus by surprise. At a record time we had to reprogram all the subjects, adjust the contents, change the methodologies, reevaluate or change the evaluation systems, meetings and classes that were present became virtual, etc. This was indeed an important effort and overload for everyone (for students, for centers and for teachers), but we did, and because of this we were able to finish the course in that way, but we finished it and prevented the students from losing the course, which was a very important objective. But at this time we have found something we already suspected: telematics teaching, today, has a level of quality clearly below face-to-face teaching. And one of the reasons – a more complete diagnosis can be made, because there are many more – is that we do not have the necessary infrastructure at home or in educational institutions. That is why it is essential that we agree on a sufficient investment plan to equip teachers, centres and students with communication networks, hardware, updated software, technology training, and that we do so as soon as possible. I know that aid for homes has come out recently, but let's not forget the centers, let's not forget the teachers and let's not forget that it's not just about buying laptops, it's about doing much more. When the course ended and the first wave of the pandemic relaxed, surely we all made the mistake of considering that the problem had already passed, or at least the fattest part, and we did not take the time to prepare the second wave, that all the experts told us that it would arrive and arrived before expected and caught us, as always, with duties not done, so after finishing the course as we could we started the course again as we can: improvising, without sufficient resources, without clear ideas and giving bandages. A clear example of this is that the Education Council published the protocol of action in the school canteens on September 22, 15 days after the start of the course. Well, let's not mention the school transport situation, because we're still waiting for measures and it's been 25 days. Is this the good management with which the government continually deceives us? Is it not because of this and some other small details that the Lehendakari has decided to replace the Education Adviser, implicitly admitting in this way a slow, ineffective and incompetent management, which has then surprisingly compensated with a rapid addition to an advisory post in Lehendakaritza? Right now we have closed classrooms, infected teachers, confined whole groups and, therefore, interrupted courses just start, committed teaching programs, and we will see what happens as soon as the time of the first evaluations arrives. When someone starts to have symptoms in a school, ladies and gentlemen, it is already late, they have already been able to spread the disease to the whole group, so we urgently need massive and frequent screenings to identify the infection as quickly as possible. New antigen tests, for example, reliable and inexpensive, could be a good alternative that should be valued. Therefore, in schools, schools and universities there is fear, there is fear and confusion, because the measures taken are not sufficient, they are neither clear nor much less homogeneous, nor are they based on scientific evidence, nor do they arrive on time. From here we encourage the new Education Advisor to take the issue seriously – now yes – and to do things right, and that implies, among other things, having a relevant scientific advisory council, taking clear measures, providing the necessary resources, a higher level of information and transparency and greater consensus with the social actors involved; in short, to act courageously in anticipation of events and to lead the response that society needs, a situation that we have unfortunately not seen before today with the former responsible. We would like to consider a measure that we do believe would help to improve the situation in schools, and it is the figure of the school nurse, nurse or school nurse. We cannot ask, as we are currently doing, that there be a figure of COVID coordinator in the centers and that this role ends up falling on a person without adequate health training. This pandemic has shown that the education system has a deficit in the early care of both students and other staff, and the figure of the school nurse could help to solve it. In addition, it can be a key figure if we involve it in health training. We believe that the usefulness of this figure is therefore more than accredited, and that is why we will work decisively to achieve its implementation in Euskadi. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate from this point of view our recognition and support for all the teaching professionals, who have made an unfailing effort to adapt to the new situation in record time, with the aim of taking the course forward despite the circumstances. Go from here our thanks and support for your effort and your dedication never sufficiently compensated. They have shown that the future of this country is in good hands. Thanks to all of them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u12	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u13	Good morning. Well, we started, as expected, with the pandemic. The damn pandemic has changed our lives for all of us. It is not a question of the Basques, nor of the Spanish, nor of the Europeans, it is something that affects the world and that, unfortunately, we have not been able to face with common parameters. And one of those that has obviously affected is education. Education, as it could not otherwise be, along with health, is a priority of this Government, and if for anything this pandemic has served it is to show that public education and public health are truncated elements in any decent society that is to be called advanced society. They are essential services that have managed to sustain and not to drop a State that could have gone to the garate without a public health that has given its best and without a public education that has sustained our families and our students. These are services, therefore, essential, services that must be adapted to the serious situation that this pandemic has left us, and that is something that we are all delivering. And I say all because I do want to recognize the constructive spirit that I have observed in the speeches that have been given so far in the rostrum, and it is something that on an issue such as education – I am tired of repeating it in the previous legislature, I will do so in this one – is absolutely fundamental, that the solutions and proposals that are made on the educational issue are made with the greatest possible consensus, and that means that we all have to leave hairs in the catera in order to give rise to that common space in which we can find ourselves. It is true that everyone sees life according to a different crystal, and it is in their right to do so, but I believe that, if we want to be objective, the data right now tells us that the situation in Basque education is being dealt with satisfactorily. In the best possible way? No, I'm sure not. I am sure that there are failures, as they have to exist, logically, in an absolutely abnormal situation, which has caught us all absolutely unsuspecting. But, against what some bulldozers predicted, the re-entry of more than 370,000 pupils to the nearly 900 educational institutions has been carried out in a step-by-step way to obtain the maximum guarantees against the virus, it has occurred with normality, with the normality that could be expected with a pandemic situation. And it was not exactly a simple situation that was addressed: we talked about 82,000 children and preschool students; 130,000 in primary school; about 90,000 in secondary school; 41,000 in vocational training; 30,000 in baccalaureate... I would therefore like to join in the recognition of the effort that the entire educational community has made to make it possible for this beginning of the course to be implemented in the best possible way. Has there been any contagion? True, there have been some contagions in school. There has been more positive, but in most cases it has been because of contagion within the family, which had occurred anyway, whether or not the school was open. And there have been classrooms that have had to close, it's true. Fortunately, not too many; it is still a small percentage, and very few centres have had to close in their entirety. In total, the classrooms that have closed constitute – as I say – a small percentage of the classrooms that exist in Euskadi, as well as the schoolchildren who are in isolation because of positive COVID, which – I want to reiterate – remain mostly not because of contagions in school but because of family contagions. Steps are being taken to continue to ensure quality education in these difficult circumstances and to minimize the risks of contagion in the classrooms. Reference has already been made here, but the Government has already provided for the additional recruitment of 1,000 teachers to strengthen the staff in the centres with the highest number of pupils per classroom. The recruitment of staff to strengthen the school cafeteria service has also been announced. And that is despite the fact that we are – fortunately – the autonomous community with the lowest ratio of pupils per classroom, and I think that makes it easier. Does that mean we have to settle for the current ratios? No, there is likely to be an effort to lower ratios, because in some cases it is physically impossible to establish sufficient distances, given the size of some classrooms. But efforts have been made by the department. A total of 24,361 hand-held equipment has been acquired to make them available to schools, both for students and teachers. In the area of hygiene and protection against the virus, the cleaning service with the contracting companies has been increased, and 500,000 masks are sent to schools every month. Surely, they will be insufficient – I believe that mention has been made of this aspect – but shipments are made. Digital thermometers and hydroalcoholic gel are also being distributed. What is clear is that, whether we like it or not, for a while – unfortunately we don't know how much – we're going to have to live with the virus. Confinement, the closure of schools, was an exceptional measure. In the process of descaling have been recovering transport, face-to-face work, bars, swimming pools, leisure... The schools are the last to have opened. And it has not even been the same in all communities: some have opened very soon; others, like Asturias, have preferred to wait until a few days ago, depending on what they have determined was the situation of each community. But, in any case, neither in the field of transport, nor in the field of work, nor in family relations, nor in school – of course, neither – is there a zero risk. It will never exist; it is impossible, and that is something we have to take into account. There will still be risks, unfortunately, and there will be cases. And we will have to confront them; we will have to stop them in the best possible way, without giving up the schools' continued functioning. Because it's something to live with. We cannot give up face-to-face education; it is fundamental to our young people. The representative of Citizens said this: distance education may be very good, but it will never be able to replace the face-to-face. It's obvious. And I want to put here the value, too, of the proposal made by most of the municipalities, many of them, to offer alternative premises to supplement schools. I think we need to take into account this offer from the municipalities, made from the day-to-day knowledge of their municipalities, because in many cases it will help to reinforce the structural shortcomings that we have in this case, right? And I want to make a reflection here: perhaps it is a moment, too, Mr Councilman, to rethink the Education Infrastructure Plan, because we probably have to take into account new parameters, new needs, new actions that, of course, were not in the minds of those responsible who designed the previous one, because we did not have the situation we now have, and now we are in the right time to do so. In any case, I repeat: the socialists are firmly committed to face-to-face education. Education is something more than acquiring knowledge: values, social skills and skills are not learned in front of a computer. On the other hand, the presence in the centres may not be possible. It is true, and we have to take this into account, and for those cases we will have to look for alternatives. And in this regard, our government agreement already reflects the firm commitment to develop a digital school plan, which will pay special attention and provide specific support to the most vulnerable children. The Socialists have always defended it, and we have also done so in the negotiation of the government agreement that supports this government. Our programme included, as I have already said, the development of a plan for technological investment in educational establishments that would enable technological modernisation, the digitisation of classrooms and the application of new technologies in education, especially by providing students who lack the resources – which, of course, exist – with the necessary means to continue with non-personal, online training. And in the long term, the government agreement also provides – and it seems to me very substantial and very important – for a great deal of agreement between the various political formations and educational agents to pass a Basque law on education that responds to the challenges of the future of our educational system; a law that will have to pick up the case that now affects us, that recognizes and promotes the essential role of public school and its secular character, as well as equal opportunities for learning in all the teachings. I insist that it will be done from the dialogue with all the political parties and with the protagonists of the educational field. And here I want to highlight the attitude of the Education Advisor, who just took possession of it, met with a strike call at the worst of times, in full re-entry into the classroom, and faced it with dialogue and meeting with educational agents. I am sure that will be the Councillor's attitude in the coming months, which we are also talking about in an amendment that we are presenting together with the Basque Nationalist Party. And, therefore, with this intention of reaching great commitments, I understand that this is the first plenary in which we talk about this subject and each political group needs to mark its position, to make clear its profiles, but it is also true that everyone has dropped an offer of dialogue and collaboration. I want to pick up that glove and commit myself to doing everything possible to ensure that this effort of dialogue and consensus that we have seen today in all the interventions, we are able to shape it to meet the challenges that await us in the coming years, which are not going to be very few, precisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u14	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all. I want to welcome the chief of the Union first, and I wish him the best of luck to this challenge in the name of the eulogy party. It is indeed the principal means of education in the most severe states, in order that our society may participate in the active manner. Education is a country project that will help and support our team to get ahead of it. We've said more than once, but this COVID-19, this virus, is a reality that has turned our lives upside down and totally changed the world. And we'll be able to discuss this in several districts for the next few months. As Mrs. Harsa Long said last week, we've all learned a lot about the virus and what we have to do before her and what we don't have to do. We're learning to live with virus, adapting ourselves to this new reality. September came and went, and on September, the academic course has been begun. It has been necessary for the educational system to measure the emergency measures, and these are here to-day for discussion. Returning to school has made it nervous in the whole educational community and in the families. We are facing a new situation, and as it is logical, a new and unknown situation causes excitement. Kurto's beginning has published new challenges, and it's not easy and it's not easy because we're here and will continue to condition our daily routine, but it was still necessary that the educational rights should be set up again in a form of presence and assurance. It is also grateful to the work which the chief of the revenues of the Urires have been in the most severe state, all the work which has been done since that time in the hardest of circumstances. It is necessary, too, that they should be united to the community of education to adapt these measures to the new state. And that's what the department is constantly working on, adapting and adapting the initial protocols to educological conditions, explaining and adapting them in constant conversation with the education unit, co-ordinately co-ordinated with the health department. Regulations, some of the representatives of the groups that have taken the word in advance of me, require more resources. To provide schools with more material means and means for certain environments, to guarantee the safety and health of professionals and students, but these areas have already been established. The Department of Education has been engaged in a permanent dialogue with the educational community since last June, when the general protocol of action of the Euskadi educational centres against the coronavirus, and the document " Measures for the prevention of occupational risks in the Euskadi schools against the risk of exposure to COVID-19", prepared by the Prevention Service in coordination with the Department of Health, were published and forwarded to the centres. In view of the evolution of the pandemic, at the end of August, and following the meeting of the Basque Civil Protection Plan on 28 August, the actions already contained in the protocol were reviewed, in addition to adjusting the dates of the start of the different educational stages and identifying the reinforcements intended for the centres. The initiative introduced by the Basque People in the United States was registered on the 31st of August. Today, October 1, class, three weeks from the start, we can say he's being normal. On the 21st of August, the Board of Education produced different encounters, both in presence and in telematic mode, with the different operators of education. At that moment, except for the unions, it was given to take care of both the public and the continented agents, and a supplementary protocol was established at the beginning of 2020-21. I'm talking about August 28th. During the next few weeks of the year, various assemblies have taken place in order to convey information to the various causes of education, better known, studied, and enlightened circumstances, and to give account of the adaptations or adaptations of the protocol according to the circumstances. I always refer to the situation, because this situation is temporarily highly variable. On September 15th we had a strike on 40%, and on that day the bubbles, the bubbles of which Mr. Martín has spoken, were broken only on that day Gibraltar. The Impact Monitoring Committee meets weekly, and there is a clear commitment to the adequacy and clarification of the existing protocols. A strategy for meetings with all school directorates has been put in place. The updated epidemiological bulletin on the situation in educational establishments is published daily. Over the past week, the VOCID-19 pandemic is going through a stabilization phase in the Basque Country – we could say – and is reflected in the daily decline in hospital incomes and the constant decline in the incidence rate among schoolchildren between the ages of 3 and 16. The coordinator of the monitoring and control programme of the Osakidetza Department of Health, Ignacio Garitano, pointed out a few days ago that the percentage of positive cases in relation to PCR tests remains stable, around 5% for 15 days ago, and that in the specific case of schools there has been a steady decrease in the incidence rate, which is currently in 134 cases per 100,000 inhabitants between the Basques and the 3-16 years old. The latest updated data on the incidence of COVID-19 in schools in Euskadi tells us that there are no schools with in-person educational activity suspended and that there are a total of 182 classrooms closed in 132 schools. These are the last official data we handle. In this course 2020-2021 the Basque education system has a total of 17,554 classrooms, and the number of closed classrooms represents 1.04 % of that total. The effort being made by society as a whole – and more specifically by the educational sphere – is contributing to the ongoing evolution of the Euskadi pandemic. During the last few weeks, I've tried it myself when I took my girls to school, or when I picked them up from school, what pains and pains the students of schools are working on, when they start from the management and go to the whole staff or to the dining room staff. We have to do our parents' work as well as we have to do, and it's working. I know from time to time the labour and effort of the Basque Council, and all the means which the Board of Education and the Schools have in their hands. They have COVID shared protocols between the locals and the schools. On the 11th of September, the Board of Education and Eudel confirmed the appeal of co-working and co-ordination between them. The need for cooperation is to ensure the presence of education. Representative to collect the Basque People has said that this government leaves people behind in its participation. The Board of Government admitted yesterday's meeting from the head of the Board of Education in 2020-2021 study to study colleges, school scholarships, and subsidies. There's a sum of 60 million euros everywhere. This high-school call has about 5 million euros compared to last year. I haven't got much time, and I'll move forward, but we have several examples. He's doing an enormous amount of work around the dining-room service, too, so that he can do his service in a convenient way. But we cannot forget that the management of this service depends on the autonomy of the schools through OMR (that is, even parents may participate). Love public school? We love public school. I love public school. I learned it at a public euskal school. My children love the public euscal school, and our team loves the whole education system, loves and encourages the whole educational system. And so we all have the chance, that freedom. There has been even a word about Ratio: 15, 16, 17? What's the sum? What's the right thing? What's based on? The bureau has objective data. In different patterns and degrees, with the combustion in the general photograph, the average is between 18,7, 19, and 19,6. The cases, then, which may be drawn out of this, will be examined one by one, and will be given a proper answer. Can't "café para todos"
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u16	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u17	And in conclusion, seeing the progress of the past weeks and putting all the data on the table in an objective way, we can now say that our schools in society are safe places. Safety was the reason for the original initiative. That's what we have. And yet we must continue in continual adaptations and adaptations, as I have said before, as we are learning to live with the virus. To continue developing all this...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u18	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u19	I'll finish it. We need everyone's help and everyone's collaboration. Our educational system needs wide connections to face this situation. On hearing the participation of different groups, I have seen decency, decency, and honesty have been brought to an end. And that's enough to please you, it's absolutely necessary; we'll talk and we'll have to talk. And now, to finish, seeing what the department's work is, we have to keep track of it...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u20	Thank you. There's a second round...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u21	... We think we'll protect our corrections for today. I'm sorry, Mr. President. And thank you all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u22	Please calculate the times. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u23	Groundman: The new plan of this week's government Council has been arranged, this week, October 1st. And two, like bubbles, are broken every day at the very moment when students are crossing the doors of the schools. And in the second school there doesn't exist any bubbles. But the situation isn't easy, it's true, it's not easy, but, as I see, we're in front of a self-collected, self-centered government, and we're in the face of a government that's supposed to do everything in the right way. Yesterday I heard President Urkullu say on the radio until September that they were working and the schools were closed, apparently on vacation. But no, thousands of professionals have been working in the summer doing what you didn't do, preparing schools for this pandermy. I will not doubt that his government, the government of President Urkullu, has been at work, but today it is October 1. the office of education is still in communication, in conversation, in meetings, and in meetings. And I think it's okay. It's true that for the past eight years, Cristina Uriarta hasn't done anything in these weeks. And that's good news, but beyond the talk, the decisions should already be made. Eta Gobernu honek autokonplazentzian duel oinarri esaten dut, irakurtzen dubulako prentsan that "The PNV congratulates itself on its management at the beginning of the school year and rejects the criticisms of Bildu". Barakaldon. Baina estertean ni Barakaldon egon nintzen eta "The AMPAs of a dozen schools focus on Barakaldo to demand more safety on the way back to class and demand sufficient resources to guarantee their safety." What is reality? What is reality? Reality is that we don't know where the 1,000 teachers are today. Where are the 1,000 teachers? Why are there still October 1st in some schools, yes, EPIs? Where are the 40,000 kisses that were to be sent to all the schools? Why haven't the city buildings and schools been set up yet? The agreements with the Eudeles are fine, but they're late, and the schools don't have those infrastructure yet. Where are all the feds? The sector has expressly charged 600 workers with the prevention. And where are these 87 million people who were supposed to come from the state? Wait, there are, but how are they gonna split? October 1 and we don't know it yet. And does this government that works all the time, know that in a school, for instance, they have to do physical education in the classroom? Does he know? And what is the solution to this day, that the October 1 should not happen? We don't know. And does this government, which has been constantly employed, for example, that a Barakal parent association has had to buy from their parents' money, from their own pocket, hydrocalous rooms, and camps for security? Does this government know that's been working all the time? The parliamentary officer must be moved from his original position in order to arrive at the agreement, and we have tried to move, and it seems to me that we had proposed to arrive at a middle-way which would be positive for all of us in this movement. This time it wasn't possible. We're four years old. I hope it's possible from now on. I want to finish saying that we have another way of collecting the Basque People. We have another way, and directly with the schools, we have shown the ability to agree with the agents and with all parties. And we've shown that when the Board of Education hasn't arrived, when the Education Department hasn't arrived in time, the computers, the Internet, are guaranteed to all students in the town where EH Collect rules. Beautiful words and intentions, the chief physician of the Union, are demonstrated by the particular thing, and by adding the means, because the means are necessary, and not what is not done, as has been said. And even today's initiative meant it, but we couldn't. It wasn't possible this time, but our commitment is there. And in the last few seconds I want to remember, in Quino's mind, that in one of Mafldum I read that sometimes the winning is sometimes won, sometimes lost, but always learns something. And today, at least, we've learned something. I hope to have a chance of getting an education again, as has been said, to place itself in the centre and get something neat that can't really leave no one behind. Trust and work. You have our honesty.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u24	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Together, Podemos-IU. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u25	Thank you. First of all, I want you to thank EH Collector for signing that middle line we're here. And, also, Mr Gil, I think there were enough points between your text and the transaction. It is a pity that they did not want to sign, and I also say this for many of the statements made by Mr Pastor and even some of those that Mrs Arrizabalaga has also mentioned. And I was saying at first, this situation is tremendously complicated for everyone. Nothing is infallible, and we are not saying, I believe, any of the groups that this was so. And I agree with Mr Pastor on that, and on the issues that you have raised, surely we have points of agreement and points of disagreement. The student in the center, obviously, and the public school in the center. We will see the draft or preliminary draft submitted by the Government in that regard, because if it resembles the basic agreement, I think it is far from those intentions. And on the subject of digitization I think we have a challenge, because it is not only – that it is also – the computer and internet connection for homes, we are talking about training for teachers and we are talking about training for families as well. And we are talking – I also take advantage of it, and it is not only a challenge for Mr Arriola – also about housing. It is not the same a family that has a house of 80 square meters and three rooms, one for each kid and that can study in a slightly more comfortable way, than a house of 45 square meters where a family of five or six people lives. The challenge is much bigger, and that's why we don't put the weight alone in public school, which has a fundamental role, but it goes much further. And he said that with some of the things that Mrs Arrizabalaga said we agreed, but we will review: not a single meeting – what it is to work for some and others in front of the government – with the union representation, if I am not mistaken, from the end of May, not a single one from any field of work in Education until the first meeting of courtesy, and I thank him again, the tone and the tantrum of the new councillor, but we will not dimension..., which is at the moment a single meeting, and it seems that next week will be others. But the Basque Government, which is the continuity of the previous one, not a single meeting, if I am not mistaken, since May, with the workers of the public school, not a single one. I think that there is some deficit in that, and that is why the course has begun and we are glad that the infection rate is very small, of course, I think that is the consensus that we all have, but we lack means. But if we are seeing a daily demonstration, we are seeing the occupation of the public street – which is a word and a precious action – in Bilbao, because there is no dining room in progress in Atxuri school and they have had to, with imagination, occupy that street to claim the school dining room! And that is neither normal nor new normal, that is a structural deficit of the Basque education system, especially in public school, for which this government is responsible because it has been governing for many years. And I think, well, we can all make mistakes, but I think the accusation you made with the bubble breakup, I think it's been a little out of place. I remind you who was with that baton at the beginning of the pandemic, which said that manifestations were the beginning of the virus expansion. I think that if there has been someone responsible, if there has been someone responsible, it has been the families, it has been the teacher and it has been the unions, and I was in that demonstration with all the people, with their mask and with their distance of security, as for example here, so we are with enough limitations. Therefore, let us not slip words, statements that can be dangerous when there is a major responsibility for society as a whole and also, and especially, I would say, for the educational community and the faculty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u26	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mist? Mrs Martínnez? He mustn't speak. Basque Socialists? Mr. Pastor mustn't speak either. So, Eubertarians. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u27	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Very short. Mr. Arrese says that this government, this institution of education, has no self-critics, and that it descends once more into self-consciousness, which is not so. The auto-critics are every day performed, so that this daily work, this continual adaptation, that constant adaptation, because it is self-critic, and there is no self-organization. That's why they're working to get a new situation every day and this whole department and this government. Alone, I don't know, since you haven't heard me before, I said that the plan presented itself on August 28th, not October, not a few days ago. The plan, 28th of August, which is now in force, I have said that those who have been accepted this week are sinners. That's why I'm not getting involved. But first of all, if I didn't understand the contrary, you accused us of it. Eudel. From Eudel, there's a good deal of cooperation from the council, from the schools, and also from the Board of Education, working out of the August, with the right and proper address. During the last few weeks of August, the local councils made an assembly with the directors of the schools, in order to use and agree with all the necessary means, and put everything in motion for that opening of the course of the course. Well, as time went on, we were all aware of that as soon as possible, but as soon as possible, or as soon as possible, they all worked as they could, and saw how it was developed and how it evolutioned. The bubbles didn't break because the professor went to the march. The bubbles broke there at school that day. It's not the same, it's not the same. I think this situation has to get us all out of our usual speech. It's not a question of figures: The sealed ratios (and 15, 16, 20) not 1,000, 2,000, 3.000, to hire more than 10,000 people. It's not a number contest, it needs a deep test. Together Podemos commands or assists in other communities. What has become of those other autonomy members? What's independence like? And it's not easy, and maybe this is an easy argument, but you know it's very hard. This, then, is not the Cyphan (who has more of them) but that the means and resources we have are well used and efficient. And, as I said before, it needs a deep test. The reorganization of the resources we have in our hands is necessary. It has been in this department, by adapting itself to the state, by considering and giving the best answer in the case. Mr. Arrese has given several examples of Barakaldo today. You started talking about Barakaldo, or you talked about Barkaldo. Now in the case of Barakaldo, it will be considered what is best for them. But perhaps Barakaldo may not need a lot of other schools. Your example today was only the Barakal. So what we're saying is: to consider and give the best answer in the case. The commitment to increase the map is here, and the chief physician will not oppose it. But without knowing whether the amount is suitable or not, without knowing whether it is necessary, we see that the house is to begin from the roof. It has been shown that students are safe places, as the objective facts say. It has been shown that new resources have been established and will be established. But still it's not enough. Why? Where are we going anyway? Model change. Did we use this theme COVID-19, from some groups, to reopen your favorite model? Is that it? Is that the point? That's the deal? Mr. Arrese said he's already made a halfway proposal. We've already handed you another one too. A little while ago he was sharing a field with Mr. Casanova, he used to say: "Para bellare acerdos ambas partes there de ceder y actunalidad." We'll all have to act like that. And if the Basque People have said that the Basque Country is the image of the Collectors, I suppose. So, as I said before, this is what we think is best correction. This Board of Education will continue to work, it's a strong commitment. The results go better, but we can't relax. That way we'll have to work and keep ourselves on this level. And today our team will protect our correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. The debate's over and we'll vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by Podemos-IU. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes at the meeting, 69; the votes given, 73; favors 26; the opponents of the enemy, 47; white, 0; abstations, 0.,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u29	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the entire Misto team's correction. You can vote... [[Berber]] It doesn't work, it doesn't work. Wait. You can vote now. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 74; in favour 1, 73; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u30	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. We're going to vote for the full corrections made by the Basque Popularo-Ciudados. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given at table 70; votes given, 74; supporters 6; opponents 68; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u31	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And in the end, Eucabertians and Sociialists of Euzalia will vote for a full-forcement made by the teams. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 74; the supporters,40; the opponents 34; white, 0; abstentions 0, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u32	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Populary Group of Euscal-Ciudadanian-like a parlamentary party-as the committee with jurisdiction in the area is about to diagnose the state of Euscadian wastes which are not of the city, and to make proposals for improvement or reforming the state of these waste-houses, so that disaster like the Horse-houses may never happen again." Mrs. Larre, the representative of the Potula Basque Group, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u33	Very good morning. Thank you very much, President. My first words will be for the families of Joaquín Beltrán and Alberto Sololuze. They are the main victims of this catastrophe, which could have been avoided. The Zaldibar case is nothing but a cluster of misconceptions. Although this is not the time to establish responsibilities, the truth is that I have some idea, we all have it. Everyone there with their conscience, but here, Mr. Urkullu, do not breast-feed, you better stand on your chair, as you did at that time taking several days to go to the place of the facts. I'm not going to repeat in detail everything we all know, are we, ladies? Just remember that something smells bad when we know that Zaldibar's landfill received one of the worst ratings in its last inspection. And I won't be the only one to say that I find it weird, weird, that it would take more than six months to open file with Verter Recycling, right? Well, it is this marshy terrain, which bothers both the PNV and the PSE, which shows that the catastrophe could have been avoided. In view of the fact that this issue is already being brought to justice, there will be a number of matters on which the judges will rule. However, on 4 September, the Department of the Environment received an audit of the integrated environmental clearance of the Zaldibar landfill, and it has already been carefully read that Verter Recycling obtained permission to handle asbestos building materials, but it seems that the Government was overlooked this authorization and that moments after the catastrophe no one remembered this fact, something someone should ever respond to. The report also concludes that the evidence available indicates that the operation of Verter Recycling in the face of the conditions of the integrated environmental authorisation of the landfill deteriorated throughout 2019, and I would add: no one did anything to correct this. This report comes to say –gutxi gorabehera, e?– The audit also notes that landfills are activities where improper waste disposal or inadequate engineering measures – as appears to be the case – by the operator can be easily hidden from sight, and poor operating practices will not be detected in a visual inspection, as often as they are done. Therefore, according to the audit, the operator's responsibility must be to comply with the conditions of the authorisation and to monitor its operations and to inform the competent authority of the incidents and problems. In other words, the audit seeks to establish that those who inspect, authorize and administer do not have political or administrative responsibility and much less criminal responsibility. But let's see, is this the purpose of the audit, limit responsibilities, limit to the operator any liability? Good thing we never believed that the audit we are talking about was to settle political responsibilities, because that was what Mr Urkullu said on Radio Euskadi! You leave me perplexed, lehendakari, ojiplatic. Is the audit of the integrated environmental authorization the measure you take to know whether there are political responsibilities in this catastrophe? I don't know who he wants to cheat on. The audit comes to verify Zaldibar's file and whether what the papers say is appropriate to the regulations and whether Zaldibar's integrated environmental authorization complies with the regulations. Well, look, if I hadn't had that report in my hands, I think I would have guessed its conclusions. From there you were not going to take out any political leaders, just arguments for your apology and that of your Government. That, I have very clear. But, well, we'll see what the judges are up to, because we don't have the capacity to push a committee of inquiry into this House. You, and the majority that supports the Government, will block any initiative taken in this direction; therefore, today, what matters is something else. We don't want to suffer a Zaldibar 2 or anything like that again. We are under an obligation to protect the planet, to protect this small portion of territory and the citizens who inhabit it. And it is a fact that we produce many spills and that we have to manage in the most sustainable way possible, and Zaldibar indicates to the clear that we can and must improve much in this matter. We must therefore talk, debate and agree on this environmental issue, and what we should do to manage the non-urban waste we produce and on which this Government has responsibilities. And if we have to change the inspection mode to detect non-compliance, then we have to do so. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, self-congratulation will lead us to relive Zaldibar somewhere else in a few years. And if risks have been underestimated elsewhere, we need to know, and if we need to intervene, let's do it. And that's why we propose the creation of... Well, we have reached a compromise with Podemos and Izquierda Unita, and I will read it to you to take it into account: "We urge the Basque Government to make available to this House all the documentation relating to the landfill of Zaldibar, both before and after the collapse, and a document containing all the actions of the Government after the accident within two months." Also, what we propose is the "... setting up, within the committee responsible for the environment, of a presentation that makes a diagnosis on the situation of non-urban waste dumps in Euskadi, such as that in Zaldibar, and prepares a report on their operation and management in relation to compliance with the current regulations and that serves as a basis for the elaboration of a law on waste management and circular economy that complies with the European guidelines and favours the monitoring and control by the Administration 4.0". Gentlemen, you create papers for things... For everything you think of. In this case, about the landfills in Euskadi, it is time to create a paper so that we know what state everyone is in and what we need to do to improve the management of those landfills. Therefore, I have plenty of time, but I think it is enough to argue the creation of this paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together represent the Podemos-IU team. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u35	Thank you, ma'am. It's been almost eight months since the horse dump fell. Thus two workmen died: Joaquín Beltran and Albert Solozin. This madness, moreover, produced one of the greatest Eucharistic catastrophes, and even put the health of the citizens near the dump. I'd like to say today: that it is proper and necessary in this legislation, at the first environmental ceremony, to recall the Horse-houses, to bring honor to the families of the dead, to exercise the waste, and to set up an influencies of industry, in order that this event might not happen again. On February 6th, Under the Horseland, no natural accident occurred. The collapse of a landfill is not an inevitable and unpredictable event. And it was not, of course, either, in the case of Zaldibar landfill. We cannot ignore what happened in Zaldibar, and we must demand that all the facts be known, that responsibilities be cleared and that the control policies of the Basque Government on potentially polluting activities be turned 180 degrees. We want Euskadin, in this case, in the case of the Horses, not to repeat justice and mistakes. If we look at justice today, we know that the company that exploited the junk shop-that is to say, Verter Recycling, knew since 2018 that there were problems of stability and that an engineer had warned them of the need to penetrate into security measures. And this company, instead of doing so, quickened the rhythm of picking up the wrecks, and even quickened the expansion of the waste-yard, which was irregularly extended. We know today that the company knew there were cracks and that they were moving the earth, and yet it continued with the rhythm of the exploitation. And we also know that on the 21st of July, the bordering on the 21st, had arrested three wardens of the firm, and that the investigation is in the middle of a criminal investigation. This is Verter Recycling's penal responsibilities, but political responsibilities... So far, I've been asked to be responsible for the company managers, but you can say that he wants to avoid doubting his own responsibility. So far, I'm telling you, it doesn't make any difference, even to doubt it, but, in fact, there are doubts. Was it the direct management after the fall? The townships of the town were given all the information about the contagion of the air? Was the inspections and controls of the company activity correct? When irregularity in the inspections or the security issues in the garbage cans, why didn't the EukMalk take the rubber measure and stop the company's activity? We know, for instance, that for a long time, the company was in the habit of checking the Eucommene security problems, as well as the result of the production of a metamino gas. And we know, too, that the big-shots you made didn't feel like RedMork's Department of Environments. I mean, there's doubt about it. The audit report, commissioned by the British company Ricardo Energy & Environment, seems intended – precisely – to avoid any political responsibility, to justify the unjustifiable. Among other conclusions of the report, it is said that controlling the landfill was practically an impossible task. That the company was truly responsible for complying with the authorized. But if this, if controlling the activity of a landfill is impossible, then what is the purpose of the government's control function contained in the legislation? What is the purpose of the Basque Government in this area? There's a lot of questions we haven't answered yet, and we have to figure out a lot of shadows. Therefore we believe that we must properly form a committee of the legislature to illustrate what has happened, and to illustrate the responsibilities concerning the case of the Horses. We have always maintained the necessity of this committee in our group, and we will vote for the parliamentary initiative to be introduced in that line, even if we can't always present our box. Anyway, we want to go beyond the light of responsibility around the Horses, which is the context of this enterprise. In our opinion, some necessary changes must be given in this area. The first is that there can be no business of our health, of environment, and especially of the lives of the workers. And above all, the pattern of private wastes which quickly seek to enrich must be lost, that we must either model the management or run for a public company. That's why, considering the amount of private garbage in the area, we think it's necessary to make a hearing as soon as possible, to find out how the Eukadian trash cans are and how they work. The second, if we compare the model to which the Euscal Government is now offering us the model of management of debris, is concerned. Our government gives priority to the crematorium and waste which now makes its bets and wastes, which immediately collides with political discourses that make a dozen-points of circular economy and zero debris, and with the purpose of fighting against the change of climate. It is indicative of this inconsistency that the Ricardo report itself does not even refer to the European Waste Directive, which prioritizes reduction, reuse and recycling, and which points out as the worst of options incineration and landfill, which are precisely the preferred options of our Government. We can't go on talking about European policies over debris. The ruins don't burn or bury them. The ruins are resources, and we need to promote the real economy. That's why, as our team gets it in this middle line, we're asking the Basque Mitch to fill up the information about the Environmental Management and make it available to all the documentation on the Horsebar. And in this sense, in order to give this direction to the beauties of the present waste, we demand a beginning of pontiff, that there should not be more tragedies like the Horsebar, and serve as a foundation for the management of the waste, and the management of the economy. Hirugarren gauza bat, guretzat garrantzitsua dena, Zaldibarren inguruan gertatukoari begiratzen vadin badiogu. Gure ustez, ezinbastekoa da – this horrella jasotzen da egin dugun erdibideko testu horretan – hirugarren aldaketa nagusi bat hastea Gobernu honek daukan ikuskapen- eta kontrol-lane dagokienez. Unlike the Basque Government's exoneration of responsibility which concluded the Ricardo report because of the difficulty of controlling landfills, we are convinced that the problem is to believe that these polluting industrial activities can be controlled by the same tactics of 40 years ago, which are based on periodic eye inspections every six months or every year. EAJ has been spending a lot of time giving speeches about entering Industries 4.0, digitalization, the need to go to process automatization, Big Date, and Information technologies. A fourth-0 administration? The number of trucks coming to the dump, the tons they throw, and the technology to control the real typeology of debris, we have. Why isn't it done? Can't you control the dumps? Really? We don't think so. To conclude, the Horsebar must be an inflammation point. No nos veamos obligados a decir como Mafdar: "Pen estae munundo, que me quiero bajar." We hope to remember in the future that Euskádi was able to change the pattern of easy business and wretched management of debris. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto, it's gone. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u37	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days to all. First of all, I'd like you to think about Joaquín and Alberto before we start, and, even, to communicate to his family. It is clear that the Zaldibar landfill disaster, managed by Verter Recycling, has brought to the fore the problem of industrial waste management in Euskadi. Suddenly, Basque society, some political parties and institutions seem to have discovered that, as a highly industrialized country, we are large waste producers, that they largely end up in landfills and that, although the dumping is much reduced, these facilities are and will continue to be necessary if productive activity is to be maintained. Something that those parties that we are in the government certainly already knew, and we were already working on it. Without a doubt, addressing this situation will be one of the highlights that the Government will have to manage, at a tremendously complicated juncture, because the political exploitation interests of the Verter disaster will be mixed with the mistrust and comfort of a large part of society and local institutions, nothing willing to have in their municipality the waste that they themselves produce, as well as the need to give a responsible environmental response to a pressing problem. And all this in a delicate economic situation, in which there will certainly also be companies that will be responsible and that will not be willing to assume a responsibility in this area, and that will take advantage of the economic situation itself in order not to do so. The new coalition government between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party is aware of this, and is already articulating, from the very beginning of the legislature, a waste strategy that will enable it to deal with and manage this problem properly and properly, in line with European policy, without a doubt, by trying to reconcile environmental requirements with the protection of industrial activity. It is not new, since the previous Government has worked extensively on this and other issues relating to what is now in our hands. Without going further, and in particular, the laws adopted by the Governing Council during the previous legislature on environmental administration, conservation of natural heritage and the law on climate change, which was stopped at the ECO, are certainly clear examples of this. There is no doubt that it is necessary to design a waste and landfill plan that takes all these aspects into account and to provide the resources necessary for its deployment throughout the legislature and in the medium term. A plan that must also provide a legal basis for a law on energy transition and the fight against climate change, in which waste management is perfectly defined, as we proposed or proposed in the amendment to the PNL of Podemos and which will certainly be dealt with in this legislature. A waste management plan already worked, which has a horizon to 2030 that incorporates the technical analysis of the waste situation in Euskadi, both urban and industrial, and which is based on concrete proposals and lines of action. A strategy that will also enable it to take the initiative before Basque society and against an opposition that will continue to use this disaster in Parliament and on the street, and that will encourage collaboration between institutions and companies involved in the problem. A plan that, as I said, is already advanced, that already has draft. A plan that, among other things, already speaks of the need to incorporate waste management into the law that I have just mentioned. It speaks or suggests the introduction of discharge fees; the legal regulation, through decrees, for new uses and prohibitions of certain discharges; the strengthening of inspection mechanisms; the public-private installation of intermediate storage and quality control of arid, land and other materials; the public-private installation for the search for definitive solutions to plastic waste; the provision of a legal entity to OCRU (Organization for the Coordination of Urban Wastes) or waste coordination bodies; the green public purchase, the deposit and return and return system, etc., etc. In short, this must be the basis for future waste management. A basis for the subsequent draft law will be discussed in the ensuing paper and on which all parliamentary groups will be able to make the necessary amendments. That is the framework in which we have to work. That is why, Mrs Larrea, Mrs Gorrotxategi, I believe that it would be much more proactive to wait for this presentation to make the estimates and the amendments they consider appropriate. But, of course, this Government and the groups we support, by the time you go, we have gone and returned a few times. That base is already done, that job is already done. All the bases on which that law that we have commented has to be supported are there. Without a doubt, I believe that various issues that have already been dealt with in the first round of this debate in which I make a reply fall by their own weight. You have accused us of supporting a government that is not transparent, that hides information. Well, I will tell you that of the requests received by this Government, in which the relevant information is requested, I can tell you that of the 41 requests, the parliamentary groups have made ten requests that are already answered, signed by Mr Barrio, by Mr Estarrona, finally, by Podemos, by Mr Hernández... In short, all of them are perfectly answered, perfectly meeting the deadlines and perfectly defined requests for information. They have forgotten to say a few things. They mention the audit. The two groups that presented the corresponding initiatives (the original, the withdrawal) have done so. Finally, the audit also says that the Government acted correctly, but they have not said so; that it responded in perfect condition to everything that was sent to it; that it provided at all times all the necessary documentation, both to the Ertzaintza and to all the judicial bodies; that it did so exactly as it has done to the parliamentary groups that have requested such information. Ladies and gentlemen, that the law, that the rules are not sufficient, does not mean that this Government has not complied with the law and with its task. He doesn't mean it. It's clear that the audit puts black on white. What the audit doesn't say is what you want. That's what the audit doesn't say. And they don't seem to like it. You self-proclaim auditors. You are already drawing conclusions that are not in line with a reality. But it is, of course, that the reality that exists, the tangible, objective reality that is in that audit, that is in the courts, that will demand the responsibilities corresponding to the responsible company that has generated that disaster, is not the reality that you would like, it is not the reality that you have built in your mind. Bad luck, but reality is what it is. What we have to do is work, build a regulation, a law that avoids these circumstances and puts in the hands of the government the instruments, the tools necessary for this control to be stricter, so that we can raise awareness among citizens, our companies, that we have to make a qualitative leap in the management of our waste. That's what this government is about. In any case, I would invite you, if you have any kind of doubt and need more information, to request it. That is their job as Parliament, to control the Government, and the responsibility of the Government will be to answer them. As you have been doing so far and as you will certainly never stop doing. In any case, this Government has already hired a team of highly prestigious professors for months to produce an expert report on the causes of the collapse. I hope that we will have it as soon as possible so that you continue to clear up your doubts and once and for all continue to land in a reality that is what it is, and not the one that you mentally built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u38	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u39	Hello, good afternoon to all. I'd like to thank you for following up the front and the editors of the present environment, because this point seems important to me. We all know that what happened on February 6th didn't have to happen: the garbage fell from top to bottom, two people disappeared and one hasn't yet appeared in Joaquín Beltran. And I cannot help feeling that we must always begin to share the pain of their relatives and friends by showing a little empathy. It seems to us that there are so many things which are left unsolved, unexplained, and unpreciated, and that there are so many other things which are left unmovable, is there not? He will speak of the affairs of the change of proposal to-day most of all. We've already registered, in order to clear things, what we think we're in need of a great deal of explanation, so we've asked for an inquiry committee, haven't we? And it seems to me from Populus, as well as Podemos' interference, that their spirit is a little too, that it is necessary to inquire. There's a lot about what's unsolved: Of course, we must find Joaquín, which is necessary. We have a lot of other things to fix on the table, that is to say, hundreds of thousand tons of trash in a mess, and their objective, the precise goal of the dangerous already, we must know, the goal, and we must solve it. The modification of the air, of the water, and of the earth must be solved. That's gonna be a problem for the years following, because of the situation in the Horseland. There are some things to do with health, and no more about the lives of those who have died, but many things about those who worked in the direst emergency, which will give the war for many years around the amania's contagion. And some of the neighboring things are to be repaired by health, because there are medical treatments that have been suffered by the contagion, don't they? And we have some things to settle, for example, the neighbourhood of Ezekalum, which is right next to it, and they themselves are suffering at the present day because there is a great activity there, and they are exceedingly uneasy about it. And, of course, there's no question of the fact that she's undressed here, isn't it? Because, in particular, the management system of the waste and industry has been stripped of its way along with the fall of the horsebars. It's not that it was a question we didn't know before, but I think he showed us cruelly and crudely what we're doing and gave us a few clues, what shouldn't we do? But it seems to me that, apart from the things that are left unresolved, there must be an arrangement here, and about the things that have to be changed, there are some 'compresses' mentioned, I think, although hitherto political responsibilities have not been explicitly accepted, yet we have, in some measure, some admissions, due to the undertakings which have been made, that we have a necessity to change things, and so, in some measure, an implicit record, that things were doing wrong. The iruditzen bath is filled with horretan bide and the horretan pie.Beharreko has inbat gauza, badaudela, azaldu beharrekoak eta onartu beharrekoak dagoeneko. Ze hemen sasi-onarpen bat egon zen otsailaren 18an Gobernua serarazi genuine batzorde batan, and there, lehendakari Urkullu himself apologized, apologized for the mistakes that could have been made, okay? But then the counselors and counselors spoke (speaked St.Joseph, spoke Arriola, spoke Murga, spoke Beltran of Heredia), and no one recognized any error. So, they were excuses that were for nothing. He apologized for nothing, for what could have been done wrong, which is nothing. Therefore, I understand that from there the Government thinks that there is no political responsibility, and now the discussion that is going on about the Ricardo report does not finish to understand it, because the Ricardo report simply comes to answer two questions, and none of them is related to the political responsibilities that could have been of the previous management of the landfills in general, of Zaldibar in particular and of the responsibilities around the live – let's say – the emergency and the measures that were taken afterwards. Therefore, they are drawers that are completely separated. It seems to me, too, that there's another risk here, and instead of looking for political responsibilities in this Chamber, there's a temptation to leave the responsibility alone in court or court, and I think that would be a mistake here, because here, it seems... apparently ilícito For it seems to me here, and when the 18th act of February was made, Mr. Arriola, after his interference, said that no había habido tacha, that no había would be the type of ichún, and that, like a mantra, was repeated. That's what we think, tacha. But about a number of decisions taken in the first hours and days, or in the midst of so many undertakings, there are things of great importance. And some have nothing to do with the fall of the dump, but, for instance, the workers of emergency have something to do with the amianto. And there's an unacceptable delay and an unacceptable decoration between the different departments of the government, which caused the contagion of the amianto, isn't there? Beste hainbat kontu, ezta?, badaude, Osakidetzatik etorri ziren hainbat kontu, Eta Erkorekak, Gobernuaren bozeramale zenean, behar baino lehenago iragari zuenean aeraren kalitita ona zela Zaldibarren, while he was waiting for some analyses that had led to the CSIC about dioxins and furans that could have been caused by the fire. So, there are a lot of things here that, obviously, to our mind, have a tacha. There are so many more; now I am not going to be able to stop, and I will have the opportunity to talk about this when the time comes for the request of the special commission of inquiry, but there are many issues that have to do with the before and the before. That is to say, the whole question of the famous inspection of June and July 2019 is before, but it is also a whole previous policy that came from a long time ago and that was basically based on facilitating – let's say – that the landfill system was very lucrative and, then, that the landfill system served as a kind of push for competitiveness or cost reduction for some of the industries we have here, jumping over all the waste hierarchy that is being given to us from the European Union is abar, ezta? Eta horren inguruan gauza asko daude argitzeko. Horregatik eskatu dugu ikerketa-batzordea. Eta horregatik, hainbat konturen inguruan, sakonki aztertu, eta, gero, aldaketak etortzen direnean, badugu zer argitu, ezta? Everything related to the exceedances of the limits of the Integrated Environmental Authorisation, the percentages and the types of recovery, to the problem of the gigantic quantities of sludge with a large amount of organic matter that were being used and that were being mixed against the European directives... There we have a lot to clear up, and right now I don't have time. Utzidazue, simply, gero edukiko duet beast aukera bat, bathe ez zit iruditzen Andueza jaunak izan two focus bear egokia izan denik, ezta?, éta bi, hiru pintzelada esango ditut. The information, isn't it, Andueza? You spoke of the information given on time by the Government. It is not, it is not, that is, since February 10th, four days later, we asked for the complete dossiers, which fell. When the Maddalen Iriarte legislature fell, they re-entered them, and the Arriola department's response was that, as the volume of information was very large, so we were specific in what we wanted. So that we can now come up with an amendment eight months later and say that it takes three months to give us all the information! Not only that, but they have been asked for the full inspection reports, the full residue reports that were going to Verter, and have sent us just a few brief memoirs, missing – I understand – the duty to deliver all the information. And if what you come to rely on to defend the work done by the previous government, the former department, is in environmental laws, what environmental laws? The zero environmental laws that were passed in the last legislature? Is that the example? I think you're going wrong. Last time, I think...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u40	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u41	...in any case, it seems to me that Podemos has done you a great service at the time of his retreat to the government, and that the amendment you have brought is quite unacceptable. And then I'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u42	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians represent the team. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u43	Good morning, everyone. First of all, as the rest of you have done, we have occasion to talk of it, in the name of all of us who form the eulogies, I mean our memory for Joaquín Beltrán and Alberto Solon, and for their brethren and friends our most sincere condolences. We had two initiatives for the discussion today, and one of them has been retired. One, as has been said, of the Podemos, the other of the Potion Party. And there are also a couple of others in the wallet connected with the subject, one of whom EH Collect has spoken over and over in his speech. We see the entire opposition, the whole (red and blue, tricolor, or the whole red,) in a small block. And we cannot say that we are surprised at this height, when President Urcullu called elections, because it has been a phenomenon which has been very remarkable to us, and which has been the strategy of the El phenómeno iomeno llammenta, in the way we have ever known in the world. We had two initiatives in a discussion: the one has disappeared, the other is giving enough excuse to combine this paradoxian strategy to reflect. Together we filed a correction to the initiative introduced by Podemos, and I'd say we introduced a very close correction. It's often said that every corner is heard, isn't it? We have even now heard that it is apparent that the intention and will of agreement are apparent; you all say so, or almost all of us. At first, however, it has been said that EH Collect has an express will for agreement, which is always conditioned: another pattern, their example, if accepted. I have heard also of the wife of Podemus, who has the will to make an agreement with the Jeltzac party of Eudeia, that they have yellow one, after the elections have passed, I have heard him say this, in order to make him a more patient example. "Expresses de voluntad de acerdo, a mansalva, y, luego, la realidad." The point is, in our correction, básicamente, that we accepted all that Podemos asked for, only with little adaptations, and that it was very easy to make a middle course. In our amendment we were so close to what We could ask that even I, having spent a few years devoted to this Basque policy, which I am quite unbelieving of almost everything, even I thought that reaching an agreement would be difficult to escape. Well, it turns out no, it turns out there's no agreement, and there's no initiative. It turns out that Podemos has withdrawn the initiative for not being able to withdraw from the agreement, which gives the measure of what the politically correct declarations of goodwill are worth. And why is there no deal? "Hombre endemás Urbi et orbe." What this little anecdote reveals is how little it may be, unfortunately, in some euscal policies. Since the disaster in the cavalry, or rather since the elections were called, we've seen how poor politics can be in ours. Eta honen harira, herenegun, before yesterday at the General Councils of Gipuzkoa we had the full of general politics and I used words that left written Javier Landaburu, who was Burukide of the Euzkadi Buru Batzar, in reference to what he knew at the Congress of Deputies there for the distant 1933, in the Spanish Republic, that Republic whose flag so much likes some. And he said: "These parliamentarians, in the times when I was, generally vote not because of the goodness of the projects submitted to them, but because of the political situation of the moment when they discuss them", which is what is happening. "If it is a matter of overthrowing a government, it can already offer legislative wonders, because its projects will not pass. That, undoubtedly, is not to legislate, it is to do politics, but evil." And I have no doubt that, if Landaburu saw what we have seen since the lehendakari called the elections until today, he would sum it up in four words: policy of evil. To debate, the action of the Popula Party is left alone, and we have a correction to the Podemos. We have introduced no correction to the popular party, and we will refuse to those who have been led away. Besides, because we are such, and if we are to do a favour, we shall not be able to impose upon you a treaty which you so much refuse. Of course we have reasons for denying it. And what are they? One: There's an emergency, and it's fun to find the remains of Joaquín Beltán's, and it's working on it every day, without any trouble, there's no power in the world that will speed up that search. Second reason: secondly, there is also a necessary and urgent need to be examined and diagnosed by all the Eukacon wasteyards. Good and deep test. It was in our correction that we expressed ourselves: this work shall be worked for six months, and this lawman will be informed. And even if we don't have a chance to vote the corrections, that's what we're gonna do. And that wouldn't reduce or reduce the job by a power of the legislature. Third: Because we're engaged to the two parties that's made up the new dinner party, and we're signed to review the management of manufactured debris with deep and consequences, and apply all the consequences that it has. What if that was really the original intention of the PP? That's what he says, isn't it? "Propuestas para la reform y mejora"; then let him remain calm, for he will. Not only that: as we expressed in our correction, a title will be added to the new law against the neurogetic transition and climate change, and a title will be given to the circular economy and to the industrial waste. And, for the most part, you can't finish without saying to PP: Watching written by the horsebar v is a pain in the eye. And, well, one thinks it's written on purpose systematically by the Horsebar v, so that the Basques may like it. It is true that in the middle of the road error has been corrected, and, in spite of all, dede luego. And I want you all to have one thing clear: and as we have seen him for many months now, I've been talking about with you alone for today, and, above all the lack of effort to kill PNV, we'll make a good policy. "And you, instead of doing it for the good of the people, go on with your doings. And even if you do it like that, we'll do it. And what was there left to say? Well, EH Collect. Maybe I'll tell EH Collector another, but I'll tell you this: You've made up your mind how to enpetunate your japanese and subjective conditions for social explosions. And the objective and subjective conditions have now failed you. And, really, it must be frustrating.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing the answer shift, representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u45	Well, good. I have a lot to say. The first thing I'm going to start with is to say that the Basque speakers don't feel despised, and less so for me, because I'm as Basque as you, even though I don't militate in the Basque Nationalist Party. The next thing I want to point out is "Let you come to good politics." And what fear is there of voting for a paper? I'm surprised they're opposed to the paper. No diligent management, no responsibility, no exculpatory audit, no commission of inquiry, and now neither a paper that works to prevent the recurrence of the catastrophe? We have not brought here today at any time, nor have we said that we are not in the emergency of looking for the body of Joaquín Beltrán, this you have said. We want Joaquín Beltrán's body to appear as soon as possible, because his family deserves it. What I also want to say is that so much disinterest on your part is striking. They will end up convincing us that they have more interests of their own or of friends, very friends in Zaldibar, than they can confess. And I will tell Mr. Andueza that to come and go before us several times they have fallen a dump; then, you give me the reason. Could it have been avoided in that coming and going, and with the front they carried us, could they have avoided it? But let us not bring this proposition of law to speak of what happened in Zaldibar, but that it may not happen again. Welcome again, I say to you, I open your hands and I say to you that welcome to the good policy that would be to vote in favour of the transaction agreed with Podemos and Izquierda Unita. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u47	From the seat, maybe, ma'am. Well, I'd like to clear up a couple of things in this replication. On the one hand, Mr. Adezana told us there was a report in it, a auditory, saying that the permit was direct, and so on. The question is precisely the use of audits to avoid any kind of responsibility, because the important thing about these audits, these reports, is what question they are answering. And there is a question that is key, simple, very simple and that has no answer yet today, and this is the following: why were no precautionary measures taken and the landfill closed in its day? For example. Mr. Andueza also told us that by the time we go they go and come back. Of course, they come back and fail again and again in the ability to control, inspect and sanction landfills that work badly. A final reflection. It would be said that, from the intervention of the parties supporting the Basque Government, all that is going to be said about Zaldibar is summed up in one thing, and that any initiative that casts doubt on the management of the Basque Government in this matter is forbidden, and that they will also use their roll so that nothing can ever be discussed. Zaldibar with b, b of horn when listening to these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u49	Thank you, ma'am. I, Mrs Gorrotxategi, regret very much that it does not assimilate electoral results, but in democracy, when one gets a certain result and when there are two parties that, although coming from different traditions, agree, form a government and achieve a parliamentary majority, that is precisely democracy. I am sorry that you do not like it and I am sorry that you think that this Parliament cannot be debated, because nothing further from reality. Look, here is a tangible fact: today you have been debating a specific issue here; therefore, get away from authoritarian ghosts of any kind, because here I can assure you that democracy, fortunately, works as it should. And indeed, the audits are to draw conclusions, the audits are to purify and shed light on concrete facts, which is what it has done. Another thing is that you do not like the results of that audit because you do not agree with what you would like, but that is not a problem either of this Government or of our party, that is a problem of yours. Mrs Larrea spoke of good politics. Finally, I might ask you whether Mrs Ayuso's policy is good, but I think it is a debate that does not come to light. And, of course, the presentation you are proposing is not to talk about what happened but to try to put sticks on the wheels and, indeed, to upset this government. We, of course, want a paper, but we want a paper to build the basis for what has to be a future regulation. Of course we, by the time you go we're back! The only party that has put on the table the bases, the plan on which the future law must be based, we have been. And you know why? Because we've worked it out. In any case, today, here, the three opposition parties that have intervened have described it as disastrous, horrific, management, lack of control. Listen, how is it possible that no party has so far questioned, until the collapse of the Zaldibar landfill, nor the management nor the landfill control system we have! How is it possible, how is it possible that they have not denounced it! How could they not have brought parliamentary initiatives here to politically boost the improvement of these tools! How they haven't reported it to date! We can all draw conclusions from facts we have seen. The first person interested in improving these tools is the Government itself. Bring proposals. Why didn't you do it before? Why do you come today to denounce a situation that you did not detect either? Why didn't they? Tell me. Senor Otero, of course, things are unsolved. First of all, the most interested in explaining this is the government itself, asking for responsibility, asking for responsibility. All the damage that this private company has committed is to ask for responsibilities. The government has no responsibility, according to what the auditorium said, because the government had to do what the government had to do. Beraz, in short, questionable questions, of course, Mr Otero, there are a few. That protocols can be improved? Undoubtedly, but, as I was saying, in facts we can all draw conclusions. The first to be able to take them out is the Government itself. Of course protocols can be improved! Of course, at that time you might have had another protocol that would have improved those conditions! But it was done urgently, diligently and on foot, because the first one who was there, once the disaster happened, was the former advisor, Mr Arriola, here today. And of course there are questionable issues, and of course there are improveable issues: regulation, control improvements, environmental authorizations... Undoubtedly, and that is where the government will be. Finally, of course, the Government passed three laws on its council, the Government did what it had to do and carried out the work. Now, my question is this, Mr Otero: what is your waste management model? Maybe it would be interesting if you came here and explained it to us. Which one is it? The imposition of a system that rejected Gipuzcoan society? Which one is it? The export of waste to other autonomous communities with the economic cost that it generated and that forced the government that happened to EH Bildu in Gipuzkoa to continue to disburse a huge amount of money for the chaos that you yourselves had produced? What is your waste management system? The opening of new landfills that you are denouncing here and that you were, however, proposing at the Gipuzkoa General Councils? Or that of giving 45 million to a construction company for having terminated a contract for the construction of something that was reflected in the Gipuzkoa PIGRU and that was democratically approved by the Guipuzcoana Chamber? Perhaps it would be interesting for you to come here and explain it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u50	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Mr. Otero, representing EH Collector. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u51	OK, answer me again. I see there's a urge to play dirty and get into the mud. I think there was and continues to be enough mud in Zaldibar for us to start with these. If we have a chance to talk about waste model, we'll talk. When Euskal Herria Bildu has been responsible for waste management, what he has done is to improve in a very ostensible way, with the parameters of the European directives, waste management, which contrasts quite with what we might call the Zaldibar model, so to speak, in a few words. I make a point, Mr Andueza: you just said Arriola was the first one to go there. I put this in doubt, review the hemeroteca. Arriola didn't show up at Zaldibar... , the collapse was the 6, did not appear until the 10th. And he also made a move that was, as I see it, rather unsavory, which is: he registered a petition for appearance at personal request, because he was the first interested one to clarify this, when he knew that the same 10, in the afternoon, the lehendakari Urkullu was going to call elections, with which his petition for appearance fell, let's say. So, I don't think you have much to breast-feed on what Mr Arriola did those first days, which, in any case, I would like to speak more deeply in another forum, because this is not the time. You said, too, Mr. Aundeza, that government is the first thing that interested us, and that everything that was in the Horseland was in order to find out. Then I come in, a little, to join them with what Mrs. Arrivalga has said, I think it will not be any trouble to form a committee of inquiry, because it is one or of the chief care or ability of this Chamber, prestily, a committee of investigations, and things as much as possible, for here there are two ways of tying things, among others, and there is one way between them that the judicial method will be solved by the fact that the law will be responsible for you, but the political responsibilities are here or not to be explained on this occasion. We won't say it from the beginning, we don't... I mean, we don't have the conclusions. We know there were things that were wrong, and there were serious decontaminations. We know, and, in some measure, the government has admitted with its practice that things have been done wrong; the famous account of the file, after the inspection, had done nothing for eight or seven months, and then the garbage fell and the following week the file was filed. Elena Moreno, who first spoke, and not Arrillah, two days later, on the 8th, said: "Stábamos a shot de poner expedente." And it takes four days. I think there's a certain acceptance in it. There's more admissions, huh? There are more admissions when Mr. Arriola proposes a tax round the trash, because it shows very clearly what it was, what was the social function of the stables and in general of the industrial waste: the increase of the profits against the environment. That's the big jar back here, and you know it and we all know it. In short, Mrs. Arrivalga, I think... I don't know what it's really meant to be, but from the beginning it begins with such insults, some of us do nice things and others make politics... I don't think you've given a very good example to your activities. And you said today that the reason to vote no is that there are other privileges to find bodies. Is that one of the reasons? Who's looking for the body? Are you looking for the body? Or is your job here another one? Of course it's the government's job, even, to find or help us find bodies! Is that why there's a committee here or another committee or a policy or something? But what are we talking about? And you're telling us we're doing the trick? I wanted to tell you something else. You said what a frustrating can be about objective strategy and subjective strategy. What I do is I'm disappointed in being as I am today and having all the problems we're going to solve in the case of the horsebar, that you haven't said anything about it for ten minutes. And it's still more disturbing and more frustrating to me... , I don't know if I'd like to know if you've been wise already, uh, I'd like to know what you've been.....you're the one who suggested the amendment to that man, uh, who was originally made by Podemos. You're saying you need three months to give us information to give you information that's been requested from February? You still need three months? You need six months to talk about the state of the dump? Don't you know what the situation is? And the worst of all, and almost ridiculous, were we not to consider the importance of the subject: you propose, you propose the improvements that can be made here...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u52	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u53	...to do it in a law that is not in the government program. And that's quite unacceptable to me. The government program talks about a law surrounding climate change and your amendment talks about a law of my own uselessness transition. What foundation is this?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u54	Please finish. Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u55	It's been a few years since I left here in the General Council of Gipulia. I come back and I see there's one thing there and here it's completely common. And the fine cover of patriotic left hand is. But you've got some pretty cute, cute... How can you say that I have offended you? As soon as you hear the little things you don't like, you come back. "Wrong! "I don't know. If you apply the same measure to the rest, with all you say, and all that you do, I want to prove that you did not do and say three-quarters of it. Eta, well, gero egin didazu hemen theatre theatre theatre theatre at the n Two laws. I discussed this with you in the elections. You think, too, like others, I don't know, that the titles of the law are imperfect. I'm a peasant, I'll tell you. for me, according to the laws, they are either good or bad, and not according to the title. In any case, this law, whether you have read it or not, will come to this Chamber, and, as I have said, its chapter or title, I know not what in this case is the best legal technique, given to this subject. Eta, klaro, gero, Alderdi Popularreko bozeramailearekin... Hemen daukat pointed at the godana. Apointatu diot berreneko interbentzioan gauza bat, attention deitu didana: on the audit with regard to the Integrated Environmental Authorization, that the signature one Ricardo & Cía. , which supposedly – I think it is, and who believes it is not, let him say it – are audits with large staff But he said, "If I hadn't had that audit in my hands, I would have guessed the conclusions," and, silently, I came here, in the middle of the front, an idea. And it would be like this, I don't know: "And I would be able to guess and even write, with a large percentage of correctness, what conclusions the People's Party would draw in a possible commission of inquiry." And who says the People's Party says EH Bildu, etc. The point is that I've previously commented – I've forgotten to remove my mask; barkatu – about the paradoxical coincidence of the block; for we've seen how it worked for many months, and I'm afraid we'll continue to see how it's going to work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. End of discussion, we'll go to the vote, and we'll vote for the half-directional correction that the Basque Group-Ciudados and the Podemos-IU team have signed together. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting 70; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 33; the opponents, 40; the whites, 0; abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u57	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Third point in theme list: "Phum up the other bill of parliamentary teams, with the exception of re-forcemental programmes for the union of families and labors. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The wife of the Kotha, the representative of the EH Group, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, I think we'll all agree if we say that we're living a emotional disorder, a emotional disorder completely political. I have already observed that this is very important in the art of making citizens a special place in public politics, if we do not understand the complex mosaic of the lives of this country, we cannot give the people the answers they require at this moment. And this is the subject which we bring to the dispute to-day, that of the council. The COVID-19 has accelerated all the crisis above us and all the crisis that ran through our lives. And still more I dare say that we have been led to a collapse guard over a crisis. It will probably not be necessary to bring examples of the experience of the problems of association to-day. There are but few of us who have not felt in this attempt to combine life and watch, especially women, the malbarist of the daily routine of life. And there are few of us in these past and past weeks, who have not abandoned the malabarisms in all these weeks and months, and felt no funnmbulist. That's how we felt, thousands of people, a summer without summer or a summer's mechanism. Thus, in this complex beginning of learning, the parents who have been discovered without the bus or dining-room service, or the parents who are afraid of isolation. Thus, for example, on September 22nd, the parents of the 448 students were in isolation. And what to say of all those women who are the leaders of a single-parent family, of the lives of those who appear at the head of poverty and of all the most vulnerable families. They're a funnbulist, but these ones, they don't have a net. And so, too, the centres of the day necessary in the care-service have been felt, once again, the close-up of the members of the family and the guardians of the family who have the dependence on them, as if they had exhausted the funnbulist. As I have said in an article written on the thread of life, Iranti Mogollón García, a womanminist, and what I have already mentioned here, is a question which I have to remark to-day, behind which more challenges are concealed, and is: What now? A question which we ought to ask over and over in this Chamber: Now what? We have heard that the Pandemia will take a long time, that winter will come hard, that the next months will be difficult, and of course there are many who ask themselves this question: Now what? You can see the lack of direction in that question because there's no answer. It's time to give answers, and I think we're all saying that over and over again, but those answers don't get there. They're moving very differently from the people's agenda and the funniest thing about it. If we go back a little, we'll remember how the Board of Education ordered a closure of centers between the first growth of COVID-19, the foundations of the forum decided to close the centers of social services, and thus many of the workers had to adapt their labours or their labor conditions to the care of the people who have their children or their dependence. A few days after the news prices, I'll tell you how to respond to the crisis caused by COVID-19. In his own words, by his rights, he wanted to give special protection to the most injured collective, among others to the families. After a long week's period of time, when COVID-19's ratings had been introduced and the series of measurements had been announced, the order for the assistance of families was published on April 22nd. It was considered a good measure then to get a family and work together and start an exceptional help program. It was an exception and a temporary program, the rest of the help, the usual helps, the order that regulates them, and the price of the prevention of COVID19, which was to prevent the job or the post of the workers from paying for their wages. Well, these helps ended in some cases the alarm's condition, and in others the opening of certain centers. The fact is that there had been between the "hogeite" of June, more or less, force. We can't give any more details about these helps, because we asked for data, we asked the chief physician, but yesterday the chief physician ordered the extension, so we don't have the data on it today. But it's true that the situation got worse since the end of July and the chief physician told us that we were in a second wave. And a few days later, on the 17th of August, President Urkullu called the state of emerence in Araban, Biscaia, and Gipuzia, and this took some measures to maintain the second growth. But to this second wave of COVID-19, in alarm, we had to face the fact that the simple measures taken to make family and work aggrandizement were out of force. And it hasn't been for weeks, no doubt, in the middle of learning, without leaning on the dining-room service in many schools, in the fear of isolation or isolation, and the parents working. But, unlike in alarm state, I'm sure you won't find it appropriate to set an exception in the formation of the usual measurements, and even in the decree of 2019 that regulates the usual measures, no change has been made or announced. And so we continue. It's a disturbing situation. Yesterday he had been interviewed on the Basque radio, asked the President Urkullu whether the prices would be lightened during the weeks that have been improved, and he said clearly that these preventive measures must be maintained, that it was necessary that the situation should not be worse. Hence, the wants which may arise in families from infections or isolations will not be less than a month ago, the closures of indispensable services (in the case of the day, of the centres) will not be spotal, and we will find ourselves in a study that will be complicated. What we're seeing can be predicting that normal families will have to take care of their children at different times, in the midst of isolation and infection. And besides, we know that this time the working-place isn't going to stop. And if they do not take the necessary measures, guard and alliance will become a nightmare in many families, especially for women. When these exceptional measures were announced and published, we brought in the long discussions about these measures, alas, the Consistent Computation, which, hitherto, helped the system with the same patches as the usual for the union of the work and family. It had long been observed that the same compositions of designs had been preserved in this order, and that, therefore, it was strictly limited by the efficiency of the designs which had long been known. The whole family cop around was talking about a few years ago about the same problems and the fun was the same. The same dysfunctions which were mentioned in the Diagnosia of the family were preserved in this series of exceptional measures: We mentioned, on the one hand, that they continued to penetrate into the ranks of the genera, following from the rate of labouring and schoines, and also without aid from the chance of hiring people to keep up such exceptional precautions for the task of watching, as might be due to the necessities of care and the consequences of the women which had arisen around COVID-19. And you don't need a test to know that's the way it was. We also pointed out the need to correct the lack of a necessary socio-economic vision of the aid, as the way in which it was paid has not changed. It was proposed that the aid be paid months after the expiry or reduction of the working day, implying that families have to remain without income for the duration of the period of the expiry or reduction of the working day, plus the time taken by the Government to resolve the corresponding processing. Something impossible, something impossible for the most vulnerable families, for families without savings, that I want to remember that in Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia were increasingly, according to the latest data from the Poverty and Inequality Survey, already before the pandemic. What about those single-parent families headed by a woman in a precarious situation. The truth is that this point was a powerful attraction to us, especially given that aid, such exceptional aid, sought to protect especially the most vulnerable groups. Finally, Euskal Herria Bildu then presented an initiative to correct these dysfunctions that was rejected by the groups supporting the Government. In this discussion the spokesman of the Jeltza Party, who had begun pandemia for two months, asked questions which were in the heads of all of them: how long this state will last, or what will happen in September with our children and age. It is clear that the need for the family eupscals has changed, that our lives have been turned into a 180 degree. And in order to adapt to this new life, others will need support from the Basque organizations, and the families will need help to unite their families and their labors, then the spokesman of EAJ, and I agree. Eta ohiko kontziliaziorako laguntzak osatzeko edo malgutzeko salbuespen-neurien berri eman zigun orduan. He then told us that we were facing an uncertain panorama, with many unknowns, that it was difficult to answer that day that this initiative was being discussed. And he told us that he knew that the measures taken so far would probably not be sufficient. And for this reason I asked the Basque Government, as reflected in the Bizi Berri programme – and I read textually – "the first objective of social policies is to help, through ordinary or extraordinary measures of conciliation and formal care, the progressive incorporation of all workers into their jobs, and to study the adaptation of conciliation aid at each stage of the pandemic". "So we could respond effectively," he told us, "to the needs that are emerging in the medium and long term, always ensuring co-responsibility in the care of minors and dependent people." He said that it was up to us to be vigilant and vigilant in order to adjust those measures. Well, they told us all that, but a few months later, five months later, nothing at all. Salbuespen-neurian amaierrekin love zirens Bizi Berri program jasotzeko kontziliazio-laguntza horien bueltako asmoak. From this adaptation of the conciliation measures to the different stages of the pandemic, nothing at all. Families have had to face the second wave of the pandemic, without that accompaniment referred to in the Bizi Berri programme. Nothing at all. Bizi Berri bai, bathe "Zaharrak berri". Asmoak bai, bathe ekintza gutxi. That family needs have changed, that difficult months were coming, that they would need assistance in adapting the institutions to this new life, but not too much to realize it. And none of the springs or adaptations that accompany them. Y, poro certo, tampo he encontrado jinción a la revision de statusas en el audo de Gobierno. Now what? Well, it doesn't seem much, really. The only difference from what they proposed to us in May is that in May they were asking the Government to consider adapting the measures and now they are asking it to adapt the measures, right? We do not know – because no one has shared this information with us – whether this study is already carried out, whether it is completed, whether or not the government has outlined the adaptations for each phase of the pandemic, we do not know when it proposes to make such adaptations... What we do know is that the new reality is on us now and the needs are on us now. And that the Bizi Berri program was introduced in May – which are their intentions, theirs, because they have not shared them with anyone either – and that it has been five months. There is no manifestation of the Government in this regard, nor does its amendment clarify anything to us. Our proposal is very clear and simple in this sense. We're asking that the exceptional program for co-operative care and work is re-inforced. And further, to make it truly effective, and to leave no one behind us, we require that they increase in one payment, and be paid in advance, to secure the custody of the children of 16 years old, to foresee the opposition of a guarding person, and above all, not to be limited to the balance of the former. After all, what we're asking is just a screening of what you're doing in that New Life program. And we tried to make a deal. Now we've been talking about it. We have insisted on our honesty of speaking again and again, and have shown that we were willing to adapt ourselves to particular propositions, that our will was to come to an agreement, and we have moved from our posts. And groups supporting the government have even introduced changes into that amendment formed in its universality, have they not? They have, strictly speaking, been ready to show the elasticity in the case of the fibres, and to ensure that opportunity of hiring persons. The point is, when we had this discussion in May, those commitments had already come to the desktop, and weren't the same commitments, right? Baina arazoa, badirudi, nonbait, atzeeraeragintasunean eta ordainketa moduan dagoela. It's zentzu honetan, nik you had to bi gauzak bear argi are better to say it. Not wanting to acknowledge the retroactive nature of the aid amounts to saying that the Basque Government drains the package and that it leaves all the consequences of the second wave of the COVID on the families' backs, no more or less. And in the...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u59	Finish, please, Mrs. Kotja's.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u60	... by not wanting to change the forms of payment, although this is a more than well-known problem, what is equivalent to saying is that the Government is not going to meet the reconciliation needs of the most vulnerable people, that reconciliation is not a thing of the poor and that to reconcile one must have money. And at this point we have become inflexible, and it seems to us that it is an issue that we can no longer pass, because this, as I have said before...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u62	... It's something we know beforehand. The measurements are now needed, now and here, and these are very old problems.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, Mr. Hernandez, representing the Podemos-IU team. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u64	Good morning, everyone. Well, I am going to skip the graphic description of the more than complicated situation in which many families find themselves when it comes to reconciling, above all, in this situation, because I believe that Mrs Kortajarena has already made a good description, and I also believe that all of us in this Parliament, to a greater or lesser extent, believe that we are aware of it and I believe that it certainly affects all of us. We think that the exceptional measures to facilitate the reconciliation of work and family life, which have been promoted by the Ministry of Labour in what has been called the "Take Care of Me" plan, we think they have provided a first and rapid response to alleviate the additional difficulties that the pandemic has brought to the complicated situation, as I said, of conciliation in our society. We think that the possibility of taking advantage of these exceptional reductions approved and which have been extended until the end of the year or until 31 January – if I remember correctly – is certainly an advance and good news, and we think that we must defend and maintain them as long as is necessary, and that is why I am appointing it in this debate, and because they are obviously related to the initiative that is being brought to us today. But let us also add something else from our group: we are aware that they are insufficient and that we must go further. We think that the Government to which we are a party in the State is doing a good job in this respect, and the minister, who belongs to my political organization, is doing an excellent job, but we think that we should also go further on the issue of care, particularly in this pandemic situation; for example, so that this does not mean a loss in the wages of the workers, because there are many families for which those incomes are fundamental, and when they are lost, they are really very complicated to take advantage of certain measures which are in themselves good. So we do not fall for rings to recognize that, despite the good steps taken in the right direction by the Government of Spain and by the Ministry of Labour that we run, we have to go further. We believe that we must transform many of the measures that have been taken exceptionally at the moment into permanent rights. But that said, together with the improvement of labour rights related to conciliation we have public tools and we have competences in this Parliament, or rather in the Basque Government, we have public competences that we must use to improve and ensure the reconciliation of workers, measures that make surpluses more effective, reductions in the time spent caring for dependent persons, both ordinary and those arising for the reasons of COVID, and among them, without doubt, the aid approved in that order of 22 April to which Mrs Kortajarena referred and to which the initiative of the EH Bildu group refers. We agree with the proposing group: these aids can and must be improved to meet the objective of ensuring reconciliation and care for working families. I think Mrs Kortajarena mentioned this: they have already brought this initiative to the Permanent Chamber a few months ago and, of course, they have our support and our affirmative vote; unfortunately, not with the support of the Government and the groups that supported the Government and that support the new Government, which is the same. And today, of course, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we maintain the same position and we point out that these aids have to be available to all those people who can accept the work measures that have been authorized from the Ministry of Labour and that allow new assumptions to access time reductions. And it involves doing so to all, in our opinion, from the beginning to the end, so as not to generate discrimination – and hence the importance of retroactiveity – and maintaining such exceptional aid at least as long as exceptional measures are maintained in the field of work. We support the concrete measures proposed by the EH Bildu Group in its original initiative; logically, in our amendment we do not collect them because it would simply be to make a "cut and stick" of the original group's initiative, and for that we could have done as the Permanent Chamber and simply vote in favour, and point. We think it is very important – and so I also defended it in the Permanent Chamber – the question of the advance payment, not so much for the sole, but for the advance payment, because for many families it is fundamental; because many families, if they know that they are not going to receive the money prematurely, are not going to accept day-to-day reductions that would mean a decrease in their wage income, in the income that their family needs at that time. Because work may be missed, measures allow, but we must continue to eat, and therefore that seems very important to us. Ensure the necessary budget allocation to ensure that no one is left without such measures. It seems to us to be a measure which avoids discrimination and which also advances in law for this type of aid. Similarly, the same goes for improving aid, something that is especially necessary for the most vulnerable, for those families that have less savings, for those who have more precarious wages, etc. And the measure of extending to the age of 16 is certainly the least important, but when we talk about exceptional measures, and because of disease, of COVID, to us we seem to have to care for a person who is 15, 16 years old seems to us that it is adjusted, that is fine. And, of course, incorporate the line of hiring care staff. We think this is urgent right now. We agree with this measure, above all, in the current situation where families cannot wait. But we also say something else, we think that there is a substantive issue here that is not solved by aid for the recruitment of care workers alone. We think this is positive, we support it, but we think that the underlying problem has to be addressed by other measures, and more powerful measures, because we think that care, care for dependent persons, for minors, etc., should be a social obligation and not a problem in the private sphere, even if it may be subsidized, an obligation of society as a whole. And, therefore, we also advocate establishing the necessary tools to ensure that care is guaranteed from the public sphere and with public co-responsibility as well. We believe that a public care system is necessary. We believe that, in this sense, a new right must be acquired and that the pandemic has come to put something on the table that was already there. And we believe that this right should be guaranteed from the public standpoint. It is a task that we take very seriously in Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita and in which we are aware that we must also listen to all the parties involved, and that is precisely why we do not want to run and we have also presented an initiative that is going to be discussed – if I am not mistaken, this is the next point – so that in this Parliament a paper can begin to work to address the care system. Many measures can and must be taken from the workplace to improve and ensure the reconciliation of work and family life, and I am of course a fervent follower that these issues are addressed from the workplace. But the task of caring for dependent people, we think that it is not solved only by labour reforms, we think that care is a right and we have to conquer that right. Then we will discuss how the model should be, but we need to ensure care as a right, with COVID and without COVID. But in the initiative we are discussing today, we are talking about very concrete aid. We join the initiative of the proposing group. We have reached an agreement with them and with them that, if it were at least partially assumed by the Government, we are sure that it would be a very important improvement for the working families of this country in this situation, and we are also convinced that we are not talking about intractable economic amounts. Everyone is very happy that we can expand the tax margins in their day with the deficit, etc. Such an increase in margins has to be used precisely for such measures, not for others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u65	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, first of all, I'd like to mention a form of correction that has been divided between EH Collector and Podemos, which has been signed for the purpose. I think here, let each one use the language he wants, but here the corrections have always returned. Here, I have no problem, but there are other groups of people who don't understand euphora, and it would be convenient, Your Honor, this text...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u67	No, he'll be back by now. Always in two languages.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u68	I said it, and they told me it's only eruption.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u69	Yes, but he always comes back. He comes a little later, but he'll be back, probably. Always. There is no repentance that ever comes in one language. I'm sure they'll be back... but I don't know, probably.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u70	Okay. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u71	Yes, yes. We'll move on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u72	Well, Mr. Hernandez, I think it is all right, on the one hand, that you should mention the politics which your Minister here makes in the Spanish area, but it would be convenient here, as we have the exact jurisdiction, to speak of this particular subject in society and society. We've talked about this subject here several times, and he's also the same chief physician. And from this point of view it is grateful, and I think it is good, because, in the end, it is not new, he knows what was done and what had not been done. Well, during the previous law for Popular Party, families were held to be a priority. According to this, we introduced a number of interpelations and motives. And at that moment we said that the balance wasn't positive, and we thought it wasn't enough for this government to do, and besides, knowing that this is the reason why I mentioned it. We didn't see an integrated policy and we didn't see the real help policy, directed to the Basque families. And that's why we introduced a lot of initiative. He said that for the People's Party last parliamentary term, family policies were a priority. This legislature, the People's-Citizens' Coalition, we have considered that family policies also need to be a priority, and in this regard we have already put forward some initiative on this issue, such as the Government's elaboration of a plan to address the demographic challenge. We have been critical, Madam Counsellor, and I was saying that on the one hand, of course, I am glad that you continue in the Government because I think it may also be good for you to continue the same person, because you know what has been done and what has not been done. I believe that there have been shortcomings in management, and I do not say that they are all attributable to you; possibly there has also been a lack of leadership in this matter by the Lehendakari himself, with unfulfilled promises: how many times have we heard him talk about the famous demographic challenge strategy, which, unfortunately, we still do not know in this House. The approval frameworks for specific family support measures were delayed, the evaluation of the third plan was late, the fourth plan, of course, was also late. There was a delay in approving the tools needed to implement specific tools to support families. You know that your star measure, the decree regulating paternity surpluses – by simplifying it – came also late, a year and a half later, which you announced further in the full face of the demographic challenge. I also have to say here – and this is something that the People's Party regrets – why the past legislature did not meet many of the commitments made in relation to this group in the specific budget lines of support for families, precisely because those tools, those decrees, were not approved or promoted with due speed. Well, it's e el bullete. El Ballance deja mucho que desear, indudablemente. In this law these policies must be a priority, and it is probable that things which were not done during the preceding law must be done at the moment as soon as possible, and that the exact measure should be made for families, and especially directed to families who are in this serious condition. Hemen Bilduk proposed bat aurkezten du. Guk proposed ekimenekin esan dezakegu i ados geundela, well, ñabardura batzuekin, eta horrexegatik gure zuzenketa orokorra aurkeztu genuine. Hemen aipatzen da, refers to an order regulating measures directed at families to respond to the situation of COVID. They are measures, as we all know, according to what is specified in the order, of a temporary and exceptional nature. They are not currently in force because they were confined to the situation of the state of alarm, which, as we all know, ended on 21 June. Since the Popular-Citizens parliamentary group coalition we consider it opportune to address this situation, because, undoubtedly, the circumstances of many Basque families have not changed, the situation of vulnerability, the situation of necessity, and in this sense I believe that from the department headed by Mrs Artolazabal there is a need to respond to the requests and, above all, to a demand that continues to exist there in relation to alleviating those situations of vulnerability that may be accompanying many Basque families; hence, well, the opportunity of this initiative. We have amended it, and in the end we have reached a compromise on the part of the Elkarrekin Podemos and Bildu group, which we are going to support because in principle it covers the aspects that we were proposing: obviously, that this order be revised, that deficiencies be corrected, therefore we understand that there are some aspects that are likely to improve, all that has to do with the retroactivity of these aids, the way in which they are paid, the amount of them, and an issue that we think is important and that has also been brought by the groups concerned – and I would also like to thank the various associations and people working in the third sector for their contributions – is the possibility of incorporating a line of recruitment of care staff, among others. Therefore, these aspects that we raised in our amendment as a whole have been taken up, and in this respect we will support the compromise amendment. I have to say that, although we have also made attempts – and I believe that, well, that is the effort made by all groups – to be able to approach positions with the Government, it has not been possible. I believe that the Government should also abandon a certain position of self-congratulation in this matter, and I do not say that it amends itself; it would be good for Basque citizens, but I know that it is difficult when it comes to a government of the same colour, and governments do not usually do that, and less so in these circumstances in which you can apply the roller whenever you see fit. I do not think it is good for you to devote yourselves to implementing the roll and simply to adopt your amendments; and above all, to policies which are fundamental pillars and which must also be an absolute priority for this Government. In that sense, I believe that your amendment is short, does not refer to order, it is very generic and in this group we are convinced that we need to go a little further down in family policies. That is to say, we have a long way to go, there are instruments on the table; it is true that some have arrived late, that not all expectations have been met, that the commitments of the Government some have not arrived, some have arrived late, but we cannot simply be presented with an amendment stating that the aid should be adapted to conciliation "... in order to respond to the needs that may arise in Basque families...". I think this needs, out of respect for the people who are having a bad time, a greater realization. And then, "Guarantee the co-responsible care of dependent minors and older adults, so that this care can be compatible with the working life of family members." I believe that this too is an overly generic pronouncement. Previously this can be supported, but it does not say anything in the situation in which we are, and, above all, when, as I say, this particular group has presented many initiatives in the past legislature demanding specific aspects. I believe that today we have an initiative, gauza zehatzak eskatzen dituena, éta ildo horretatik bat datorrena, azkenean, guk proposatutako zuzenketarekin; bada, laguntza emango diogo sinatutako zuzenketari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u73	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u74	Andrea: Thank you, President. Of course, we have discussed on numerous occasions in this Parliament policies to support the family in the previous parliamentary term, in the eleventh parliamentary term. And we also have to bear in mind that in this interim, obviously, there have been a number of effects as a result of the pandemic that we have suffered and that we continue to suffer right now. But that does not take away to put into value also where we started in the last legislature. In the past legislature, numerous measures were taken by the Government to promote the reconciliation of work and family life. The VII Plan for Equality of Women and Men addresses the need for care. The Basque Government approved the Strategy of the operational plan to reduce the wage gap in Euskadi within the Governing Council of November 2018 and the 4th Support Plan for Families and Children 20182022 was approved. We also had a specific family monograph in March 2018, and everything agreed within that monograph was collected within the Fourth Support Plan for Families and Children, where we had the opportunity to discuss measures to support families in our Autonomous Community in a broader way within that plenary. And that's important because the results of the strategies are achieved over the years, and that requires a global strategy that doesn't change every little time but is maintained and sustained so that the results are as long as possible. It also implies the need and goes hand in hand with cultural and social change within companies in the area of co-responsibility. My group, the Basque Socialists, have on numerous occasions reiterated that we cannot base this overall strategy on short-term policies based primarily on assistanceism, aid for conciliation, but rather must cover broader aspects and we must move towards a European model. We also start from the fact that we are the autonomous community with the most social support for the family, which is increasing every year. And having a global strategy does not prevent us from delving into the measures that go beyond aid for conciliation, because the same plan highlights the need to turn in this direction to the European model. It is important to highlight where we are going, but we should also take into account the extraordinary effects of this pandemic and the effects it has had on Basque families. It was for this reason that the aid provided for in the Order of 8 April of the Council for Employment and Social Policy, which regulated specific measures to support families in order to be able to respond to the economic impact of COVID-19, was approved. These requests could be submitted after the state of alarm had been completed. Our commitment is to continue to work to address the reconciliation needs of families and to adapt the regulations to those needs. In our amendment to the whole, the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group urges the Basque Government, on the part of the Basque Parliament, to adopt measures to adapt these aids to conciliation, in order to respond to these needs that Basque families may suffer, arising from the full impact of COVID-19, and also to ensure the co-responsibility of children and older dependants, so that this care can be compatible with the working lives of family members. We have made an effort to try to reach transactions, both with the proposing group and with the other groups in the House. An effort has been made and we have not tried directly to say "Well, we have this amendment". The proposing groups know that we have tried to implement that agreement. Sometimes it is achieved and sometimes it is not, because it is intended to reach an agreement, but in that agreement, therefore, if it does not agree with everything that the proposing groups want to put into that compromise amendment, then it may not be possible in the end to close and conclude that agreement. But that does not stop so that, of course, all the necessary efforts have been made to achieve this. The initiative submitted by the proposing group, as it has stated, calls for the aid to have retroactive effect, to change the way it is paid or to increase its financial resources. The Basque Government, of course, has to assess what adaptations are most convenient at the moment, and this change, of course, involves a lot of complexity. For example, making a change in the form of payment implies a complexity and management problems which, of course, must be assessed before such a decision is taken. And as far as the increase in quantities is concerned, we have shown that the reality is that in the end far fewer applications have been submitted to this order than was thought to be being submitted at the beginning, with which there has been no problem of lack of money, but quite the opposite. But, well, you have to study and see how you could rethink if you want to take them out again, so, given the changing, uncertain situation, in which we move, we at our first point talk about adapting those existing needs. The proposing group then also referred to the extension of such aid up to the age of 16. Well, you'll have to study if that's considered important, you'll have to see how old the best can be. Why 16? Why not 14? Why not another age that could be defined as more convenient? That is why, in the end, we have not been able, despite the efforts, to sign this compromise amendment, and we will therefore support our amendment as a whole. In the middle we have been trying to expand the same. It wasn't possible. We will support the amendment as a whole initially tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u75	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u76	Chief of Parliament, ladies of departments, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I will not mention in my discourse the situation we all know, the collective side of individuals. Before this, however, we must answer as a people, an answer to the circumstances which have arisen and may arise, to the giving of an appropriate answer. In line with this, the specific measures that have been considered most appropriate in the area of support for families are, on the one hand, the articulation of a programme of assistance for the reconciliation of family and work life, aimed at working people in active employment who believe that, as a direct result of the actions and measures taken to combat and manage the health crisis caused by the coronavirus, they have had to assume the duties of care, care and care of their children on account of their age, dependent persons or sick, infected or isolated persons who have been affected by the coronavirus, with special attention being paid in the latter case to the elderly group made up of grandparents and grandmothers, as one of the most vulnerable groups against the coronavirus. And this is why the order of April 22nd this year came into being. Salbuespenezko program hours independent age aldi batarakoa zen, age family age wool bataragarri egiteko laguntzei buruz urriaren 22ko 164/2019 Dekretuan araututako laguntzak osatuk zituena. Eta konpentsatu egin nahi zuen goian aipatutako was part of the lagoon, arrested eman eta haiek zaintzeko lantokia edo lapostua edo edo partiz uzzi behar izan zuten langileen soldier-murrizketak zekarren diru-sarreren jail. On the other hand, and in relation to workers in situations of overwork who may be eligible for aid to equalise the periods of contributory benefits for the birth and care of a person less than one year enjoyed by the parents, to make it easier to require that the parent who is not overworked must be in active employment for the entire period eligible in those cases where, having been incorporated into his or her employment and being discharged, he or she has completed the full day of his or her contract, he or she has been suspended on the basis of the various actions and measures put in place to combat and manage the health crisis caused by the COVID-19 coronavirus. The first measures referred to demanded a necessary solution, which might have been identified by the person who had been benefited by these extraordinary aids, and on the other hand by the amount of activities and number which could be supported by money. Besides, he would explain all the other points which were necessary to be applied and carried out properly. The second measure, however, was sufficient to give an example, and to give an answer to the matter of regulating the rule. For a general regulation, established by certain regulations of action, had already regulated the application, to an exceptional and temporary state of execution and management, before it was admitted or foreseen. As you know, the strength of this order ended with the alarm, but here we are now. Those who are here said, without an alarm, serve happily, without an alarm; and we are in the adaptation of a state which was not to be foretold or foreseen, as was intended by the April order. Hence we think we need a new order, which is adapted to the assistance of cooperation, to answer the wants due to the necessities of the Euscal families by the influence of COVID-19, and to maintain the reproach of the ageless and elderly of the subject, in order that this care may be compatible with the working life of the members of the family. And in order to be able to guess in this arrangement, we need flexibility to the state of uncertainty in order to give us the best possible solution. Flexibility of commitment, but pliability after all. And if this be shared and agreed, so much the better. In this alter we call positive to the demand made from the several groups to re-establish the order, but we cannot protect such demands as retrogency, because it is not possible to assign them. Nor is it possible to give money at the time when it is required, first, because it is necessary to examine the files, and to avoid such as are thought unnecessary. But there is also another reason, which is conformable to reason, which is often required to facilitate it: It may be more complicated for families, and it is necessary to repeat it several times. There's another request, that they may be guarded as far as 16 years old, by the benefit of these supporters. It seems to us that even to 14 years old, we'd have enough because once 15-16 people are looking at a more autonomous life and they can have their autonomous care. And besides, this criterion of 14 years, well, is marked by the Civil Code, and the Civil Code itself gives the right to decide in certain respects, at least, over 14 years. On the other hand, we agree that we enter between states where the order of hired laborers can be foreseen. It's done and it's done, but maybe we need to make a stronger structure. And one of the media proposed that the adjustments of the numbers as the last point were adapted to the volume of the demand, that is, I shall repeat what I have already said, in the belief that the idea is the same, but that we should often determine the interpretation of what we all say. In order to give the best solution, we need a flexibility to the state of uncertainty, a plexibility full of commitment, but, after all, flexibility. And if this be shared and agreed, so much the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u77	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Mist won't participate. So, passing over to the leader of the answers, the representative of the EH Collectors. Madam of the alibi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to know exactly where the government is, where the question is to agree with the proposal that's been discussed to-day, why it seemed to her first growth that she should take the measures of subsidy, that's not now seen fit in that second wave. Mr. Faraway has told us that we need a new decree, but we don't even know why he'll be here for the last five months. And I doubt, because this proposition does not agree with all that you have expressed in the New World's program. Isn't that a distraction from their plans? Isn't that a thing about them? Exactly, possible, and capable? What's the problem of keeping those measures that can be effected, capable, and immediately operational? And why can't they be corrected for once? Why can't all objectified, opposed, known to us, and all those problems that are in the design of these helps? Why can't they be corrected? What is the reason behind that? Because these design problems are not what the Basque People talks about, they're not some problems on the design of collecting the Basque People. He now spoke of many years of Arts, and also mentions the diagnosis of family plans. It says so. I mean, it's nothing new, it's nothing new. It only happens that the consequences of it are extremely serious, and that if they do not correct it, there are thousands and thousands of people who are excluded from these helps. Mrs Sánchez said that, well, that then you can see that the aid is not being applied for. And have you not thought that perhaps, as all the reports say (the Ararteko report, the diagnosis of the plan or as mentioned here on the numerous occasions we have had to discuss this subject), this may be one of the reasons why the most vulnerable people cannot, cannot, do not have equal opportunities to access these aids? It's just that they're... Mrs Artolazabal is here, this is something that is known, objective, contrasted and shared. And I share that because Mrs Sánchez mentioned the family monograph and this group agreed, with all the groups in the House, including those who support the Government, and with the Government, to review these aids precisely in relation to these aspects: the form of payment, ownership, amounts... You promised to do so and the Family Plan arrived. And that Family Plan didn't pick up that review. And we brought him back to the debate. And you said, as Mrs Sánchez said today, that strategies cannot be changed. You said so and voted against it, but the reality is that this design problem that prevents thousands and thousands of people in a more vulnerable situation from accessing this type of aid, and that makes it a fairly important socio-economic bias, remains in place; you know it and keep it because you have not changed it. And what exactly is your offer? A new secret that will come? When? When? And look, el obstinacy de la retroactividad. [[Shows some graphics.]] This is the period of the pandemic that has been covered by the aid and this is the period that has been covered without the aid. This is what we're talking about when we talk about retroactivity. And, of course, the way you pay, I think it's already something you can't escape. I think we've lost a chance today, and we've lost a great opportunity to respond to a real concern in people and people's schedule and give them a positive answer and a possible one at once. A loss of opportunity, another one, because our agreements are already rusted on this subject, and your agreement is already known. And now that Quino's story has been mentioned, I'll end up with Quino, because the conversation with the distant ones reminded me of it, Ander Rodriguez has shown it to me before. [[He showed us a visa.]] Esaten zuen andereñoak: "He who has not understood, let him raise his hand." And raise your hand Manolito. "Let's see, Manolito, what don't you understand?" And Manolito answers, "From March until now, nothing." It was you who had niri, age askori era, hemen hori geratazzen zagiula.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together, Podemos-IU. Your word, Mr. Hernández.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u80	Very briefly. First, to clarify something. To Mrs Garrido, whom I have not come to talk about the Government of Spain or the Ministry of Labour because it is the ministry that we carry or for nothing, but because this initiative is directly related to these exceptional measures, to these reductions in working hours. I don't know if you have read it – I suppose yes, I hope so – the Basque Government's decree we are discussing, and there you will find – I don't know how it is written, I don't know how it is said in the slang – eligible issues; you are talking precisely about those reductions, and that's why it seems to me important and fundamental. And I also want to say to Mrs Sánchez, because I think you have said one thing that I think is very important in this. He says, "Less applications have been submitted...", I don't know how he said it, if "... of the expected...", etc., when we talked about the amounts and the amounts. And it is precisely that we think that this is the proof that these aids are poorly designed, because we do not believe that it is not a need of families at the moment – especially at the moment, with this pandemic – this type of aid for reconciliation. If in a normal situation it is very complicated for many and many workers to benefit from a reduction in day care, even if it is a right, even if it is a right, that you plant yourself in the company and say "I welcome this reduction in day care"..., we know that that is not so simple, we know that sometimes they look badly at you in the job, we know that sometimes there are workers who consider it very difficult to stop doing the job they are doing because it is not going to be possible to get ahead. Therefore, it is not so easy, and therefore we think that one of the fundamental problems for people not to accept this type of aid – and, above all, for families with fewer resources – is that of the economic quantities and the fact that it covers everyone. And another, of which we have spoken before, is the prompt payment or whatever you want to call it, because, if I'm going to take a day off, I'm going to reduce my salary, I need it to get out every month, and they tell me that the help they're going to give me will give it to me within a year, because there are a lot of people who can't take that off, and that's what people know. Well, people don't accept these reductions and people don't ask for the aid that goes hand in hand, let's say, with these kinds of measures, and that's why sometimes there aren't as many applications as we should expect. That is why we believe that including concrete measures is good and necessary. We can understand that you, that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, which support the Government, cannot sign certain things, know that you cannot catch your fingers, but we think that in a matter, moreover, like this, which is being discussed also, as has been said before, since the time of the Permanent Assembly, if the will expressed also by Mr Urrutia is really to improve in that direction – in the direction they say in his amendment – this type of aid, we think that it was time that you included some of the specific issues, some of them. I've been in the negotiation, we've been in there before; I think there's been a willingness to negotiate. Look, the only one who hasn't had the will to negotiate is me, I recognize it, because I said, "We agree, we agree with what you propose; if you come to an agreement, we sign it." And I think there has been a willingness to agree, but there were issues where your groups are not willing to oppose the government, and I understand that this is because the government prefers to have their hands free to do what it seems to it, and not to have a GNP – which is not a thing of the other world – approved by a large majority of Parliament that tells it that, please, it has to do these things already. I think that's what happened. And, surely, behind this at the end is the fact that there has to be resources for this kind of thing, right? And I believe that right now, and with the news that we are having, there are resources for this kind of thing, and above all, when many of us continue to be denied the debate on certain reforms, tax reforms also to finance this type of measure. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u81	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mrs Garrido from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u82	ma'am: Thank you, Mr. President. With your permission, I'll talk from the seat. Well, counselor, this time I ask you again for courage, ambition and, above all, leadership, leadership to make decisions and take action at a very complicated time for Basque families. In that sense, you know, we have not been in agreement with the family policies that you have put in place or, rather, because you have not put in place many of the commitments that you yourself have made. We are in a new legislature; I think it is time to see the scenario we have, of which I think you too are very conscious. And in that sense, and seeing that, obviously, with the roll now of the majority of the PNV and Socialist Party this compromise amendment is not going to come out, I think it deserves attention, even if it is not going to be approved. Faced with this amendment by all the opposition groups, this time united, once again – in the last legislature that agreement would have been decisive – I hope that you will make a little case, because in the end it means not leaving many families who may be having a bad time. It's reviewing an order, adapting it to current circumstances. And in that sense, that order was linked to the validity of the state of alarm. The state of alarm has been completed, but the situation of many families who are having a bad time, who are in a vulnerable situation and who are in an exceptional situation has not been completed. So let me also look at this agreement with a little attention. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u83	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs Sánchez from there. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u84	Yeah, from the seat. Well, I indicated in my first speech that, of course, we in our entire amendment referred to the importance we attach to this need for adaptation. But for this adaptation we have to evaluate, we have to explore what is most important or what points can be the most important when it comes to getting these aids out in the best way possible and where it has to be made more flexible. I have not said at any time that the strategies cannot be changed, Mrs Kortajarena. I, what I have said is that in order to achieve long-term objectives you cannot be constantly changing strategies in these areas, but they have to be policies that in the fundamental bulk have to be stable over time so that the effects you want to achieve with those strategies can be achieved in that long term. But that doesn't mean they can't be modified at some point. I just didn't say that, it's two completely different things. And experts in these areas, in the family field, fully agree with this approach. We have been clear, we have made an attempt to reach that agreement. We haven't made it; well, it will be again. Of course, that does not take away so that we do not continue to study and see what can be the best solution to deal with the situation facing families at this time, and therefore we will support our amendment as a whole. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u85	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians? Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Vice-Governor. I'll be short. Madame Kortja's: where was the difficulty of agreeing? Well, I should say that two points of agreement have prevented (or perhaps all three) from agreeing. And that's where I think, and from me, I think we should overcome certain inertia. And that serves, in some measure, to answer Mr. Hernanndez. The example of Manolitus serves many things, Madame Kortha's, for many things. If I were Manolito, and asked me what I understood in many things, I don't know how many years, I'd say the same thing. Mr Hernandez, you were talking about that, if you were to be partially assumed, then that would be a great step forward. Well, it seems to me to be a correct way of seeing it because I think that partially we do agree on many things, and, as I said earlier, perhaps we should change some inertias, some..., I don't know, forms of work, of relationship, in order to reach agreements in the future. It seems good to me that everyone has to defend their own, but, man, the plan "Take care of me", with all due respect, and I will not be the one to charge against another administration because I think we are not at a time like this, but, man, the plan "Take care of me", which I know, at surplus level implies that you stop working, but then they do not compensate, and there you have your problems of financial endowment, etc. But we're not going into that. I mean, it seems very good to me that everyone has to defend their own and it seems to me that it is very esteemable on their part. Mrs Garrido, a matter of order and form, because the last legislature we had, well, some incident, some similar moment. And it is that you, when you debate this type of debate, debate with me and not with the Counsellor. I already know that a servant does not reach the level of his lordship, but he discusses with me, not with the counselor. If you want to discuss it with the councilwoman, ask her. But you're talking about roller. Look, regardless of whether there are times when we're not going to make deals – and it's going to be like that – and other times when I hope that yes, regardless of that, it won't be by the practice of the roller. Because, in view of these things that are said about the roller, I would like to say something to you: it seems to me that the roller, beyond an arithmetic relationship, is an attitude, and I think, I don't think you can talk about the roller in this first case that we had at the beginning of the legislature. And I also believe that agreements – without making any kind of escapism towards self-responsibility – will largely depend on you, on all of you. Therefore, I encourage you, as we have started with a good tone, regardless of whether we have not reached the desired result, I encourage you to seek that result by keeping the tone in the next four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u87	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The debate's over and we'll vote for EH Collect and the middle-direction that Podemos-IU signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 70; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 33; the opponents, 41; white, 0; abstenations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u88	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudads. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u89	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And in the end, we will vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Euccanists. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 40; the opponents 34; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u90	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposition of the same as the parliamentary Podemos-IU team together, upon the formation of a policy on the Guardian Guardian system. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mrs. González, representing the Podemos-IU team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u91	Thank you, ma'am. Good evening, guests, congressmen. Hasteko, omenaldi txiki bat egin nahi diot Quino handiari. Philosophy bisualeko an asko utzi dizkigu, baita buruak eta bihotzak astinzen dituzten mezu asko ere. Gaur, hona ekartzen nauen kasuan bizitzari buruzko hausnarketa: "Life should be backwards: one should start dying, and so that trauma is overcome. Then you wake up in a residence improving day by day. Then they kick you out of the residence because you're already okay, and the first thing you do is collect your pension." Eta horrela jarrazzazen du, jaio arte. My mother says, who is also a great one who understands a little bit of care and agriculture, that "In September, who has wheat, who sows." And I believe that, although it is October 1st, the saying does not expire and that it is time to sow, but to sow care, because the care, like the sowing, has been given all life and every time it is his. We have been observing the composition of the earth, the social fabric, selecting seeds, selecting good practices in care, detecting weeds, all that the system has not allowed us to prosper. And right now, with this pandemic, we see that the climate is bad enough but, at the same time, good enough for us to sow what we want to collect in the future. In reviewing the House's report, I have noticed that care has been discussed in a number of areas in this plenary, in the form of motions, of GNP, of various types of initiatives, and that broad consensus has been reached. Excuse me. [[He took off his kiss.]] We must recognise the work that this entails in different parliamentary groups. Many of you who are here have demonstrated the theme of reaching consensus, and others who are no longer here, and we must thank them for their legacy. Legebiltzarreko egotisza honetan, lankideok, zaintzak bezalako gaiak lanzen zennituzten, horietaz arduratuta eta okupatuta. Horror gain, gizarte zibilk is mogimendo feministak ohartarazi gintuzten zaintzak krisian zeudela. Eta pandemiak agerian utzi du non dagoen beti sontzukizuna: emakumeengan. It was a lesson to all of us all that the feminist movement had organized through the confinement at the Guardian Table, and to them we owe the diagnosis so that we can work on actions that start from place to global. We must root our seed of care both in the lives of people and in our relationship with the earth, with the community and with the peoples we inhabit. Seedling, such as care, also needs favourable conditions for them to be just, healthy, co-responsible and socially equitable. As Yayo Herrero explains, we have to try to rethink politics from care, from the interdependence we keep with the rest of people and with the nature and land we inhabit. Let us work from the point of view of our interdependence and ecodependence. The pandemic has forced us to rethink the ways of organizing social life, and particularly the ways of organizing work, all the jobs, those that are paid and those that are not, bringing to the surface the seeds of inequality, the enormous inequalities that structure our societies in terms of class, gender, ethnicity and migratory status, among others. We cannot fail to mention the migrant women, who constitute the bulk of the submerged economy of care, the land paid for by inequality. And, of course, the parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we have very clearly that putting life and care at the centre is our priority this legislature and that it will be one of our fields of work, a land that must be pampered, aired, protected, for the fruits to be good. For life is what is cared for, as Amaia Pérez Orozco says, to sow care to cultivate and collect changes. It is essential to stop thinking and propose structural solutions to structural problems. It is essential to bring this debate to the surface, and that is my objective today from this rostrum, to propose the creation of a study paper with the firm purpose of ensuring that care is recognized and valued socially and politically and that it is placed at the centre of this Parliament's agenda. And that has to be done with a feminist look, because it is from feminism that it has been further analyzed and deepened in truly transformative proposals. Together, Podemos believes that vigilance, those which we continually give and receive during life, is founded on an inequality of structure. And thus we see women reduced to our rights and liberties, by the burden we receive in them. With this power, we are willing to do the duties of putting life in the most beautiful center. Thus, in obedience to the duties which the Basque Society and the feminists impose upon us, I require political parties to rethink them from this political point of view. As Beatriz Cubilledo says in an article yesterday, "The more complicated it is to sustain life, the more it is for women." Therefore, it is urgent to bet on home justice, understanding care as part of the economic system. Homework is essential for society to function. Achieving real co-responsibility in care tasks in a broad sense by dismantling the gender roles associated with care is fundamental. It is also essential to give more meaning to the concept of work. We must broaden the focus and include productive but also reproductive tasks, life-supporting tasks, and promote quality in all work, which translates into rights and decent conditions. It is also essential to address care formulas from the community as a common good, as an equal participation of all people, care that bets on the generation of networks that serve to transform our neighborhoods, our towns and cities and make them spaces of care. And it is essential from the public services to ensure quality care that accompanies people and provides them with decent treatment. Therefore, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we put this proposal no law on the table, urging on the one hand the creation of a presentation on a care system in Euskadi that has the participation of experts, social organizations and the feminist movement, and on the other hand, to continue to respond to the emergencies facing the care every day, working on the fulfillment of all the agreements reached in the last legislature, because we believe that the presentation is one of the most appropriate parliamentary tools to build a solid and consensual basis for a theme, a space where to listen carefully. It is a convenient place to listen to the opinion of the Eustanic, social, and unional agencies, in which the present state of the veins may arrive to the present state of care for the ground to be founded on which a new form of care will be raised. They're reorganizing the watches. We need space, experts, and social representatives to listen quietly to and examine their proposals. It is necessary to ensure the permanence of life and to advance towards real equality. And there's no more excuse to avoid that job. Because our welfare state has been built on immense unrecognized, unremunerated or poorly remunerated women's work that has been exposed to this crisis. Unfortunately, the service has been progressively dismantled and privatized of social services, and has placed the work of women performing these services at a very precarious level. For example, housewives, cleaners from public institutions or home help workers, who have been and are referents of labour struggles, demanding decent conditions for their work and in order to guarantee decent lives to the people who depend on them. He was reading an article these days entitled "Conquering Old Age." This article pointed out an issue that seems to me to be fundamental in addressing this debate, and it is that of the difficulties faced by women care workers and how the passing of years is a factor of precariousness for the lives of all women and people with non-binary identities. Not only grow old, but also take care. When a woman takes care of other people, old women or girls, she jeopardizes her future, because most public social security systems are calculated according to the years of capitalist work. With the precariousness of care, we are not only denying everyone the right to decent care, but we are also denying the future of thousands of women who provide it. Who takes care of those who take care of us? In addition, we have young people with difficulties in making up the family model they want; adults, who have problems reconciling work and life; and older and dependent people, who are not sure that they can enjoy proper care. I mean, it's an old model, it's out of date and it doesn't respond to social reality. Care has to do with the economy, the environment, eco-dependence, human rights, social justice, solidarity and, above all, equality and public policy. Emergencies such as those we are experiencing force us to rethink the system, and also force us, because it is a cry from civil society, to propose a new system and effective policies that protect all people and incorporate that feminist perspective and cross-sectorality into all of them. The presentation, which we propose, should serve to put all this on an institutional table and listen to the experts and to agree on a basis for moving towards a system of care of our own in Euskadi. We think it's essential to keep watch on the address book of this legislature. We should like to establish the principles of public care and the euphora system of the community; free, integrated, integrated, and universal. That all men should exercise the right of guard, and that the guards should be admitted as the subjective right of the citizens throughout their lives. Therefore, from Elkarrekin Podemos-IU we believe that it is urgent to make proposals for responsible policies that are innovative in the face of the crisis of care that we are experiencing. Political priority must be given to this issue. Finally, the rest of the political parties which are represented in this legislature require you to reflect on the crisis of care we must face. We invite you to join our proposal to make a team. Because we have a collective responsibility, because we have to respond to a new paradigm of veins, because a number of teams and the feminists of Euscata are asking us to do so for the sake of the entire euscal society. "Y les invitamos también porque creemos que dede la cooperación y desde el debae colectivo, desde el soiego, como tenemos que seguirjando." Creo y creemos que state shape de hacer pollica, status feminist shape, debe recteurse en habitual. As Mafalda says, "My heart would be in the heart and the brain in the breast, so we would think of love and love of wisdom." To vote against this proposal would be to close the extraordinary opportunity for us to move forward and prepare the land for sowing, to cast the seeds of a necessary change; because we are going to live on it and because as Administration we have to be diligent in guaranteeing the public right to care and equality. And I want to thank the gathering because he's understood that from the beginning and has agreed with our proposal. We cannot, indeed, continue with the concept of the policy of care which we have hitherto had, and above all, we cannot continue to maintain the weight of the guard over the shoulders of women, over their bodies and heads, without rest. A point in this regard: a report published by several universities (including the UPV/EHU) recently in May indicates that if psychological distress has increased in all groups considered in this study, it has significantly increased in women. The reasons are many, but the most notable is that women have been at the forefront of essential services and jobs to move forward. Much of this impact is due to the fact that society makes them responsible for care in a broad sense. There are too many women feeling guilty because they do not get to everything, because telework does not always have an improvement in conciliation or the right to rest, because it cannot care as it pleases or because it does not receive the support it needs for care. We bring this paper here for all of them, but also for all of us. Because economic recovery is as important as the social and emotional recovery of this pandemic. And because we want to stop feeling guilty, and because we have to feel that politics is useful, fruitful and transformative. It is time to sow care to collect changes, and to this we place you supporting the creation of that paper. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Passing over the teams that were running the corrections, representing the Basque Popular Group-Ciudados. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief bureau, congressmen, good morning again. Mrs. González, I'm glad to consider the work you've done here. Besides, we have also obtained great agreements on this subject, and in these agreements we gave the Government strict duties or labor. As has been said here, we have discussed this subject several times. And, well, those agreements have been huge. but it is true, we think that when we speak of the matter of care, at the same time, it would be convenient. The care is not isolated, it is connected with several other things: With dependence, with houses... The attention or care that's offered there. And in this respect there are other undertakings in particular about the houses, and above all about the browns which are given at the hotels. We've introduced a specific proposition between the Popula Party and Ciudadanos and the crisis of COVID-19 it's better to reflect on the model of the ego. That's why we think it would be convenient for you to see and examine all these things together, and not a part of them, and after all we can produce a great deal of poetry in the legislature, and I think it's proper to see things that are connected together. On the points we have reached in this Parliament on the subject of care, which, as I said, has been dealt with on numerous occasions, I thank Mrs González for having had the deference and attention, and for having spent some of her time reading them, and so, in addition, she has made herself clear in her speech, in which she has made reference to some of them. I believe that we must all be proud of the work that this Parliament and the various groups have done in this particular area, and of the various speakers; as has been said here, some are not, but I believe it is fair to acknowledge the work we have done in this area, and above all, that we have reached many important agreements. I am going to quote some of them, which are those that I have named in my amendment of the whole, because beyond the constitution of a presentation on care, which I say already that this issue, we believe we have to circumscribe it on much broader issues, not only of care, but the issue of residences, the issue of dependency, the issue of social health spaces, that is, here there are things that are linked, that cannot be separated, and obviously we believe that it is better to make an analysis of all of them. And, as I said, we also have some specific initiatives, EH Bildu has one residence initiative, this group has another on residences to analyze the situation and the model of residences, with the deficits that have been detected in the management of this entire pandemic. As I said, we cited some of the agreements, the content of some of them I want to bring here because, moreover, they are the object and content of the compromise amendment that we have finally reached with the groups that support the Government, and the two spokespersons, obviously, I also want to thank you for your generosity and your vision of following the path of agreement on this matter a little bit. As I said, there are several points; one of them is the recognition of the social value of care. We believe that progress had to be made here in this autonomous Community, bearing in mind that this is a clearly feminized sector, and there was a need, or rather there is still a need to make its work visible. Here we must certainly appeal to co-responsibility, to conciliation, to the facilitating role of this conciliation that companies must have. When we talk about care, we talk about care provided by professionals. Generally, such care is at home or in specific centres, such as residential centres, and care in the family environment, which also, well, generally, can be provided at first by the family itself, but there are also situations in which it is provided by professionals who address these homes. In this specific area of care in residential centres, this Parliament has also given its opinion on several occasions on the decree of residential centres. This decree came late, arrived late. We are also critical of the fact that this decree aggravates some of the issues referred to in some of the reports of the Basque Government, and in this regard we must highlight the agreement to revise Decree 126/2019 on residential centres for older people in our Autonomous Community. This is another point that we took up in our whole amendment, which has also, as in the previous one, been taken up in the compromise amendment. And in this particular point, it does refer to establishing the appropriate staff ratios and to distinguishing the different levels of dependence and the specificities of the psycho- and socio-health units. It also seems important to us that this revision of the decree should address the typology, nature and size of the different residential centers and that the psycho-geriatric unit, the socio-sanitary unit and the unit of coexistence be precisely regulated. Another of the points that we have also agreed and that have been included both in my amendment and in the compromise amendment is all that has to do with the social and health area and the social and health care plan, which ends this year. We believe that there is much to be done here, and above all, also seeing the shortcomings and problems that I believe we cannot deny that there has been in the management of this pandemic in the residences and that, unfortunately, the number of deaths has certainly been high and also the number of people who have been infected. On the other hand, we also reached an agreement for Emakunde to draw up a comprehensive plan of action to analyse the situation and to dignify the living conditions of the Basque women pensioners, who we also believe should collect it; a specific strategy to which, in addition, the adviser committed herself in response to an inquiry on this matter, a specific strategy for non-professional caregivers. It was therefore also reflected in our amendment and the compromise amendment. The continuous improvement of the Basque Social Services Service, as reflected in the 2008 Act. In this regard, collaboration with other institutions, third sector entities and the Basque Council for Social Services is essential. And in relation to dependent people, who, as I said, are also the group to which caregivers give their attention, a diagnostic report on the situation of these people (services, resources, benefits, typology) and what kind of dependency they have. Finally, we think that the production of a power at this moment may be of importance to the care of the watch, especially as we are at the beginning of the education of Podemos, which is probably the argument the Podemos has used at this moment, in order to include this precise proposition, but we think that since this subject is connected with other parts, we cannot disperse it. And in that line, we think it's good to ask you to thank you for the agreements and duties you've agreed to do here at this time. That's why we finally made a deal with PNV and the Social Party. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u94	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u95	Good noon, everyone. Chimamanda Aigei tells us that when he was little he always read the stories of the United Kingdom and of the United States of America, there were always white people who played in the snow and ate apples. But Chimamanda was black, she never saw any snow and ate mangos. He says that listening to other stories had given him a chance to invent his imagination, but at the same time he had never thought it possible to be the leading man of these stories until he had met African writers. And there were women with curly hair, who ate shawls, and who were never to speak of the weather, because they always had the sun. And why do I talk to you about the danger of one history? Well, here again, let us continue in memory of what we have been continually doing, bringing what we have done, bringing what we have done, just as if we were enjoying ourselves, as if we were going to be in the right direction. But I believe that from the end of the former legislation, something has been very serious in the lives of all who are here, and in the lives of all who are out of here, has led us into a state which we should never have imagined any day. And many women here, many of you, and many of you, would agree with your reading of feminist movements: We met at home, taking care of ourselves once more, and because those women who were outside the houses were the women who were the majority of them, the women who were doing essential work, and making faces in front of the pandemade, in the first row, in the fight, in the first row, in the fight, in the first row, we put the watch on the first line for the first time. And some thought: "Perhaps now it is the moment when we acknowledge the value of the veins when it is done, which will lead to the centre." And, of course, I think it's very important, and that's how we got it in the middle-class agreement we've made, so that we can finally ask those agreements we've made. For, Mrs Garridio, I'm surprised and I'd like to have this optimism, but many of the agreements we've brought in and we've already made should already be full. And there have been no change of government, the same people remain and have had the same opportunity to do what they were to do. But we've also introduced that, but I think we had here a chance to create another story, and we'd have the care of it in its openness and give him time to create a space for this analysis. But you have preferred to follow what we have hitherto done, without bringing any further news. And again, I repeat, we have put all of them into our repentance, the work of confession, but we believe that the moment is now the Exodus and COVID-19 has shown us that we are in need of a complete analysis around the system, and that we need new recipes. At the time of the confination there was a table composed of feminists of movement with social operators, unions, and political parties. We were all invited, and by chance we decided to move on with this or that amendment today, or the power, at the moment when we decided to sit down alone. I mean by chance... You know it is not so, that all this analysis, which we need in the custody of our conviction, cannot be done only between the four walls; we cannot do it with that imagination which we have here; for all these fine analyses and mad ideas, in all your heads, are not at all sufficient to arrive at the severe and worthy challenge we have before us. It's time for us to open the gates, and a power led us to do it. With feminist movements, with all these working people, with experts, researchers, those who have fought in front of the pandemist, we could meet with all of them. And what time is more suitable than the beginning of a legislature? We're four years old. For I have here the lesson of another form of learning, of my own, of others, of what I mean by the power of sexual immorality against children. It's terrible what can be done there, what we can do together without cameras and without microphones is terrible. And we didn't do the things we were supposed to accomplish at the end of the legislature, but the commitment there was so great that we put ourselves together again. For the moment is more convenient than the beginning of a legislature, quite calmly, outside the chryspaments, outside the video cameras and media, so that we can get to know each other and hear each other, and you have rejected this beautiful opportunity. For it is very good, and it is plain that at the present moment very urgent answers are required by certain circumstances, and therefore we enter a point; let not the origin of a power be removed from the discussion, propositions, and discussion of the present situation. But how shall we not take advantage of one of those few opportunities which this legislature gives us to join in such a way! I really think it's a pity he might have given up his worth and creation. Eta, well, oraindik nire hitzaldiaren bi minutu geratzen will say. Isabelenak ere ez baldin bazaituzte konbentzitu, jarraituko dugu sontzunean, bathe you had aukera daukagula benetan beasts modu batan lan Egypt. Eta egoera, zaintzen heurean..., zaintzaz ari garanean uste dut bear ari usten ari garanela denaz ari garanela, which we are talking about that whole, that great monster that we have to grab. And how are we not going to do it when we are proposing to do it all together, with all our imagination, with all our capabilities and inviting all that collective thinking that is currently underway in the country. I believe that there was a proposal that was more constructive and more paused and calm and exploitable than this; at a time like this, for it seems to me, truth, a pity, but we will continue to bring the issue of care. I don't know why you're doing this to my head when I'm saying it sounds like a shame, really. No, I'm not telling you that, Mrs. Sanchez, but I'm surprised. I think I am doing it very respectfully with all the people who, although you have decided not to do it, which I think, sincerely and personally, is very political, so it is a problem. It's a problem, it's a shame. And at the moment, as I said, we have another instance of pontiff, we have the opportunity of making our way to it. I think we'll get other proposals, and he's put himself on the table about the possibility that we've been able to agree with it. And I think that's what we're trying to do. Badago momentu honetan horren inguruan hausnarrean ari direen hainbat pertsonaren artean niri bear tasteuko zaidan hitz bat, éta gaurkoan horri egiteko urrats-saiakera bat edo jarri nahi genuine, that at once we move from a citizenship to a citizenship, and that is the challenge that we have these next four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u97	Indeed, in the previous legislature we discussed a lot about care and broad consensus was reached. In all these debates, all the parliamentary groups in this House agreed on the importance of care in the development of our society, and, moreover, that care continues to fall mostly on women, so it is important to continue to make progress in the co-responsibility of the couple, as well as to have an institutional support structure that can be used by the citizen in case of need. And at the end of the previous parliamentary term, on 6 February, we had the last debate in this Parliament on care, but during this period we have suffered the incidence and effects of COVID-19, which has generated a health and economic-social crisis, and has put this issue even more sharply on the table. Shock measures have been taken by the institutions at the state and autonomous level in Euskadi that have made it possible to resist using all resources for this, but we must continue to face the pandemic and we must continue to take action in the future. That is why in the government agreement between the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party we have shaped the objectives to follow, the key objective being the implementation and strengthening of the public health system, as well as the social and economic reconstruction of the country. We must take the necessary steps to get out of this much more cohesive crisis, with a well-being state strengthened and reducing inequalities. We must recognize the important effort that society has made during this crisis and that it continues to make. That is why it is now time to take the most pressing decisions that the next Government must address and accelerate reforms, based also on the work done before, in the previous legislature, but in line with the United Nations 2030 Agenda, and all this without leaving anyone behind. We must ensure with public policies that women do not have to give up their professional careers because of the limitations that result from having to deal with the care they need in their families, their children, the elderly and dependents. And, in addition, that a dependent person can choose whether he or she prefers to stay in his or her usual environment with informal support or prefers another option, and to this end, care support programmes must be strengthened, ensuring the quality of care. Actions are under way, and the strategy for non-professional caregivers with a socio-health approach will soon be presented, following a participatory process with older people and industry associations to give a transformative approach to care. They have been the ones who have wanted this strategy to focus on the non-professional field. With all the measures taken, it is preferable to strengthen non-professional care, without losing, on the other hand, attention to professional care, and the revision of Decree 126/2019 is currently being carried out, as already agreed in the Motion of 24 October 2018 to improve the ratios. We will support the compromise amendment signed between the Basque Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group and the People's-Citizens Group, which calls, among other things, for further work on the amendment of this Decree 126/2019, as well as a reminder of various agreed motions, such as that of October 2018, concerning the submission by Emakunde of a comprehensive plan of action to analyse the situation of the living conditions of Basque women pensioners. The Basque Government and other institutions are also urged to carry out campaigns aimed at recognizing the social value of care. Within this strategy of non-professional caregivers, we want to promote a new paradigm with which to respond to a new generation of caregivers, men and women willing to care, but with support, without compromising their life plan and reinforcing formal support, the services of breathing and support for caregivers and promoting the involvement of men in care, based on principles: it has to be integral, multidimensional, incorporating an innovative approach, includes the caregiver himself as a subject of law, the democratization of care, a gender perspective that serves to correct inequalities, be preventive and develop it from a community approach. And the transactional amendment also includes the reference to other agreements such as Motion 2/2020 of February 6, or Motion 4/2019 of March 7, 2019. At this time, the relevant committees have not been passed by the advisers to present to us the guidelines and lines of action of each of the different departments. That is why we do not agree with the need to carry out this care presentation right now. The aim is to achieve with its creation, which is to be able to make contributions by the feminist movement, older persons or associations in the sector, as well as employers and trade unions, is being carried out, is being carried out in the elaboration of the strategy, and, on the other hand, is being carried out and will be carried out in the reform of Decree 126/2019. They already have that opportunity, and they're going to keep having it these days. That is why we believe that it was important and we supported the compromise amendment between the Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group and the People's-Citizens Group, because it includes other commitments and also a compilation of the commitments that we agreed on in the previous parliamentary term and that it was important that they were all identified within it. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u98	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all. Well, I won't be very long, because Mrs. Sánchez has been pretty clear about our position, which is our point of view, and also Mrs Garrido, with the explanation that has been given about the power, hasn't she? We have said that the subject which we bring to our present day is no more than once a subject of care, and now, after COVID-19's pandemy, we have seen how social subjects, such as this pandemia has left us, have reappeared, not? They've always been there, but now they've got more out there. And he also showed us that we must concentrate on people who really need it. We shall all agree, moreover, that as we are an old society here several times, watchfulness is more and more important, and our work is to make an appropriate answer to it. This, we think, is the foundation of our medium, and the view and basis we have had from the beginning; the welfare of the individuals, of whom we form society. And there's one of the fundings in the Eukong, which I'd say is the most important thing to put people in the centre, and that's what he's doing. We believe that, as I have said, the Chinese do not require immediate answers to the reality which this pandemy has left, so that every family and person which we find round the watch require immediate answers, do they not? Lehen, aurreko puntuan, Hernández jaunak gure puntuari ereferentzia egin dio, eta esan du "Families can't wait", bainsa beste alde battik esan du "We don't want to run". Orduan, berari weretzuna zuzenean, bath, bene, taldeari weretzun nahi dizuet that taking imminent measures regarding care or any kind of questions does not mean running, means working to answer people who really need it. And we need imminent answers. That's why, and for that, as I said, our medium. I mean, you know, it's been a few months since you've been doing the surveillance strategy, considering all the agreements we're talking about in our middle-class town. We must also consider this, because in the last few months, in the neighbourhood of the guard, there have been so many decisions and agreements in this chamber, that we have penetrated in this medium different points of view from several parliamentary groups. And I think it's important, too, to emphasize it. Although we do not care where we come from, if the majority is an agreement, do we accept it? And, well, we've brought this half-way here with the intention of keeping watch on the table, and the care that's never been taken from the funkong table, and always, we think, you know what's been done. Besides, in our middle-class middle term, we also consider professional and non-profit care, and we ask that we obey all the agreements that have been made around it. Together, in this other proposition, as represented by the Podemos-IU, the figure of ponciness appears to us, which is the end. And, in truth, we agree with most of the party, together with EH Collectors, with the medium which he has made. That's true, but we've had this formula of power from the start, haven't we ever seen it at this moment? for we need actions, and not words. I think it's a good impression; I really think it's good, because it would serve to make a reflection about the care. but, as I have said, we believe it is not the moment, especially because we are obliged to have immediate answers and actions, which the Pandemia has left behind, and because we believe at this moment that the formula is not the proper formula. In the first half-direction, as we mention at the first point, he has been here several times, and we must work to confess the social value of the veins in order to appeal to a more equal society. The careworks must be visible, because we all agree with each other and so it has been discussed that it's a feminized field, and that's a reality. Until today, I think we all agree, don't we? In the other points, in the last few months, we're asking the government to advance the different agreements that have been taken about professional care and not professional care. Although I've already mentioned the person who's working on the management strategy, it's important for us to put all the agreements that have been made here in a single document and not lose this care matter over the table? But within the second point, we mention a very important aspect of ours, and it is the la strategy demois cuidados no professionales, as well as what Mrs. Sánchez has described. The caregiver strategy that the Basque Government is working on is based, among other issues, on the Nagussi Agenda, a model of public-social participation of older people, which is born out of the Basque Governance Strategy with Older Persons 2019-2022. In the ten different forums of this participatory model, 400 people have taken part. It is one of the pillars of the Basque Active Ageing Strategy and represents a set of opportunities through which people who age in Euskadi can be part of sharing the definition of problems that affect them and working with the Administration in the search for better solutions. That is to say, the Basque Government has heard the agents involved in the care. The objective of the Agenda Nagussi process is to ask and know what caregivers need: what they are missing, what proposals for improvement exist, so that they can co-design solutions and make decisions with the widest possible basis. The main conclusions of this collective reflection will serve to nourish the elaboration of the Basque Strategy for Non-Professional Caregivers, which the Basque Government undertook to present in 2020, and those in need of care, placing the emphasis on the gender perspective and on the co-responsibility of men and women in care as an issue that lies at the basis of equal rights. In addition, this strategy includes the recommendations of the European Commission regarding the care of these people. We are aware of the objectives of this strategy aimed at ensuring access to support and breathing services for caregivers, zeren eta guk uste dugu zaindu izaisa bezain garrantzitsua dela zaintzailea zaintzea ere bai, developing personalized care plans, improving care for families, family caregivers, preventing, detecting and addressing inappropriate situations, guretzako garrantzitsua den kontziliazioa ere bai, González andreak aipatu duena, eta gizarte-errekonozimendu formalago eta egokiago bat. We must advance the right to be cared for and cared for in a sustainable system that does not produce gender or social injustice; facilitate access to support resources to help improve and ensure the quality of vital projects, and we believe that the above-mentioned strategy focuses on this. The chief physician spoke of it, and I quite agree with him with an assertion which he made. He would say: "Tenemos que entender la importania del cuidado como manora que debe estar en la misma de la sociedad del futuro." I wanted to bring her here because I absolutely agree with her. Nevertheless, though, as I have already mentioned, we do not see the formula of poncie at this moment, we value your proposition, and I told you yesterday, but I am grateful to you for having tried to reconcile them to the bargain. But, well, I'm sure we'll find another one on the way. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Myst. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours. [[He talks from the seat.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u101	From the seat. I'll be very brief. The current health crisis has shown that there is still a lot of work to be done to have a good care system, both in Spain and in the Basque Country, so since Vox we will support all those measures that allow progress in this line. That is true, the amendments that have been tabled to the initial text of Podemos show that decisions have already been taken in the last legislature to improve the care system in Euskadi, and you will know why many have remained on wet paper or parked in the trunk of memories. Both caregivers and those in need of your care expect from you more than unfulfilled agreements. They need to enforce at least the same temony they have put in place to make a health cord in this House a reality against an absolutely democratic party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u102	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the answering shift together Podemos-IU. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u103	Actually, I don't know where to start. Yes, it's time. Yes, it's time for us to move this power forward. Right now is the right time to use this instrument. When I hear the representatives of the PNV, the Socialist Party and the PP after the presentation and defense of the compromise amendment, I can't help but think about what they're afraid of, can I? What are you afraid to support this paper? All the points contained in your amendment, we have offered to collect them ourselves; in fact, we have had a first draft because the two points that we had in our proposal are: we create the paper, but we are not going to leave or forget the agreements that were reached in the last legislature, the agreements resulting from the motions that were approved, and many joint ones were adopted. And they really are to be recognized, because they were agreements of virtually all political parties. These agreements have to be implemented. It is that there is no reason for us now, in an amendment, to have to mention motions and remind the Government of what it has to do because they were agreed. And here we're talking about something else, we're talking about a paper. Let's see. Moreover, we cannot deny that it is important to continue with agreements, but above all, the most important thing is to have fulfilled them. Because, in addition, the workers of the residences, the home help workers, were already coming, that is, to change the model of residence, that was all agreed, that is. And besides, when we talk about care, we talk about many more things, Mrs. Garrido. I mean, he mentioned the residences... We are talking about many more situations, many other aspects of life that require care and that are not only those that we see right now in the hospital, in the residence, the non-professional care... It's just that there's a lot of care that hasn't even been mentioned right now, today. We're talking about those who have to do with the land, with production, with the first sector, we're talking about primary care, we're talking about 0-3 year care... It doesn't come out of my mind, but we're talking about a lot of aspects that cover care. And we are also talking about the 60,000 people who were excluded before this pandemic from the perception, for example, of income guarantee income. Well, you, with your amendment, are calling for compliance with agreements that have already been pushed or that have been the result of previous work. And I like the willingness to try to reach agreements, but in this case I feel sorry, as Oihana said, I feel a little disappointed, because I believe that the presentation – and here, the people you have known for a long time – against child sexual abuse has been a success, it has been a success of formula. They can be heard. Eskerrik asko Etxebarrieta andreari Chimamanda Ngozi idazlea honora ekartzeagatik. Eta, I beat ere, aipatzeagatik ateak zabaldu behar dieguula. Hemengo buruak... That is, ezin dugu pentsatu "Guk Bakarrik"; kanpotik etorri behar will say idea berriak, innobazioa eta beast gauza batzuk. On more than one occasion they appeal to community work, to the auzolan Be brave. That's where I leave it. As Mafalda said, the wonderful character we always enjoy, that smart girl who looked at the world with child's eyes but with very deep judgments and also talks about inequalities – and, above all, about the inequalities we face women – think with her heart in her head, so that life, empathy and mutual care are what guides our decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Basque Popular Group-Ciudados. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours. From there. [[He talks from the seat.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u105	Mrs Gonzalez, I believe that there are issues such as the one you brought to this House today which, as you yourself have acknowledged and have also had the opportunity to read in the many speeches that we have dealt with this issue, it is not a matter of fear, it is a matter of prudence. I believe that an issue such as the issue of care cannot be settled. Of course, you were then talking about care in many areas, but in a society like this where we are, very old, where chronic diseases and multipathological diseases have a very important impact and require specific care for the elderly, I think we can talk about a lot of care, but I would mainly prefer that when we talk about care for people who really need care in the health, in the socio-health field, and for dependent people whose vulnerability situation has become more evident, if any, with this crisis. Therefore, I think it is a question of prudence. We cannot plot the issue of care and disconnect it from other issues that are going to be dealt with in this legislature and that have already been the subject of debate in the last legislature. Yes, it is true – you said so too – that they are repeated and reference is made to pronouncements and agreements of the previous legislature. Well, it is that some have not been fulfilled; in that sense, if the agreements have not been complied with or the Government is in it, then I think it is necessary to remember them, to translate them into a text, which is the objective pursued by this group, and that is what it has achieved. And, in that regard, I do want to thank the groups that support the Government, this time, for having had that vision of being able to move forward on issues that we discussed in the last legislature and that it is necessary to come to a conclusion in order to make further progress. And perhaps at another time your question is a matter of more opportunity, but at this time we believe that it is better to move forward on other issues that are related and we want to build the more general framework. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u106	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Unite the EH team as representative. Homesteader over there. [[He talks from the seat.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u107	Yes, with your permission. Well, I think I've tried to explain clearly that we didn't deny it, but I think that we've tried to do it with the middle course. And at the moment he needs the responses of the moment, and he's also extremely urgent. The point is, those we have collected in your middle-class agreement and ours are not at all Urgents. In 2019, we're talking about running some decisions made in 2018. Everybody, huh? I mean, I mean. But just in this case, we weren't talking about the Urgentes. Now, I think that one does not take away the other, and that, when we were asking for poncie, besides the situation of Urgence, or in answer, besides the development of the enterprises proposed in the long term, there is another desire to join and reflect. And, you see, I remember the last discussion we had in the legislature before, and it was in the neighbourhood that he spoke. And I ended by saying, seeing that it was something that was going to end, that I hoped you'd all be well cared for, or that we'd be able to do it this time. I hope so. But today, I'd like to finish this speech by thanking all those people who are watching us, from all the workers of the legislature, from the pandemonism and at the present moment from the state of COVID, to all those professionals who are giving their best. But especially to the family, especially to give us the opportunity of arguing here, to all those who take care of us today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mrs Sánchez from there. [[He talks from the seat.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u109	Thank you, President. Well, I believe that putting value on the work done and collecting the collection of those agreements that we have adopted is important. And, Mrs Gonzalez, fear of participation, none. Such participation is also taking place right now. So, fear of participation, none. You have proposed a possibility, make a presentation here, but that is not the only possibility of participation. Participation is taking place. They are intervening in the development of the strategy. As I said in my first intervention, they are intervening and will intervene in the reform of Decree 126 of 2019. So, fear of participation does not exist. They have channels of participation. Another thing is that we may or may not agree on the desirability of making such a presentation. But fear of participation, none. That is why we have seen it more appropriate to make that compilation of all these agreements, to include the need to carry out these information campaigns in order to make progress on this issue, and that is why we will support the compromise amendment signed between the Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group and the People-Citizens Group. But fear of participation does not exist, because participation is occurring.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u110	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Mrs. Ipiñazar, Eubertarians. It's your word, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u111	Can you hear me? Okay. Bakarrik Etxebarrieta eta González andreari gauza bat esateko: ez daukat bildurrik. Ez daukat bildurrik, age... And I also speak from the heart in the head, as you said, because precisely I – as there is someone else in this situation – precisely I am on both sides, I am on the side of the parliamentarians in which we are now and on the other hand I am on the side of the caretaker too, because I have my mistress But there's one thing I'm sure of, and I often think that when some initiation comes here, we often forget... And what I have is that I'm realistic and I know reality in the first person, in this case. Then I know what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Myst. Mrs Martínnez mustn't talk. So, since the discussion is over, we'll vote together for the middle-direction signed by the Podemos-IU and EH Collectors. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u113	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we're going to vote for the population of the Basque Popularo-Céanos and the Basque Socialists and the Middle Amendors signed by the Eucalists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table are 68; the votes are 72; the supporters are 46; the opponents are 20; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 6.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u114	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "As the popular group of Euscals-Ciudadans made a parlamentary group of people, with regard to the prolonged and spreading of the files in the employment campaign. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u115	Thank you very much. Lehendakari, counselor, counselor. Good afternoon. Good. I'm going to be telegraphed, absolutely brief. Last week we included this non-legislative proposal on the agenda of this plenary in relation to the ERTEs and the concern that existed. Yesterday was published the Royal Decree Law 30/2020, on social measures in defense of employment, in addition, in relation to what we tried to bring to this plenary, that concern, the ERTE, as a basic element of economic, social and labour performance at this time. I simply want to announce the withdrawal of the initiative that is being addressed at this time. There's an agreement, and that's what we'll have to see, how it develops. An agreement reached between the Government, employers, CEOE, CEPYME and the trade unions, which in some way also reflects some of the concerns that we raised in the proposal, as it cannot be otherwise. The agreements were reached this week; in some cases, in addition, in extremis. There has indeed been an agreement, and that concern and that concern that have been kept to the limit, until yesterday, which was published, on 30 September, was there. We've read the decree. Now we'll have to see how it's developing. It deals with many issues, addresses important elements. We will see how this extension and the future needs in relation to employment and the maintenance of business activity in the different sectors, which we will also see, will do that analysis. We also want to contrast and talk at this time and after this approval with the social and economic sectors of this country, to see how this is going to materialise. We also want to hear from the Employment and Labour Adviser on how all this is going to be boosted and what prospects she is going to have right now in this country, in the Basque Country. In this sense, we presented this concern in August, we have maintained it until today – yesterday the decree was published. It is now up to us to analyse, see and contrast it with economic and social actors. That is why I announce the withdrawal of the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u116	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Even if I retire, the parties have a turn. So, to start with Podemos-IU, Mr. Hernandez, do you want to talk about something? Would you like to take your word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u117	Once the initiative was withdrawn, well, perhaps it should not intervene, so as not to bore them and not to extend their day, but, well, I think this agreement was reached a couple of nights ago, I think the People's Party has had time to warn us of the groups that were withdrawing it, and, above all, I think that, once Mr Barrio has intervened, we must act on equal terms and intervene briefly in all the groups. And I did want to say three things, more or less briefly. Because we believe, Mr Barrio, that your group has brought this initiative to this Parliament, just as it has taken it to other autonomous chambers in other territories, and I also believe that to other institutions and municipalities, and I believe that they have done so over the past few weeks as part of their strategy of opposition and overthrowing the Spanish Government, and in particular the Minister of Labour, because they knew perfectly well that these measures were being negotiated, that they were being discussed at the table between employers and trade unions, in the famous social dialogue to which they allude, even their group alludes many times, and that groups like ours are often faced with the fact that when we bring in certain initiatives we are interfering in social dialogue. And you, during these weeks when you were talking about unions, employers and the Ministry of Labour, have done nothing other than, precisely, get involved and put sticks on the wheels, with the sole purpose of that harassment of the Ministry of Labour. Because you sometimes pretend to give other groups, and especially the left, lessons about social dialogue, when in this country everyone knows that the main party that passes social dialogue through the arch of triumph – forgive me the expression – is the People's Party. When it has governed, and in this type of matter, it has legislated without the need for social dialogue agreements, and in particular the latest labour reform is the great example of this policy and attitude. In any case, it seems to us to be a questionable strategy on your part, because you, of course, have had to withdraw the initiative today because, if not, the leader would be that the People's Party would bring to the Basque Parliament a request asking the Government of Spain to do what the Government of Spain has already done; therefore, I understand that you will withdraw it. And, simply, a reference, because among the amendments which had been tabled at his initiative, I believe that there were many points in common in almost all the groups, but there was a proposal, in particular, from the Vox Group, which I believe would have been accepted by no one and which seems to me to be an absolute indecency. What they claim and are also claiming, as a result of this initiative in other institutions, is that workers do not have to receive compensation for dismissal from companies, and that it is the State that takes charge of the compensations, when it also shows a deep lack of knowledge of the model we have and of the tools that already exist for when a company cannot actually pay compensations. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u118	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Myst. Mrs Martínnez mustn't speak. EHGG rep. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u119	Good morning, everyone. Although the other proposition of the law has been cancelled, the author has taken advantage of his opinion on this subject. And we too, at the EH Collection, want to take advantage of the opportunity to explain our reflection and our opinion about this matter. The crisis created by COVID-19 has had some serious consequences and will have them in office and enterprise. In the last few months unemployment has made it striking, but the most alarming of all is becoming. There are thousands of jobs, right now. It's a third of the unemployed. And there can be a bigger amount as crisis goes on. Thus, small and average companies, autonomists, small merchants, or corporations in the industrial area are faced with a very uncertain situation, together with thousands of workmen on the edge of the limit. Even if the fun rate of less than 10% brings us to the last European positions. In fact, before the virus arrived, we almost tripled the amount of unemployment that had preceded our previous crisis. And the employment policies, of course, haven't been able to turn it around until now. Precity has become structural to us. In this context, and in front of the gravity of the situation we live in, the public's most important concern is to protect jobs. And on the way to high employment, it has become a necessity of a step forward. In view of this scenario, the ERTEs have been a tool that has served, in part, to sustain employment in the first impact of COVID and to prevent, as in the previous crisis, the first step to be taken is dismissals, although it must also be said, with the economic effort of women workers, who have seen their wages reduced. In this non-law proposal it is the PP who calls for the extension and extension of the ERTE, even though, as we all know, it has already been agreed in Madrid. But in his initiative, he also tells us that this instrument was incorporated into our legislation in the latest labour reform. Nothing further from the truth. ERTE has been part of labour legislation, I dare say, almost since the beginning of the Workers' Statute. My father, in the industrial conversion of the 80s, was already at ERTE. In regulation it was then said. But perhaps the PP's lack of knowledge about ERW has to do with the fact that you are more of ERW, which is what really promotes your job reform. Because it is only necessary to remember issues that the PP incorporated into the labour reform: the reduction of redundancy payments, the promotion of EREs through reformulating the causes that companies can benefit from to justify redundancies. You have incorporated into the labour reform a concept of crisis that consists in being able to justify dismissals not only because of the company's current losses, but also because of the possibility of having them. They expanded the concept of crisis not only to the economic and/or productive difficulties of the company, but also to reduce profits or sales over a previous year. They eliminated the control of EREs by the employment councils of the autonomous governments, and in the absence of agreement between company and trade union representation, today the last word in an ERE has the company. Where appropriate, it is up to women workers to correct possible abuses in difficult and ex post facto judicial review. They centralized and discouraged social dialogue and collective bargaining, because they almost made it unnecessary for entrepreneurs to sit at a table, because their demands are already included in labour reform. They reduced the unemployment benefit from 60% to 50% of the base from the sixth and subsequent months. The same agreement to extend the ERTE that the PP was asking for has had to devote a part to remedying the cuts of the PP government, considering the continuation of the unemployment benefit by 70% over the first six months. I do not know whether to take this initiative from the PP parliamentary group as a self-amendment to its labour reform. That's why EH Collect will continue to work, as we get on a deal agreed on with the Madrid government, to abolish the form of work. If, as we have come or been saying, this crisis cannot again fall on the backs of those and those of always, and it is also accepted and said that from this crisis we must leave without leaving anyone behind, it is clear that we cannot manage this crisis with the same instruments with which the previous one was managed. And hence the importance for Euskal Herria Bildu to repeal labour reform. It's not enough for the ERTAY to stretch. It is essential that we should overcome and recover the leadership and the initiative by significant public policies, which have hitherto been given in the epileptics. The plan, which the government has just represented, beyond the propaganda, is not only to prevent the destruction of the work, but to prevent the present preparation, and to face the great challenges (the mass of the workers' retreat, the ecological transition, and the confession of the care-work) must show the provocative attitude. Y queremos decidir aquaí. Here we must decide, here and there, and get the tools we need for it, which are necessary for the modification of our productive model to be balanced and effective, far from the model of Spain, which brings in delay, debarration, and general poverty. We have not heard it today, but we have heard at other times that sovereignty, which to demand, to demand, to claim sovereignty for our Community has nothing to do with the interests of the people, but today in this Parliament, if we had the competence to compete in passive employment policies and in the ERTE, the debate on its extension, which economic sectors should be extended to, under what conditions for workers, and to what time limits, we would have done it here, in response to our socio-economic reality and listening to the demands of the Basque trade union and socio-economic agents. And in this case, moreover, including the position of the People's Party, in view of the positions of the parliamentary groups at today's sitting, we would come out with the decision taken, without waiting for others to decide by this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u121	Well, today, at this point, it is curious because we are witnessing a somewhat exceptional situation, because when a point is withdrawn in this House, it is withdrawn before starting to debate and it is already there (because circumstances have changed, because what is requested in the original initiative has already been fulfilled, etc.). But Mr. Barrio tells us today to take it back, but he brings us to the debate, completely... a little absurd. But taking advantage of the fact that we are here, in the debate, but that although there is debate then there is not going to be a vote because it has actually withdrawn, I will tell you a few things, Mr Carmelo. Because, obviously when this one started..., I was first surprised that you introduced it, but once presented it said "It will retire, it will retire, because it is logical". If you were seeing for many days that everything you asked for was already part of the agreement that has indeed been adopted! But I am also surprised that the other day, in the debate that we had, his group partner, Mr Gil Vegas, said that he was voting against this initiative because he argued that he considered that preventing or making it difficult for companies to regulate their workforce, to adjust it to the needs of the market, at the moment it was a mistake and involved condemning companies to bankruptcy; and, therefore, the sooner they fire, so perhaps better, because this kept them longer. And today, precisely, you are bringing this initiative, after what your groupmate said, and you were also asking in your proposal not only to be extended until 31 December but also until March. And, well, first you agree within the group, because, of course, what Mr Gil said the other day has nothing to do with what you have proposed here today, because the two positions are completely opposed. On the other hand, the People's Party has done nothing but put all the Chinese possible so that at European level the agreement could be made as difficult as possible to obtain the greatest number of resources precisely to allocate them to all these issues. And there you have put all the Chinese in the world, but here you come and say, "Well, let's expand everything, how about...". Well, there is also an absolute inconsistency between the policies that you do at state level and what you have, of course, raised here today. He would have to tell his colleagues at the state level to change their policies a little too in that regard and adapt to do the things they put forward here. It would be good, because, of course, it seems to me to be more coherent issues such as the one he has put forward, although it was already, of course, seen to come that it was not going to be necessary. And I agree with Mrs Garcia in what she just said, that, of course, you did not create the ERTE. The ERTEs have existed, and what happens is that there were earlier employment regulations, suspensions and terminations. And they changed, and now there's ERTE and ERE. But you also introduced in your 2012 reform a correction that right now, if you had not been corrected within the agreement that has just been adopted, would be very harmful to the workers in a very short time; because you introduced the reduction in the percentage of the regulatory base that will be perceived by the worker six months after the implementation of the ERTE. In the ERTE which are already beginning and which have already been applied for a long time, the workers could begin to undergo this change at 50% which you have put into your reform and which did not previously exist. And that injury is corrected in the agreement, because it is established that such a reduction will not occur in any case. Thus, workers have covered that 70% of the regulatory base which guarantees virtually all of their wages. We therefore believe that this third social agreement for the defence of employment adopted within the scope and the Social Dialogue Bureau between the Government of Spain, the employer and the trade unions Commissions and UGT has been very positive, and that it extends the ERTE until 31 January. But it expands them not only by introducing what existed now; it introduces many more possibilities, expands sectors and, therefore, introduces new developments that further improve the agreement that existed so far. It introduces tax exemptions, etc., in which I am not going to get involved because the amendment has been withdrawn, but of course it improves quite a bit. And I would also like to highlight the presentation that has just been presented by the Lehendakari, Vice-Lehendakari and Counsellor for Employment and Labour, Mrs Mendia, and the Counsellor for Economic Development, Sustainability and the Environment, Arantza Tapia, who presented this week the Economic Revitalization and Employment Programme in Euskadi. In addition, this programme introduces the possibility of continuing to apply the complements to ERTs. That is to say, taking into account the improvement that has taken place in the state agreement and bearing in mind that here we have guaranteed the complements, of course, the damage to the maintenance of the workers who have to remain included in the ERTE will be much less. Of course, I did not understand that the debate should continue, but since it has given me the opportunity to present to you what I think, I have, of course, already told you what I thought about the position that the Group of the European People's Party has put forward.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u122	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Basque patriots. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u123	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. I, out of respect for everyone, already advance you that I will not intervene briefly. I'm surprised, Mr. Barrio, I'm surprised. And I'm going to shave this maneuver. He submits us to a small rally, picks up the bartules and walks out the back door, without a vote, metaphorically speaking. He's coming out the back door. Very unsavory, I find very unsavory and I don't recognize you, I don't recognize you. Behind that point there is work, there is work of many people. And I understand it as a lack of respect for all of them. I don't recognize you. With this we are, of course, talking today about one of these needs which must be answered: employment. In particular, the maintenance of the latter, and in response to this, is a concrete one: the ERTE. I believe that we are all aware that, in the future, when we remember this situation that we are experiencing today, we will make reference to it as the age, the time of the pandemic, and I am also sure that in the workplace we will remember this time as the time of the ERTE. A similitude: this ERTE match has been made with freezing, freezing a company. Well, I've always had another image, one more image of sedation, I'd say, of pharmacological sedation. A very picture of the health field, too. I understand the company as an organism, a living reality in which there are sometimes tensions, injuries, pains, and it can be convenient to spread, relax, sedate. If we read carefully article 47 of the Workers' Statute, within section III, concerning the suspension of the contract, we will see the possibilities open to us with this figure. Returning to the simile, if I use a very traumatic freezing procedure, freezing or not freezing, there is a freezing point. On the contrary, with sedation I can slightly sedate a finger, a foot, an eye, until I apply a total anesthesia in the body, even reaching the induced coma, that is, it allows us to apply measures with more or less intensity and also allows us to apply them in a more or less focused way. That is what this legal figure is, in my opinion. It is therefore possible to reduce the pressure on that company by applying the most adjusted measure, the measure most proportionate to that pressure and keeping the body alive at all times. Vital constants are maintained even in that induced coma. I have always understood this figure like this, and I have had to use it on more than one occasion and have also suffered sedation in my flesh. But I've always understood it that way. And when I say always I mean since 1985, which is the first time I've read a manual on labour law. That is why, Mr Barrio, I am surprised that in the justification of your initiative you subscribe that ERTE is – and I quote – "an instrument incorporated into the legislation in the latest labour reform". Mrs. Garcia and Mrs. Sánchez have already commented... Let's see, that you change a coma in your writing doesn't mean you create the figure. And they're repeating that falsehood a lot. Twice, now the second shave. Twice in a day. This is unheard of to me, referring to you. In fact, and as evidence, Mr Barrio, until the current crisis, the peak moment of use of the figure, as Mrs Garcia has also commented, that peak moment is 1983, with 123,000 people in ERTE. I remember well that year, and a piece of shit I took to the bridge of Deusto, in front of the shipyards of Euskalduna. In 2013, after its labour reform in 2012, to which it refers in its justification, with 6.2 million unemployed people, 54,000 people in ERTE. Very good reform did not, very good reform did not. That's what it looks like to me. If they wanted to make a good reform, they would have attended to others, like us, who proposed other models, we did other approaches of legal figures (purchase date Our correction. I've signed a text and I'd like to take a little test of this text. And besides, I would like to do it in two parts: First, a photograph; and lastly, the planning of the future. The photo's a record, but it's just a photo. Because a photograph isn't enough. In employment, a concrete correctness is not enough. It's okay that there's a hit at a key moment, but we can't settle for that. All right, I recognize the right things, and I have no problem, and I have done so in my text. But having an employment policy is not the same as having been successful once or twice. Decree 8/2020 and, in particular, because of the impact on the preservation of employment of its chapter II, its flexibility measures, has its validity, no doubt, not as the instrument whose paternity you in your initiative demanded. I am sure that if the ERTEs had been used as little as in previous crises, the staffing adjustment would not have affected so many workers, but I am also sure that the job destruction would have been greater. It is important a photo, yes, but what we need are many good photos, which become long sequences that articulate an authentic employment policy, and it is often very difficult to get many sequences of good photos if you don't plan a strategy of how we're going to do it; you can ask any photographer. That is why, in my view, the important thing of our amendment is the following two points, the third and the fourth, which include the requirement of the State and also self-requirement, the requirement of the Basque Government to move forward with this employment policy. In this sense of demand I would like to pick up two ideas developed by our Member, Mr Barandiaran, at the control session in Congress on the 16th, in question to the Minister of Labour. First idea: we need certainty and security to recover the labour market. Second idea: we need to take advantage of the crisis to transform the model, model that we all know is expired. We need to bring the model closer to parameters of higher quality of employment, and this is an objective that must be shared. On that day 16, I think that day was a good time to demand and demand, and Mr. Barandiaran did so. Yesterday, also our spokesman in Congress, Mr Esteban, talked about these issues: you have to be effective, imaginative, you have to bet on what you can transform. On 23 September, Wednesday, we signed and recorded the text of the amendment I am defending today. In the third point, we advocated social dialogue as a way of continuing to agree on the most effective measures, and six days later we have these extensions of aid to those workers with lower wages who are receiving the figure of an ERTE. That is a clear example of the self-requirement of this Government. At the fourth point, we urged the government – you can see – to design a new strategy for employment and reactivation. Six days later, the day before yesterday, we had the Basque Government, with the lehendakari at the head, presenting the Programme for Economic Reactivation and Employment: €13.250 million. For all this, I will defend my text. ERTEs have been and are a good tool for saving jobs. They have allowed us to respond at a key moment to a situation of exceptionality. But this figure needs others; above all, it needs a good employment policy, such as that designed by the Basque Government. As I was telling you, this Tuesday, the Governing Council approved the Berpiztu programme for economic recovery and employment. This is the way: shock and realistic responses to combat the economic situation. If we have to learn from this crisis, it is the importance that dialogue and agreement are now more important than ever. Only by walking in the same direction can we better face the challenges we already face, and in particular the great economic challenge. We have a shared goal. Let's work and wake up. It's time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2020-10-01.u124	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. As there are no second rounds, and since we have exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon.
