ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u2	Congressman Jonah Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u3	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk recently about children, and we are currently celebrating the Rights Week of the Child. Last week, a new population projection told us that there will be fewer babies born in Finland and many laps will not have the desired child. As the father of such a small daughter, it feels good that, in fact, all parties have now taken children's affairs and family matters seriously. Those are the questions of the future. However, speech alone is not enough; we need concrete actions here from us who are in the Chamber. Minister for the Family, Finland needs a comprehensive strategy for children. The Government has started its own preparatory work on this issue this year. However, this work is not being done parliamentaryly. Would it not have been reasonable for such an important issue, which goes beyond the parliamentary term and which concerns the most important persons, namely children, to have been involved in parliamentary transport, to involve all parties in this joint work?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u4	Mr President! Mr Räsänen, the most important part of your speech to me was that the opposition social democrats are clearly also seeking a strategy in Finland that would make this country more child-friendly and more sustainable in many ways for families. It is the most important information that we enjoy a broad political consensus on the importance of this issue and also on its management, not so much with short-term electoral promises themselves, but with a broad commitment to a larger common goal. That strategy is not intended as a strategy for this government. This government, with its mandate, set in motion its preparation, and its basis is intended to benefit the next government. Our focus has been on the change in family services, which I am particularly happy to tell you more about. The strategy for children is something more. And if we want to strengthen that by, for example, a parliamentary meeting of all parties, we will be working together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u6	Mr President! In order for Finland to be truly the most child-friendly country in the world, it requires many reforms, such as the reform of family leave, progress towards free early childhood education, a full school day, a month of hobbies and also an extension of compulsory education. These are things that we in this Chamber can directly influence. In this climate, it is particularly important to change the climate prevailing in the labour market. It is precisely the reform of family leave that, unfortunately, you failed to do during this term of government. I would have asked the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, in yesterday's EK election, all parties, including you, promised to make considerable efforts to reform this family leave. You said 200 million, as I recall. I would have asked: Where did the money go this season when, for example, you had enough money for many inefficient blood transfusions? Should this not have been done already this season, while now we are so generously promising what we will be doing in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u7	Mr President! If the economy had been fine after you, we would have been able to do many other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u8	Mr President! I'm sorry about the Prime Minister's arrogance. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u9	Mr President! I agree, Mrs Marin, with the picture of the situation you have created, as to the reasons that perhaps lie in the background of the fact that our number of children is historically low when we look at babies born this year. Unfortunately, as a single answer, I do not think there is enough to resolve this or to reverse it. From attitudes to working life to family benefits and perhaps to global uncertainty, all this has to do with it. However, the reform of family leave, which this government was trying to do, was firmly based on the fact that, at the beginning of the government term, the choice of priorities was at the heart of family services, early education and, for example, the reform in the context of maternity and child protection services — yet, within the framework of the strategic government programme, we decided to try this, but, as described by the Prime Minister, the marginal conditions of the economy did not allow for a reform which could have been completely convinced that it would have been better for families with low incomes in particular. That is why all parties now preparing for the debate and the forthcoming elections should also remember, in the context of the negotiations with the government,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u10	Madam President! The decision-makers make decisions that take the child with the bath water. In Espoo, a budget has just been bludgeoned, which weakens the Espoo supplement, i.e. it will be removed from families with children aged between two and three years. This kind of surgery is disproportionate. [Hurry from the Right] Mr President! I ask you: in what way can we encourage families to actually have children? Among other things, it is there that social reform takes jobs, from women-dominated sectors, that has been told by experts. Do you agree that temporary work will increase, temporary work will increase and permanent employment will decrease? Yes, work is important, and it also encourages people to have children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u11	Mr President! This debate started with the preparation of the strategy for children, to which I warmly invite all parties, both the public debate and the thinking that starts from the point of view that everything in children's lives is not just about school and day care or social services, but also about the image of society in the wider sense of child-friendliness. As part of that work, cooperation with the Ministry of Education, when we are jointly responsible for this preparation, a strong starting point is evidence based on science and research, and one part of this is precisely what could be the individual causes behind the fall in birth rates. We already recognise that the insecurity and inflexibility of working life, for example, are one of these factors. Of course, they will inevitably encourage family leave reform in directions where these marginal conditions would be met if the objective is to increase the birth rate — but we all recognise that we all feel that the objectives are related to equality and working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u12	Mr President! The theme of the Children’s Rights Week is inclusion. Every child wants to be part of the group, be loved and liked. But the number of children who have no friends is growing — loneliness is growing in our society. On Tuesday, we discussed sports policy and the need to guarantee every child a hobby. That is one important question. But there are many others, in our structures and in the culture of sending us away and in the increasing poverty of families with children. What does the government do to reduce this loneliness? This loneliness is so dangerous to both health and mental development.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u13	Mr President! Thank you for an important topic today. Just as the representative said: the loneliness experienced by children is still regrettablely widespread. It's one form of bullying to be left alone. These are the children we should be able to help. Early childhood education has great potential for learning together in a group of friends skills and for not leaving anyone alone — it is one of the skills to learn among others. And an adult always has a responsibility that no one in the group will remain alone, that is, also with teacher training, as the staff’s knowledge of these situations can identify these situations, much can be done. Hobbies are a big and important thing, and you have to be able to take them out on a low threshold so that each child can participate and get at least one pleasant hobby in his or her own life. Among other things, this is the source of such materials. But in the end, much of the responsibility for raising the home, the work in kindergartens, the fight against bullying at school, the opportunities for hobbies — it is up to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u14	Madam President! Children are our treasure, and children have a future. That is what we all think, and I believe that everyone in this Chamber wants to take care of our children as well as possible and to ensure that every child has equal opportunities for a safe and good life. However, even today, when we spend a week of the rights of the child, millions of children suffer in the midst of wars and violence. In Finland, too, many children live in poverty and insecurity and therefore have to give up their hobbies as well as, at worst, adequate food. Poverty is also often passed on from one generation to the next and presents a high risk of exclusion. No child should suffer poverty or insecurity. So, Minister, I ask you: How can it be that in a rich Finland so many children live in poverty? What are you going to do in concrete terms to eradicate poverty and inequality? Are you going to reinstate the subjective day care right and cancel the child supplement index cuts?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u15	Mr President! The question is right at the heart of it. We are aware that economic deprivation affects the child’s life in many ways, and we have seen the development that has continued over many parliamentary years. In the same situation, there may be other problems with the financial disadvantage of family life. In response to individual questions, what we have done to combat poverty in families with children: Almost 7,000 families more than before were covered by free early childhood education. Furthermore, from the beginning of next year we will be strengthening the euro for the smallest amount of parental allowance by EUR 80 per month and, unlike the previous government, we will now raise it to the level of the basic unemployment allowance. As far as child supplements are concerned, I admit and recognize that the operation was a bad one. However, I would like to moderate and bring the scale to it: that cut was about 1% of the amount of child benefit per month or on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u16	Mr President! Minister Saarikko, you talk a lot about these marginal economic conditions. It is not only child replacement surgery that you have targeted on families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u17	Mr President! Of course, it is a painful thing during a difficult economic period to make decisions that can appear in the everyday life of a family of children in euros. However, I want to, and I think it is fair to describe these proportions now. As I mentioned earlier, the child benefit surgery was about 1% of all the money that all Finnish families receive as child supplements. Moreover, this government decided to increase the share of single parents in child benefit precisely because we recognise and know that the risk of poverty in one parent's families is a particular issue. And as far as the livelihood of families with children is concerned, it seems to me, Mr Lindtman, that you tend to forget that the most important act for Finnish families is the 115,000 new jobs, including very many mothers and fathers. And even more important for the future child policy is that we do not live beyond our resources to the detriment of yours and mine, ours and yours, all of our children's.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u18	Mr President! That is right, that is the most important thing, and that is why it is incomprehensible that it is the children of the unemployed who have restricted the right to day care. Messages come from all over Finland that in those situations many children in these families need — they benefit most from it — full-time early childhood education, and it is these mothers and fathers who should be given full access to work. Mr President! Minister Saarikko, you did not answer the question. Your economic conditions are selective. Whenever you should improve the position of families with children or even save them from cuts, then you have no money, but when people with good income ask for new tax benefits, then you will find money. Now I ask you: did you present money for the reform of family leave, and if so, how much? Minister Saarikko, please respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u19	Mr President! To refresh your memory, let us review how the reform of family leave started last autumn. There was a great social will to be put right. In the same context, almost all parties and parties presented their own models, how many months each parent would be at home or in what way we would limit existing interests. In the calculations, we ended up in very good cooperation within the government and also in interaction with the social partners, probably in about twenty different models of how things could be done, and neither would the model that we ultimately had on the table have been cost-neutral, as you describe, but the additional efforts needed for early education would have been significant. In the early part of the election period, we agreed on the priorities of this government. The answer to the question as to whether I asked: I did not say at that point, I simply said that the focus of this government on improving services is an important choice of values. Neither do you, Mr Lindtman, consider it a particularly foolish project to improve the Finnish population.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u20	Madam President! The government also has a great responsibility for what kind of atmosphere is created in the labour market. For us, the labour market has already changed in such a way that shredding has come to stay and higher education does not necessarily guarantee a permanent job. In this situation, we politicians should do everything in our power to provide security for the labour market, for example in the form of social security or unemployment security. However, the government has not been able to promote, for example, combined social security insurance for shredding workers. In addition, we must list these weakenings, the weakening of the protection against dismissal, the active model, the various measures that have increased people's fear that they can fall completely without unemployment security, even if they themselves do their best. For example, the active model has proven to have increased the need for income support, the number of families who have to rely on income support when unemployment benefit is cut. How do you respond to this criticism that you have made it worse for yourself?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u21	Mr President! Minister Lindström is responsible for the labour market as such, but I interpreted your question as particularly related to families as to how this has affected fertility. First of all, we are all in charge of the Finnish climate of discussion in this Chamber, particularly forcefully, every one of us. As far as the precariousness of the labour market is concerned, the transformation of work is true, and the government has done its best to respond to it, but I also understand that we have all felt together in this Chamber that a larger overall reform of social security is a better option in which we can clearly take account of all the different situations in life. We recognise that the overall uncertainty in working life is one of the key factors affecting family living and the desire and opportunity to have children. At the same time, however, it must be recognised that the most important element in reducing uncertainty is the rise in employment, because then there will be more jobs and less uncertainty.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u22	Mr President! Minister Saarikko has just called for a model of family leave reform, which also takes into account early childhood education. We have a model that contains all these different points. It is finished and ready, and it can be implemented now, for example. But to the real question. We know that early childhood education plays a central role, and today there is also much talk of quality and content. However, early childhood education is the only part of the study path where certain types of services are not available to support families and educators. For example, the services of curators and psychologists are lacking in early childhood education. What are you going to do about this big, fatal question?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u23	Mr President! I think there is a good consensus in this Chamber that Finland needs a reform of family leave, which will bring flexibility to the lives of families with children, strengthen equality between working life and parenthood, and also promote the participation of children in early childhood education, from which point of view this issue arose. With regard to early childhood education, very important things have been done during this period. Among other things, the new early childhood education law is in force, it increases the quality of day care centres in the long term, strengthens the level of training of professionals, and there is a free early childhood education experiment for five-year-olds, which is being expanded. We have reduced contributions in early childhood education, which has increased participation in early childhood education. And, in connection with this question of aid, experts are currently working on the next stage of the early childhood education law, as the aim is to strengthen these support structures also in early childhood education. Similarly, we have worked well with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to establish closer contacts
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u24	This last question from the Socialist Group in Parliament is addressed to the author of the question, Mrs Räsänen Joona.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u25	Mr President! As we have heard well again in this debate, there are many issues relating to the status of families. It is clear that we need legislative reforms that will lead to a better reform of family leave, and hopefully that will be achieved in the future. We also need reforms relating to early childhood education, education and so on. But then, on top of this legislation, we also need a change of attitude. The fact that Finland really is also a more child-friendly society in all our everyday lives and in the everyday lives of all our families is certainly not only a change of legislation that we can do. It would be a good thing that every party really does its part in this work, and that is why we are creating a more positive climate for this society. At the end of the debate, I would have asked the Minister for the Family: what do you think about how we could change this climate of society for the better?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u26	Mr President! I think one of the key things that families expect of us in very different life situations — with children of different ages and with children of different ages — is that society should be flexible, whether it is about working life or that services should come at the right time and it would not be too complicated to find them. And it is good to note that the everyday lives of Finnish families are influenced by a lot of things other than legislation or politicians' speeches. It is precisely for this reason that other social actors other than politicians were also widely invited to work and prepare the strategy for children. With reference to your question at the outset: not even the government parties have representatives in that steering group directly, but have social influences in all areas of life. I believe that with such speeches as you, Mr Räsänen, we will build a more child-friendly Finland in a country that is ageing in Europe with the best cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u27	Next question from the Finnish Parliament Group. Congressman Hakkarainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u28	Mr President! Finnish households are absolutely angry about electricity billing and especially about transfer prices. Matti Ronkainen, a multi-born Finn, wrote that he received a 3 month electricity bill, the total amount of which was EUR 95. Of this, nearly EUR 3 was the actual electricity bill, which is 3 per cent of energy, while the remaining 97 per cent were taxes and transmission fees. Almost every other family is wondering about huge transfer fees. They're incomprehensible. Last autumn, the True Finns presented a proposal to limit electricity transfer pricing, and this autumn too. Companies’ profits should be reduced by setting a lower percentage of profits. Matti Ronkainen, a multi-faceted person, asked: “What do politicians do to make the transfer price more reasonable? “ What do you say, Minister Lintilä?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u29	Madam President! People’s concerns about the development of transmission prices affect a very large number of Finns, and at the same time our electricity consumption and electricity use play an increasingly important role, the security of supply — the equipment that operates on electricity must function. When our country has been plagued by various storms on different sides and the blackouts have been long, we have had great concern about security of supply. And because of these concerns, relatively large obligations have been imposed on electricity distribution companies to invest to improve security of supply. However, we have also wanted to keep it to a reasonable level of transfer pricing and have set, for example last year, a cap on transfer prices. This is a constant balance between security of supply and the resulting costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u30	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u31	Mr President! The last government pranked you and sold the power company Caruna to make up for its bad housekeeping. It was a big mistake. I don't think you can cancel it, but the government can interfere with the Energy Agency's profit decisions. Land cabling is not the basis for excessive transfer fees. For example, Matti Ronkainen, who I mentioned, told me that he has a land cabling, but electricity comes into the ground cable through the air lines, and there is a lot of power outages. The Finns of Peru demand that housing costs be reduced. Reducing electricity transmission prices is one good way to do this. My question is: are you going to intervene in the pricing of the Energy Agency and reduce the profits of companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u32	Mr President! I'm sure it's a good idea to review that electrical bill structure. This was also highlighted in Mr Hakkarainen's question, but on average one third of the electricity bill is consumption, the second third is transfer and the third third is taxation. The Energy Agency will ensure that companies distributing electricity operate in accordance with the law and that such over-pricing would not occur during a four-year surveillance period. And in order to keep those annual increases reasonable, this annual increase ceiling was created. Instead of starting to address the potential demand for returns on very large investments, we probably do not have the legal means to do so. But that control must be rigorous so that we act in accordance with the law and the rules of the game now in place, and we must keep to that, while improving security of supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u33	Mr President! The Caruna trade took place last season — the Coalition Party, the Greens, the Left parties —
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u34	Mr President! All in all, there are 80 companies in Finland that supply us consumers with electricity to get it out of the socket. Of course, there is a lot of difference between individual companies — sometimes it seems to me that there is a great deal. I described society’s obligations to transfer companies to supply more weather-proof electricity to our needs. They have caused electricity transmission companies to invest nearly EUR 10 billion in the electricity grid over a period of more than ten years so that electricity will be undisturbed for us, and there will be about one third of this investment to improve security of supply. Of course, when investments are made, they are also expected to have a return, and unfortunately we consumers will continue to have to pay for the price of electricity transmission. But control must be right that excessive pricing is not done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u35	Madam President! Representative Elomaa said that almost half a million viewers are spoken here. It would therefore be especially important for us to stick to the truth. When Fortum was given permission to sell the power grids to Caruna, there was only one person who opposed it and one party: the Left Alliance. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u36	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to say that I do not approve of tax evasion, not in any form whatsoever. Our task is to constantly develop our system so that we can prevent tax evasion and aggressive tax planning, which is illegal. We can do this one step at a time. This balance sheet exemption, to which you refer, has been wisely introduced by the Minister of Finance, Mr Urpinen. In practice, it protects the operating conditions of 60 large Finnish companies within the framework of EU regulation. It is absolutely necessary for tens of thousands of Finnish workplaces that 60 large Finnish companies can use this. That is why there is a balance sheet exemption procedure. And now that changes are being made, on the basis of the consultation, the broad view is that this should continue. As far as public claims are concerned, unfortunately I cannot comment on the issues of an individual taxpayer,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u37	Next question, the Green Parliamentary Group, Emma Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u38	Mr President! There was a discussion here earlier on about children's rights. Yemen has been called the worst place in the world to be a child. Over 5 million Yemeni children are at risk of famine. We need an immediate cease-fire and peace. It is good if the government has finally come to the conclusion that there are no conditions for new arms export permits to Saudi Arabia anymore. This absurd war is entirely man - made, and only humans can stop it. Minister of Foreign Affairs Soini, Finland is known to have a lot of expertise in mediation. In what way does Finland intend to contribute to the peace process in Yemen, and could Finland take the initiative, for example, in an arms embargo across Europe?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u39	Madam President! This is a very topical and important issue. Indeed, the government has today dealt with arms exports and, in the current situation, there is no need for new arms export permits to the Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. In other words, this decision is clear and, of course, our judgment is always based on international case-by-case judgement and EU arms export criteria. This issue of Yemen is extremely important. That's a little bit of optimism right now. Last week, exactly a week ago, I talked about this with the U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, and he said then something was happening. Well, on Monday we learned that positive developments in the framework of the ceasefire are taking place. The EU Foreign Ministers also held a debate on this last Monday in Brussels, and Finland will do its utmost and give all possible support to the peace process and the end of killing in Yemen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u40	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u41	Mr President! The decision to end arms exports is absolutely correct, and every tiny glimmer of light from Yemen is absolutely necessary. The country is experiencing the worst humanitarian crisis in the world: 22 million people are desperately in need of humanitarian aid. Nearly 2 million infants suffer from acute malnutrition. Eighty-five thousand children under the age of five are feared to have died of hunger and disease as a result of the conflict. Save According to the Children’s Association, tens of children die of starvation for every child who dies of bombs and bullets. This could be completely prevented, but further assistance to Yemen is urgently needed. I would ask the Minister of Estonia: is Finland now going to add its own humanitarian aid to Yemen?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u42	Madam President! I will answer this question about peace and that situation. It is now important that a ceasefire has been reached and that everything is done to ensure that the ceasefire is held, because only a cease-fire guarantees that we can get the aid through, that is to say to ensure that the aid is delivered. That is why it is extremely important that the negotiating table is reached, and Sweden has promised to host these negotiations. All in all, it is now the most important thing that all parties come to Sweden and start these negotiations. I talked about this with Margot Wallström, the Swedish Foreign Minister, and she said that they had every capacity to do so. And finally, the UN Security Council and its five permanent Member States have moved on this issue. These are good things. Help is urgently needed, but the situation is extremely fragile there. And unfortunately there are those who benefit from the war and cynically wage this war because of their own political ambitions. But now it is important for the international community to react, and Finland must be involved, as it has been.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u43	Madam President! Mr Kari, you described this disastrous situation in just as terrible a way as it has been in front of us through television screens. Minister Soini mentioned the next steps to be taken in order to achieve peace there. Finland has been in this situation all along. This year we have given EUR 3 million, which have been delivered through UNHCR, the World Food Organisation and the International Organisation of the Red Cross. That is why they have been selected as our partners, that they are also able to prove that the aid is being delivered. You asked me about the future. Those decisions will then always be taken on a case-by-case basis, but I would dare to say here that they will be positive.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u44	There is also a question on this issue from the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group. Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u45	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the parties to the Saudi Alliance that are fighting to stop arms exports in Yemen, and I hope that this will also apply to arms exports under existing permits. Mr President! The highest price for the Yemeni crisis is paid by women and children. Tens of thousands of children are dying of hunger, and in addition to famine, violence against women and girls has increased exponentially. The number of child marriages has increased by 66% and there are 1.1 million seriously malnourished pregnant women in Yemen who are also not receiving health services. The UN Population Fund (UNFPA) has announced at the beginning of November that it needs immediate additional funding for the situation in Yemen to address the financing gap left by the United States and to respond to the deepening crisis. I would like to ask now: will the government increase aid to Yemen and fill the acute funding gap for UNFPA and many other aid organisations?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u46	Madam President! As I have already said, the system works in such a way that these organisations usually ask for money specifically for those projects and, as you are well aware, Finland is one of the largest contributors to UNFPA. We have a very close relationship. We know that the need is enormous, but we do not know the real amounts. What can be said about the need for this year is that almost 80% of that need has been satisfied when talking about money, but it has been a problem in recent times that not all these subsidies have been delivered, because there have been military forces in the UN warehouses.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u47	Madam President! It is very good that this issue is now on the table and we have a great deal of consensus in this Chamber that the conflict must be brought to an end. This is a very complex conflict in the sense that cynically Yemeni — Yemeni children, women — is being used as victims of this kind of Proxy war by Iran, by Saudi Arabia, by the Arab Emirates. Thank God, and through political decision-making and through international pressure, the great powers have been made to react. If there were to be a unanimous UN Security Council resolution on this again, it would take the matter forward, because UN unanimous resolutions in the Security Council are binding on all Member States, unlike if general resolutions are adopted without the protection of the Security Council. And in all its horror this murder of Khashog has created such a window of time,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u48	Mr President! It is very good that the terrible situation in Yemen is being discussed here in the Chamber. Indeed, humanitarian aid is linked to these problems of delivery, to surrounded ports and to the fact that there is a civilian population under bombing who has not been able to provide assistance, children and women. Even journalists have had a very dangerous situation in Yemen, which is why we do not know everything that has happened there. Second thing, arms exports. It is very good that the government has now come to an end and that both Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates will be on the stage of war. The route of weapons from Finland must be stopped. You can't push more guns into that war. But my question is to Minister Soin about this good news that in Stockholm, Sweden, negotiations could begin under the leadership of UN Secretary-General's Special Representative, Martin Griffiths. The negotiations often require offers for peace-keeping, civilian crisis management and so on. Has the EU or the Nordic countries discussed what Finland could do?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u49	Madam President! Finland has promised all its possible assistance if we are asked to do so. We know, and I know very personally, that in this country we have qualified mediation staff, such as, for example, a Member of Parliament who has been my special representative. Haavisto or Urpilainen, currently my special representative. Finland is ready, of course, to be of every assistance and involvement in the event of an invitation. The most important thing, however, is that we have also brought this issue together at EU level, and Sweden, which is our good partner, is also fascistising this meeting. It also guarantees us good access to information, because we have good relations and exchanges of information with Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u50	Madam President! It is great that some kind of light can be seen at the end of the tunnel and, if possible, in Yemen the peace process could indeed begin. Humanitarian aid, as has been said here, is certainly needed there, and what is absolutely essential is the port of Hodeida. That could not have worked now, that is to say, aid transport has not arrived because there has been a constant struggle around the port. Is it possible, then, that this port of Hodeida will be made available for what it is intended for, and that the aid transport already in place will be delivered in order to alleviate the suffering of an enormous number of people?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u51	Madam President! That is precisely why it is so important today that this ceasefire should last and that all the parties involved should commit themselves to it, because it is precisely this port of Hodeida to which Mr Paloniemi refers that is, in a way, the gateway through which help can be received. Unfortunately, there are quite a number of groups in this area, which are then financed by the various countries, and it is therefore essential that the well-functioning Special Representative, Martin Griffiths, should be able to get all the parties involved to come and commit themselves to this, because if this does not happen, then the aid transports that come will not be completely safe. That is why this cease-fire first and then everyone's commitment and everyone's participation in the peace process — and especially for women, because if women are not involved in these peace processes, studies show that these peaces are unlikely to be established, and their endurance is less if women are not involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u52	Mr President! This conflict in Yemen that has been going on for years is indeed such that its horrors go beyond our comprehension. It is very valuable that we now have it a little more strongly on the international agenda. I would like to thank both the Government's decision on arms exports and Minister Soini for his activity in the direction of both the United States and the EU. It's very valuable. It is true that the immediate ceasefire and humanitarian aid are the solutions that we need now and here, so that this terrible situation, for example for children, can at least improve slightly, but it is also true that lasting peace must be built. Here in Parliament, we have set up a Yemen Group, mainly to get information from such actors as Save the Children, Unicef, CMI, so that we can assess how Finland can continue to be as helpful and useful as possible to the world, and to get a picture of the situation, for example, of these forthcoming negotiations in Sweden. I would like to ask the Minister for Development and the Minister for Foreign Affairs: would it be possible for us to actively prepare a proposal on two points, humanitarian aid and crisis management and crisis negotiations, already in view of this possible forthcoming meeting in Sweden?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u53	Madam President! First of all, I would like to start by getting started with the agreement, identifying those needs, and then we would offer our expertise where we have it. If we now say that we are going to start building education or a school system or a maternity clinic, whatever we know there is a need... I think it is more correct to look first at the situation in that country, and then we will be working together through these various international organisations, because together with them we will be able to achieve the best impact.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u54	Mr President! Indeed, it has just come to the attention of the government that arms exports to Saudi Arabia and the Arab Emirates, which are fighting in Yemen, are being stopped, and that is quite right. Thank you for being able to quickly look at this government line. The last few weeks ago, the Minister of Defence saw no reason for the arms embargo, but it has now come. Very good. But the situation in Yemen is so terrible that the export of spare parts and exports to Yemen under old arms export permits should also be stopped immediately. Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister: is the decision today to suspend arms export licences to parties that are fighting in Yemen also regarding spare parts exports and exports of military goods according to old permits?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u55	Madam President! First, if I may answer Mr. Torst again. I attach great importance to this kind of NGO work and monitoring and also to the fact that you wrote about it in Helsingin Sanomat. All this NGO work to raise awareness and create pressure is very good. Today's Government decision dealt with new permits, they are not subject to them. At this stage, the government has not taken any decision on the authorisations in force, but we are monitoring the situation, but this decision remains in force. We must also see that we have certain contractual fines, many other things like this, and then decisions can be taken separately. In my view, these previous authorisations are at least the ones decided by the previous two governments, so that, unfortunately, almost all the parliamentary parties have been in the process of granting them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u56	Next question: Swedish Parliament Group, representative Blomqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u57	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Hangö — Hyvä-banan är den enda banan för godstrafik i Södra Finland som inte ännu elektrifierats. Import-och exporthamnen Hangö växer stadigt och skulle behöva en electrification. Det skulle också behövas för att nå klimamålen. Vi behöver milöväliga jänvägstransporter framom landsvägstransporter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u58	Madam President! With regard to transport, infrastructure and bus projects, it is extremely important that we are able to develop more long-term planning and better predictability. This is why Parliament has adopted a law on road and transport systems in the summer, and now we have a parliamentary working group which is currently considering how to start the 12-year transport system plan and thereby create long-term predictability for future transport projects. During this period, the transport projects will be the ones that are known, and the transport projects for the coming periods will be defined through this 12-year transport system plan, to which Parliament will then take a position with the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u59	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u60	Mr President! We have a very comprehensive road network of tens of thousands of kilometres in Finland. Unfortunately, as we all know, over the last few years, perhaps even decades, it has been seriously deteriorating in many places in Finland. I'm sure everyone on the road has some experience with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u61	Madam President! Last winter was a real challenge for us in terms of winter maintenance, and we have learned a lot from that and we have taken a number of measures. First of all, we have gone through the winter maintenance contract models, which systematically go from one region to another to the next, always where it is possible to renew the construction models. Secondly, with regard to winter maintenance, we have created a classification of winter care to which we have also allocated more funds for next winter. These increases in winter maintenance classes have been made throughout the country and are detailed on the website of the Finnish Transport Agency. Thirdly, we have agreed to increase controls on these winter maintenance activities, and the control system has also been agreed as part of road legislation. And then, fourthly, the regulation you have just mentioned on the condition and maintenance of the corridors itself will ensure that we have certain response times, especially then on the main routes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u62	Mr President! I am very pleased that we are talking about Hyvinkää, my home town, I listened very carefully. I myself have asked Minister Berner in personal discussions when this electrification of the Hanko- Hyvinkää track will come. That's still not really the answer. It talked about this 12 years of planning, so I would very much like to see something more concrete. There is a great deal of planning money on the move now, but municipalities are waiting for concrete, because goods are moving there and our business is dependent on how the goods move, including between Hyvinkää and Hanko. In fact, I would have asked now: what practicality is really to be expected? At the same time, I would have asked about the Hanko- Hyvinkää-Mäntsälä road: Passage lanes have been waiting for years, and truck traffic is actually increasing there. Has the government even spoken about this Hanko-hyvinkää-Mäntsälä road? People often ask me about it, and now the viewers get the answer themselves, has there even been talk about it and is there money coming in?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u63	Madam President! Finland currently has a repair debt of nearly EUR 2 billion in both our network and the road network. In addition, we have an investment debt worth several billions. There have been plans for large amounts and projects, but it has also been clear that our current ability to finance all these projects, both in terms of repair and investment debt, has been such that it has not been possible at the moment. That is why we have made a significant effort to promote commitment and new financing models, both in terms of debt repair and in terms of development. We have also agreed together that development-related projects will be agreed together through parliamentary rules, so that each party will participate in these priorities and Parliament will also accept for its part:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u64	Next question: the Christian Democratic Parliament Group, Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u65	Madam President! In two weeks, we'll celebrate our independence again. At the same time, we also celebrate those veterans who have acquired independence for us. Nevertheless, we can read again in the paper that the funds for our veterans have run out. They're waiting for an extra $19 million to get the necessary care for themselves. These appropriations have been sub-budgeted this year and budgeted under last year, when we celebrated our 100-year independence. I think this is wrong and unreasonable for them. In fact, Minister Orpo, I would like to ask you as a guardian of the chest: could you now promise our veterans that in 2019 we would not underbudget the money they need, so that they do not have to pay for their own treatment every year when they expect the treatment they deserve?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u66	This question falls under the responsibility of Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u67	Mr President! In Finnish Veterans' affairs, a fine practice has become the understanding of all parties and the way in which these issues have been dealt with. One part of this was a solemn decision taken in Finland 100 by which the government decided to allocate significantly more funds to municipalities through the fact that the Treasury, when invoices were sent from municipalities, would offset as much as possible of the needs of veterans related to their home services. It was a joy to note that, with that solemn decision, the municipalities began to focus these services on veterans and then asked the Treasury for money in return for them. But since justice has not been legal but has been committed to the budget, the government, in cooperation with all the parliamentary parties, decided that next year this right will be legal for every veteran still living among us, just as it has hitherto been for the disabled. With regard to funding for this year, I understand that Parliament will be voting on funding just tomorrow to ensure that all home services for veterans can be guaranteed for the rest of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u68	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u69	Madam President! I present to Parliament the Government's proposal to supplement the draft budget for next year. If we first look at these big figures on debt: The debt for the year 18, or the current year, was then budgeted to EUR 3.1 billion, and now, however, we have allocated an exceptional reduction, i.e. the State's export credit payments in advance of EUR 1.4 billion, so that it will reduce the need for this year's debt, but we have also checked the need for half a billion in line with the forecast. So this year's forecast demand for debt is EUR 1.2 billion, while next year's borrowing now after this supplementary proposal is 1.6. Why did I repeat this? That is why we are in a strong economic growth, a strong growth in tax revenues, still in strict fiscal discipline, which now leads to further budgetary consolidation. In other words, there are no signs of a slowdown in debt as such, even though it may seem to be sudden. Mr President! There are a lot of important things in this supplement. Perhaps the first thing I could mention is that we wanted to keep a relatively tight line, only to do what is necessary, and, exceptionally, we added EUR 20 million, in addition to the normal EUR 40 million for the parliamentary budget, which is a total of EUR 60 million, so that Parliament and the Committee on Finance and the committees can carefully deal with any pain points, with a slightly greater margin of manoeuvre. All of this is, of course, done within the framework of the framework. I would like to raise some specific points: A total of EUR 2.1 million will be added to important money laundering and money laundering activities, to the police, the Central Criminal Police and the Ministry of the Interior. The police will have EUR 2.2 million in funding for the establishment of a reserve police system and EUR 1.6 million for the departmental projects of the protection police. A major role in this supplementary proposal is the additions to the agricultural crisis package. We decided on support measures for agriculture in the budget line and, as agreed in the supplementary proposal, we will add EUR 22.5 million to safeguard agricultural conditions, and an increase of EUR 4 million in national support for agriculture and horticulture will be proposed. A total of EUR 1.8 million will be allocated to the control of African swine fever. This, too, is an absolutely necessary measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u72	Apparently, there's a need for a debut. Let's open the debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u73	Madam President! It is a good thing that the Minister also had good things to say about this debt and the need for debt. This year, when we left, the need for debt was over 3 billion, and now it has been printed on that 1.2 billion. I welcome the fact that this proposal strengthens our own domestic food production. As a former Minister for Agriculture and Forestry and Minister for Food, this has been an important matter for Minister Orpo, and thank the whole government for the fact that these efforts are now coming. Education and research are also of paramount importance. Economic growth will show a slight decline in the next year, and we must ensure that we get more of the jobs that are still out of work, and that is where this continuing education and retraining will play a key role.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u74	I would ask those representatives who wish to participate in the debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u75	Madam President! However, in the large picture, after the submission of the budget itself, which is before Parliament, there is no significant change in this supplement. It is further stated that, thanks to consumer confidence, sustainable economic growth and improved employment, public services can continue to be secured, and that is the most important thing that will then ensure consumer confidence even in a longer run. It is wise for the government to acknowledge that the time for rapid economic growth may be behind us, and it is therefore appropriate to be prepared for changes in the world, and Finland too should be vigilant. On behalf of the Committee on Finance, I would like to thank the government for making it possible for this time to be more generous, and I am sure that we will find good solutions to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u76	Mr President! Mr Kalli here proved that, contrary to what the Minister of Finance has said, it is obviously time for a policy of division. In reality, it is time for reform policy and it is time for investment policy. To put it bluntly: if the 2019 budget did not adequately meet the challenges of the 2020s, then, of course, the supplementary budget could have brought out the reforms that will be required of us in the next decade. But I would now draw attention to the sustainability gap that this government, despite promises, could not bridge. However, it remained 3 percentage points of GDP, EUR 7 billion. Finland was not going to be all right. Finnish listed companies were able to make their profit, as the record dividend year proves. It's a good thing in itself, but it's a completely different thing. The five reforms proposed by the SDP for the 2020s are intended to ensure employment and growth at a more bumpy time. As the Minister of Finance himself said, it is not to be expected
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u77	Mr President! On Tuesday, the employment reports of Statistics Finland and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy were published: more than 115,000 employed under this government and 105,000 fewer unemployed persons. This is very important. I have to wonder what government action should be like in order for a left-wing opposition to be satisfied if this is not good enough. This has been the most important issue for the whole of this three years. In addition, in two years the number of long-term unemployed has decreased by more than 50,000 and, the greatest, youth unemployment has decreased by more than 5 percentage points. In this supplementary budget, the blue spirit is well suited to the need to invest in public security: police, protection police, border authorities. You might want to put some more in there. And it is surprising that Sweden, too, for two months now — and again failed to form a government — has been trying to take the government away. Finland has a functioning government that has managed to get the economy in order. Let us see again, as the citizen decides, what is the situation after the elections, but I really hope that we will not find ourselves in that situation, perhaps with the help of the left.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u78	Mr President! The Prime Minister did penances there and said that if we had known at the beginning of the parliamentary term how good the economic situation is at the moment, some of the most painful cuts might have had to be reconsidered. One way would have been to remove, for example, the index cuts related to national pensions and related benefits that will continue next year. This would have been a good opportunity in this supplementary, but it was not. But I would also like to appreciate that there are positive points here, and I would like to mention one: The parliamentary transport task force called for the promotion of walking and cycling — when it comes to climate emissions from transport. It was not included in the actual draft budget, but it is included in the amending budget for this year and then in this supplementary budget. I very much appreciate that, and we really need more measures of this kind if we are to combat climate change, both in transport, construction and agriculture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u79	Madam President! It is worth remembering that this parliamentary term began when the situation began. The general government financial position had weakened by EUR 38 billion over the previous four years. That's where we started. I have heard statements from various speakers that companies are profiting, and this seems even to some to be an abomination. That is the only way in which we can build this country to make profits.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u80	Mr President! It is not the first time I have had to ask Mr Hosko to remove the blue sticker from his ear. I specifically said that the fact that there are more dividends to be distributed this time compared to previous years is a good thing. You can check this — if you are able to read the parliamentary minutes — in the Minutes. But that is different from the fact that Finland is in good shape. And, unfortunately, this government has not been able to adjust the state economy as much as its predecessor, who was in a much more difficult, even catastrophic, world economy, despite the historical cuts it has made to the poor and the sick, students and pensioners. That is why we are in a situation where, contrary to what the government promised, this wind has not helped to bridge the sustainability gap. It will remain a bad legacy of between EUR 6 and 7 billion for the next government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u81	Mr President! With regard to the first part of Mr Haraka's speech, I fully agree, but I disagree that nothing has been done or that the sustainability gap has not been bridged. However, the most important thing is to increase employment, and the government has managed, through its own efforts and, of course, with the market situation, to increase the employment rate very much. Of course, there's still a lot of work to do. The employment rate should be closer to 80% so that we can continue to be able to cope in the future. However, I would particularly like to thank you for a few things in this supplementary draft budget: The first is to bring alternative financing models, SIB, or social impact bonds, into our financial models of well-being. This new model is now specifically aimed at tackling long-term unemployment. I hope they find new ways. I would also like to thank you here for the improvements in student support. In the future, the grants received by students will not be taken into account as income and the income of the parents of students under the age of 18 will not decrease the student grant or the housing allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u82	Mr President! I am a little confused that the Prime Minister during that Question Time spoke about the reform of family leave, that next season, when things get right, then let's start thinking about things like this, and on the other hand, the Minister said that we have a good pace of economic growth but it's beginning to fade. So is it now readable when I combine these two things with the fact that improvements in housing and lower prices of mobility, for example, are not going to be made? When you put these together, I'm afraid that's what this sounds like. I understand that we are talking about work, but people are also thinking about incomes that have to live on every single month. If the income from work is not sufficient for expenditure, it is not much fun. For us Finns, we would have had good ideas for living and moving for a couple of years, and we would have wanted them to be cheap. Minister, look at these.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u83	Mr President! I must say to Mr Hoskonen that there have been quite different choices of value during this regime than during the last term of government, because you have cut out all the people with the lowest income — pensioners, families with children, the unemployed, the sick — but instead of making a fair policy, you could still afford to make a billion euro tax cuts that favour the highest incomes. I have to ask you, what do you find on the basis of your choice of values, that the poor are cut off and the rich are given. This policy cannot be accepted by the Left Alliance. We are now making a statement that a supplementary draft budget will be brought to Parliament without delay, which will fully compensate for the cuts made to the National Pensions Index and to the benefits linked to it during the Government term. What do you say to this, Mr Orpo? Will you bring this proposal from the Left Alliance to this Chamber so that we can help the poorest Finns of all?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u84	Madam President! By name, I will take up Mr Haraka's previous speech. He tried to justify the bad deeds of the previous regime by the fact that the last term of government took place in a situation in which the international economy was in disaster. It wasn't like that. [TimoHaraka’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u85	Madam President! We celebrated the improved employment, and the Minister also ended his speech with a great deal of ‘employment, employment, employment’ and good news. But when we look at what the government itself has done actively for employment, we cannot ignore how the active model is now reflected in this supplementary budget proposal. You have managed employment with an active model that cuts unemployment security for unemployed job seekers if they fail to get a job, and, as a result, this supplementary budget proposal now increases Kela's operating costs by EUR 11.4 million, which goes to the processing of increased income claims, to cover increased red tape expenditure, and this all reflects the fact that this active model has not been a successful model for promoting employment. Can you, Minister Orpo, recognise that the increase in Kela's operating budget is precisely because the active model has not worked as expected?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u86	Madam President! First of all, the most low income Finns have not been cut, on the contrary: the income support received by the most low incomes has been linked to the index and has been increased according to the index. Secondly, the most low-income pensioners receive a guarantee pension and the guarantee pension has been raised several times during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u89	Madam President! I'm gonna put these glasses on right so I can see the minister better. — Minister, you will bring in a very good law next year, the Military Accidents and Service Diseases Act, concerning conscripts who are injured or in the event of death. We have taken a legislative initiative by the whole Parliament — the signature of more than 100 MPs — to apply the law retrospectively until 2017, when peacekeepers in crisis management received this equivalent insurance cover. So for two years the Finnish garrisons have been outside of security. I am asking you now, Minister, and I am, in fact, begging — in this opposition, it is a bad thing to have to work twice as hard to get good things going: will there be any money left in December to get this matter of replacement for the militarymen and, among other things, the victims of Raasepor and their families to get justice? I thought, among other things, that this would be EUR 5 million for paperless people and their health care, and I would see if it would be possible to find a small amount of money — perhaps EUR 120,000 — there. This is a very important matter, and when we are all sure with heart we will experience this and think that it would be justice and moderation, how I saw at Christmastime,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u90	Mr President! A year ago, the SDP highlighted the shortcomings of the active model that penalises unemployment and, among other things, that it will increase Kela's income support expenditure and administrative costs. We were opposed to bringing this truly unequal model through with its weaknesses and proposed a number of improvements. But the government refused to withdraw the law. Now we are in a situation where the government is presenting us here today with EUR 11.4 million more money for Kela because of income support applications and the increased processing of the active model. Would it not be sensible, Minister, to withdraw the Act on Active Models, which would also prevent these increased costs from being incurred? It seems that, in this case of the active model, the increasing employment measure has been targeted at the employees of Kela. They've been employed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u91	Madam President! More about this economic situation: When you look at the beginning of this government, you have to remember that at the end of the last government we already had a yellow card for Finland from two international rating agencies. Had it not been for the economy to go well, we would have gone up in interest rates and every percentage that we would have increased in the interest rate would have been one billion out of the state budget. Then we would not have been asked what your policy is, then it would only be brutally taken. Look what happened in Greece, my friends. There, when they ignored the condition of the economy, pensions were cut by 50 percent. Did they ask the seniors? I'm sure they didn't ask. Central government salaries were cut by 30-50% depending on the person: if you had a family, a little less, from bachelors and women living alone about half. Is this what we should have waited for and left the economy to the Hungo, as was the case with a government? In other words, when we put the economy in order, it is worth remembering that we are not living in this island but we are living as one of the world's markets, whose future depends on whether our goods sell on that world market. If they don't, we're gonna get hurt. Don't turn the black white when it's not.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u92	Madam President! It seems that the active model has still activated the demos to bring it up over and over again. Now I have to remember what's going on. The alternative was either to cut everyone's unemployment benefit or to make a model in which their own activity can prevent it. I think it is much fairer to be able to prevent such a 5% cut with its own activity, and many have been able to do so, and many have also received the feedback that this has activated them, has been able to get a job, and many have also been able to get a job. It's also in the numbers. And, as Mrs Etla said, at least half of the employment growth that has taken place during this government is related to the measures taken by the government. As far as left-wing criticism of income tax relief, which has been significant, EUR 1.4 billion, is concerned, there is an ideological difference here. We think it is fair that more money is left in the hands of a working man and a working woman; you think it is fair that more money is left in the hands of the state; here the difference is, there is nothing to be done. But the truth is also that the underprivileged has relatively received more of these
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u93	Representative Jonah Räsänen, and then the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u94	Mr President! If you start with this active model, then when the government always demands of the opposition that you now present your own savings, this is where Mr Tuppurainen and Mr Taavitsainen put it. Save that 11.4 million, which will have to be put back in the well of Kela's hangover just to run the bureaucratic stroller. That's what you get away with when you leave out this unnecessary active model, which has only caused resentment in people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u98	Minister Orpo, reply, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u99	Mr President! Let's make it quick. Let's start with Kela. First of all, it is good for you all to know that the transfer of income support there has also been an important factor, which will increase the costs in Kela. And there really is a need — you used some kind of a hangover well — for an assessment, I think, of Kela’s ability to function, as the National Audit Office has also drawn attention to. I'm not sure it works in the most efficient way. This would be a good way to save taxpayers' money. Congressman Juvonen asked about military accident legislation. In my opinion, this is the case that if the Parliament, in its deliberations, wishes to grant these retrospectively, it is possible and the so-called Christmas gift money is there for that purpose. I could, at least on my own behalf, even though it is Minister Mattila's first point, throw the ball in the direction of Parliament. The active model is one of a number of government measures to increase employment. Great results have been achieved. But quite rightly, we must now all look to the future and talk about the necessary reforms that we need. Mr President! I hope I will have the opportunity to continue with the answers later, if I had one minute. [Second Vice-PresidentTuulaHaatainen: May you continue with your replies at the end,soto the ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u102	We have a limited time for this, 1 hour, so that we can now go to the list of speakers, and then if there is any further need for a debate, then let us continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u103	Madam President! Complementing the budget proposal for the coming year will provide one opportunity to discuss economic policy further. It is only right to keep your temper in the debate, as the election is less than five months away. In economic policy, credibility is everything. I would like to begin by congratulating the government on having received good input from the international economy during the last year of its work. Good luck, Minister Orphan. Finland is strongly attached to global supply chains and value chains, and the economic pull in Germany or the United States is always visible here too. Employment has improved and growth is felt. However, the words of criticism are correct in the way the government has stimulated its fiscal policies. There is a policy ahead of us in fiscal policy, and the financial sector behind us. The cuts were scheduled for the early stages of the government, when domestic demand should rather have been kept in better shape. On the other hand, relief has come to this stage when economic growth would have supported households and businesses anyway. Budgetary policy is the timing of everything, and now, at least not according to the textbook, this has been a countercyclical fiscal policy. — — — — The Prime Minister sometimes encouraged me to kick him in the knee if there's a politician in him. However, let us avoid this now, both in concrete terms and symbolically, whereas the government's policy is being kicked at the expense of the long-term economy. Madam President! In the supplementary proposal for the budget for the coming year, the Government proposes additional appropriations for good purposes from the agricultural support package to education and research. However, it is confusing why, for example, EUR 60 million in capital will come to the flagship fund for research and EUR 80 million in capital for vocational training and training export to the limited liability company — that is to say, a substantial increase in the amount that has previously been cut by a boring axe. We must remember that the state budget and the authorities implementing it are a natural way of channelling common funds for good purposes. The whole of central government finances should be kept under control and decision-making is in the hands of Parliament. It must be transparent. Small crumblings take budgetary power from a piece of the way beyond the constitutional order. Madam President! Another detail on this supplementary budget proposal: Kela has an increase of EUR 11.4 million in operating expenditure. We have to go back to what was said earlier in this Chamber. We said at that time and we say today, in the opposition, that this active model of unemployment security is an increase in bureaucracy. Now we see: money goes to Kela's administration, and at the same time the unemployed are being cut off. Applications for income support are increasing and Kela's expenditure, appropriations, increasing, bureaucracy is growing, but there is no clear evidence that this active model is behind the improved employment situation. In this respect, the government has a place for re-evaluation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u104	Madam President! It is therefore easy to continue with this wise speech by Mrs Tuppurainen. Indeed, Minister Orpo began with the fact that the supplementary budget at hand will increase government debt by just under EUR 200 million. Next year, therefore, the government will take on net debt of EUR 1.6 billion. This increase is not very large, but the direction is wrong. The fact that the deficit is increasing in a good economic climate reflects a bad government. The Ministry of Finance itself estimates that the cyclically-cleaned structural deficit will be 1.1% this year and 0.8% next year, well above the 50% committed. This deficit can and must be measured with great caution, but it also shows that the government has not taken good care of public finances, even with huge economic winds. What makes the situation serious is that there is going to be more bumpy developments in the 2020s. The government's own budget predicts that next year economic growth will halve. Some of the difficulties are unpredictable, and we cannot prevent trade wars or instability in the euro area, which populists on this and on the other side of the Atlantic can plunge Finland into. However, some of the problems are already known. The deteriorating dependency ratio maintains the sustainability gap that this government promised to eliminate. The deficit of around EUR 10 billion had to be eliminated, but this did not happen. Although this government weakened the position of the underprivileged — pensioners, students, the poor and the sick — more than any of its predecessors, even for the first time in Finnish history it managed to cut national pensions, yet it could not adjust public finances. About EUR 7 billion of that EUR 10 billion was left to the next government, of which we agreed with Mr Orpo. And the next government will hardly be supported by an equally favourable international economic cycle. Finland was not going to be all right. In the supplementary budget proposal, what is essential is not so much what is there, but what is not there. Of course, it was in vain to expect that the government would have initiated the five reforms required by the SDP, that is, the big five that specifically responds to the challenges of employment and growth in the 2020s: the first is the extension of compulsory education to a genuinely free second stage. The second is the reform of family leave. The third is the gradual transition to free early childhood education. The fourth is simple and comprehensive social security, i.e. universal security. And the fifth is a tax reform that encourages low-paid work. Mr President! The contribution of the complementary budget to education is welcome in terms of quantity but rather questionable in terms of content. The Research Flagship Foundation is expected to have capital, which further underlines the government's desire to move from strong fundamental research towards selective and somewhat political priorities. Success in selecting winning projects is uncertain, but failure in securing the basic level of higher education is certain. The fact remains that this government has been a hostile and hard-to-ear government to research and science. In addition to cuts in vocational education and training, there is now going to be privatisation. The funding of private enterprises in the field of vocational training, once again by the Foundation, does not improve the daily life of vocational education and training, which lacks teaching and teachers. If those funds had been put directly into the most urgent need, education and teachers, at least a third of the deficit would have been covered and a little more than that. There is now a missing EUR 190 million which will be added to vocational training in the alternative budget of the SDP to remedy the disaster that this government has caused. In any case, the programme of the next government includes a return to the honour of both higher education and vocational education. Mr President! Reference has already been made here to this detail, which, for its part, shows the disproportionate nature of the active model, namely that an increase of EUR 11.4 million is proposed in Kela's operating expenditure. According to the Government’s own press release, ‘additional funding needs are due to other types of work caused by income The sustainability of growth requires employment rates to rise above 72, to 75 in the first instance, but every additional percentage of employment or even higher rate of employment is more difficult than before. That is why there is a need for real investment in employment services that involve those who are hard-to-work and those who are able to work part-time. There is also a need to make less effort to remove the question of availability and more practical measures to get the second year of waiting in the country out of the queue. Finally, I would like to point out that the government is indeed privatising employment management, which usually does not help those who are hardest hit by employment. The complementary proposal proposes an investment in the Social Investment Bond (SIB), which provides private investors with a return on successful employment. As far as integration is concerned, the private finance model does not seem to achieve its objectives at all, so the employment SIB faces the same challenges. However, as a positive final statement, I would like to express the hope that the previous experiments have been learned and that better results will be achieved. Everyone who is employed is a step towards a more sustainable Finland, and when the severity increases, the degree of creativity must also be increased. Finland is at its best when Finland is at its bravest.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u105	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Complementing the budget would have been a good opportunity to correct the inequalities in the budget and to correct the fact that the original budget will weaken the purchasing power of the lowest-income people next year. In its supplementary proposal, the government should have corrected the index freezes on basic security benefits, the most affected by which the beneficiaries of unemployment benefit and national pensions. All other previous cuts and 30% increases in social welfare and health care charges will also be left in place, even if they could have been corrected at this point. After all, this period has seen the government cut hundreds of millions of euros from the livelihoods of people on low incomes. The government will not correct the EUR 20 million cut in reimbursements for diabetes medicines it made last year, it will not correct the increase in travel compensation of more than EUR 11 million in 2016 for sick people, it will not correct the increase in reimbursements of EUR 12.5 million. The government does not intend to refund the allowance for coeliac disease or the EUR 70 million cut it has made to study aid. It would have been possible now to correct all of these in this supplementary proposal. Apparently, the only thing missing is the will. The low-income pensioners in every corner of our country are currently facing very serious difficulties. They do not have enough money for housing, food, medicines and social and health care customer fees and other necessities. An elderly person had been told at the pharmacy that you would go to the flea market and sell things so that you could buy your medicine. Mr President! In Finland, the state finances have become in a negative state due to the excessive demands of the rich. The income and property of the rich have increased. This is the result of preferential tax reductions, in particular for those on good income. The Sipilä government has been loose for the well-earned and tight for the low-income. At the same time as the income of the rich increases, the wages, pensions and social benefits of the low-income have remained unchanged or decreased. The government parties will only answer the pensioners that the state's money is not enough, try to take care of yourself. A verse in Matthew’s Gospel compares with the politics of the Sipilä government. It reads as follows: ‘Anyone who is given, and who is not, shall be excluded from this. “ This becomes a saying of the Matthew effect, and it means a accumulation of benefits for those who already have them. This is the policy of the Sipilä government. The rich have been given money, the poor have been taken. The government has taken on debt to compensate for taxes that it has not dared to collect from the richest citizens. Even low-income pensioners have been cut by the government when they have not wanted to increase the taxation of large incomes and assets so that Finland can take care of its citizens and the increased tasks of the state. Mr President! I will return to the active model of unemployment security that has already been discussed here. Indeed, everyone in this Chamber last year knew the flaws of this active model that penalises unemployment and, among other things, that it will increase Kela's income support expenditure and administrative costs. The SDP opposed the introduction of this unequally active model of unemployment protection, with its weaknesses, and we proposed improvements. However, the government refused to cancel it or correct the proposal, and now we are in a situation where the government is proposing EUR 11.4 million more money to Kela because of the increased processing of income support applications and the active model. Especially bad is the fact that the active model does not focus on finding the strengths of the job seeker and thus perhaps finding a new job and a new job. Nor does it place emphasis on the responsibility of society for employment or encourage companies to create more jobs. Instead, it will reduce unemployment security and make the situation of those who are already in a difficult economic situation even worse, thereby increasing poverty. Don't you think it's time to cancel this unequal law?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u106	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I will comment in just a few words on the Government's proposal to supplement the 2019 draft budget, which is now under discussion. Mr President! As a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I think it is very important and good that more resources are allocated to child protection. Persistence, faith and hope in children are very important and that we create hope and a vision for the future. Resources will be allocated to strengthen the resources of child welfare foster care management and supervision, and that is a very good thing. On the other hand, poverty in Finland: We have heard and read about it, and here too a great deal has been said that inequality is increasing in Finland. It is a good thing that the government is raising the guarantee pension, but it does not affect the smallest low working pensions. Usually, an elderly woman with a very low income is the one with a small pension. This guarantee pension is interesting. Its increase is linked to the fact that we have Agenda 2030, one of the objectives of which is to eradicate poverty in the world, and in Finland, as I understand it, our step towards poverty eradication is precisely this increase in the guarantee pension. Well, the guarantee pension is all right, and a lot of people need it. People who do not have adequate pension provision are entitled to this, both citizens of our own country and citizens arriving in Finland at some point. They are also entitled to that guarantee pension at a time when there is no other income. We can therefore consider that we should raise those lowest pensions in the first instance, because it is also important to take account of the appreciation for the work of the cleaner, the seller or the carer, in these low grades, as well as the increase in wages in the female-dominated sectors in general and in the social and health sector in particular. Pension comes from how much you get paid. That pension is what the salary has received and the lower the salary, the smaller the pension will be in the future. Equal gas and food are equally valuable to all, and it is the truth that one hospital job, one time when a person is hospitalized, plunges a person — if low income — into complete chaos. A couple of days in a hospital for a low income is a disaster. Just one of my acquaintances has recovered and settled out of the hospital, and there has been a really big bill ahead, and now that we went to the pharmacy for the first time, the medicines cost him EUR 160. When he was a pensioner, a low - income person, he began to wonder how all this would be paid. I mean, seriously, it's totally shocking. When you are witnessing next to it, you are involved in taking those drugs and you realize that this is the price tag, then you will understand. When you experience and see, you only understand. Madam President! Here I have already raised this military accident law, and I would like to tell you about it: on 1 January 2017, a major reform of the law was carried out in Finland to improve the insurance cover of peacekeepers, i.e. those who go to Afghanistan or the world to secure world peace. If accidents or deaths occur there, these persons or their relatives are entitled to compensation, and that is correct. But while this important law was brought into force, we were forgotten by our garrisons who perform a statutory obligation to be in the army. You have to go there or you go to jail, you have to go to that army. Then the voluntary women who perform that service and the civil servants were also forgotten. We then made a bill here in Parliament, and it kicked the law forward. Now we have a proposal in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but it was not perfect either: there must be a gap of two years when the garrisons have not had any insurance cover, at least something comparable to what the peacekeepers have had. However, when injuries, accidents occur, in our bill we propose that these compensations be paid back two years for those who have been injured or have become fatal. There is talk of such a small amount of money, and of course I understand that there has been much talk of retroactivity here as to whether this can be done. Even when I asked about the names of the bill, many Members of Parliament and I discussed whether this has been done in the past and how it should be done. But it is possible to do so. The second possibility, of course, is what my esteemed Minister Petteri Orpo has already mentioned that this requires the will of the Parliament, and if Parliament so decides, he wanted to roll the ball over to the Ministers of War. I do think it is very important that, in some way, if we are unable to make changes to the articles and are not able to deal with this issue retrospectively, we would understand this and take it forward as a common will mode and take into account those who have, for example, disc injuries, knee joint injuries, ankle injuries. After all, all this happens, let alone shocking accidents, such as this Raasepor train accident, where three young men perished. I've had a conversation with a young man's father, and he's given me permission to tell this story because he's made it public. We have had a distorted view in Parliament that these victims have received some compensation from the motor insurance side, among other things. This has not happened; for example, the parents of this lost son have received a little compensation of EUR 4,000 just for funeral expenses, nothing more. They haven't gotten anything else because there's been no insurance cover. This seems to be a heartless and brutal and absolutely terrible thing, but if there is understanding and heart and humanity in Parliament, then together we can put this matter in order. And I hope that even if there are no hearing ears here, there would be hearing ears that would understand. In this budget, we are giving EUR 5.3 million in undocumented medical care, for example, and we are allocating the same amount for this year as last year. Of course, as a nurse, I understand that we have a duty to care for. When a person is sick, you have to give him medicine. When a person needs help, he needs help. I myself have taken a nurse’s oath, and I understand that this must be done. But I would also reasonably see that we would then know who the people are, who we give and who we treat. This would be possible, among other things, by registering these people, who may be waiting there on the streets of Finland now that the frost bridge has arrived and may be hungry and need a place to sleep. Finland opens its arms, Finland opens its doors and gives the medicine, gives the accommodation and gives the food. There is humanity involved, and we are also prepared to give it to those who are trespassing in our country, that is, they have gone through the process and are no longer entitled to remain here but will not leave the country. With these questions in mind, I would also like to think that the door and the heart and arms will be opened to these conscripts, for example, and we will see that they are our future and are carrying out a statutory service, and then, if you feel so, we will decide together. This is how I wish. I would like to thank you for what is in this budget. In particular, I would like to increase the resources allocated to prescription training for nurses. I have asked many written questions on this issue when I am concerned that nurses themselves do not have the money to pay for the good, important training that society needs. It is a huge saving potential for small localities and help doctors that they have a good right hand, such as a trained nurse who
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u107	Madam President! This is the time when Parliament's evenings and debates are used for the presentation of the opposition's own shadow budgets, and this is the way of this Parliament, and it is fully justified. Of course, some of these shadow budgets are left to a minor extent, and they often leave out the details of where that money would be taken from, or where the actual acts promised in the shadow budget would be plundered. I also understand that it is very difficult for the opposition to acknowledge or give greater commendation for all the greatest work on equality that this government has been able to do with one voice: to create more than 115,000 jobs in this country over a period of three years. Work in general is the best social protection, the best, sustainable way to fix families, to anchor people in society and to prevent exclusion. These speeches have been somewhat silent since Etla published the results of the 12th month in which Etla states that half of the increase in jobs is due to the policies pursued. They note that the Competitiveness Pact and labour supply reforms have contributed significantly to growth and, according to Etla’s estimate, brought about half of the more than 100,000 jobs achieved during the Government term. They say that Finland is in a position to achieve an increase of around 2% in the next parliamentary term. However, the continuation of rapid growth and the target employment rate of 75% require further structural changes. That Etla's message is that even though Finland has really been put in good shape in a responsible and painful way during this term of government, Finland is still not ready, and we need a responsible policy in the future. In many ordinary people, simply stating the employment rate and stating the significance of every percentage point of employment is certainly not a lot of emotion in itself, but as soon as you open up what that 1 percentage point of employment is capable of achieving and what the sum is, everyone may wonder more about what it really is. That increase in the employment rate of one per cent is about EUR 1.4 billion in public finances. Just now, in Question Time, Minister Berner mentioned, for example, our road repair debt, our transport infrastructure debt, which we should invest in new things. Let's talk about billions of things. Road repair debt is about 2 billion. With a 1 percentage point increase in the employment rate, a large part of that would have already been realised. There are many of these examples. That percentage of employment rate is about half of our defence budget. There are numerous examples. Minister Orpo has just said in his speech that our main task has been and will be to take care of employment. This will be a major challenge for the future, and especially in this situation, when, in a way, we have growing younger and younger age groups coming in the future. We must make a responsible policy to ensure that every person who is able to work part-time is able to work according to their own abilities. This government has made significant efforts to make it possible for us to understand in jobs that we do not have to be 110 % people in order to be able to participate in some way in working life. This work has been carried out with enthusiasm throughout Finland, and that work must continue. It is right and reasonable that every disabled person — some people with mental health problems perhaps, others with functional limitations — should also be able to feel that his contribution to society is significant and, through the work, they too would be able to attach themselves to life. But one of the biggest challenges we will face is that the work and the factors do not face. I come from Upper Savo itself, a region that is a loss zone, but at the same time we have a very strong industry, with expertise and industrial and business activities developed around Ponsse and Ponsse as a flagship. There's a sore, screaming shortage of employees. How we get employees from Finland and from outside Finland to different parts of Finland is a question of fate and one of the biggest challenges that the future government is facing. We must do everything in our power to ensure that we have children, that we have people who are able to work and want to take up jobs and that we have entrepreneurs who dare and dare to employ. Companies are born where employees are found. And these things I have just listed do not look at the color of the skin, but we should be welcome here to work elsewhere as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u108	Mr President! When that was mentioned as a guarantee pension, I would like to say here that the Finns of Finland claim that the mid-term index of low- and middle-income pensioners will be introduced, which means that improving the status of pensioners is very important to us. I welcome the fact that this government proposal allocates additional resources to, among other things, the police action, and this is also presented by the Finns of Finland in their own alternative budget. In particular, I would like to raise the issue of elderly people in Finland and their situation in terms of safety. Last night we were able to read how elderly people had been subjected to financial crimes and scams, and it seems that this is almost daily and weekly in Finland. An aged person is easily tricked, and among other things, fishing for bank card IDs and other things is commonplace. I don't know what kind of lesson we could use to improve that security. Is it going to get better by adding more cops, after that fake cop's gone to the old man's house to make phone calls and ask for ID numbers? But in some ways we have a fundamental problem in our society. At some point, I have taken an initiative on measures to ensure that, when the safety programme was updated, this improvement in the safety of older people would also have been taken into account. It is a matter of heart for us Finns. When we look at home care for older people, for example, it is currently in crisis, and a lot more resources are needed for it, and we also take into account that always reducing the location of an institution is not the best solution — it may be good for a person to have a place of care — as is the fact that there is sufficient care. Mr President! Here are a few points — I have already taken the floor. Family nurses, they shouldn't be forgotten. That is how this society revolves around us taking care of our weaker ones and allocating resources to those who need them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u109	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 23/2018 vp. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, in the order I am considering, I will give you 1 or 2 minutes of responses.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u110	Mr President! We have just discussed the coming year, and now we are going back to this year, and the basis for this is the second amending budget of this year. In the second amending budget this year, revenue is estimated to increase net by EUR 483 million, while appropriations will be reduced by EUR 2 million. The additional revenue is particularly influenced by the positive development of tax revenues and, among other things, by additional revenues from the EU for rural development and the additional revenue generated by the increase in allowances. In the amending budget, an additional EUR 40 million is proposed for short and fast-acting training events to alleviate the shortage of experts. The language training of immigrants will also be increased. An additional 46 million will be proposed for basic infrastructure management and an additional 35 million will be proposed for the extension of the SME initiative programme. EUR 20 million is proposed for the development and maintenance of shipping services, EUR 19.3 million for the rehabilitation of veterans and services to be taken home. EUR 7.5 million will also be allocated to ease the profitability of agriculture. In turn, the use of the funds will be reduced by a reduction of EUR 156,2 million in central government contributions to unemployment security and EUR 80 million in income support, which is due only to an increase in employment rates and an improvement in the economic situation. Less money is also spent on the lower use of renewable energy production aid, which amounts to EUR 52 million in total. The need for net borrowing is reduced by around EUR 485 million, and the net borrowing is estimated to be EUR 1 billion 250000 this year. The amount of central government debt is estimated to be EUR 107 billion at the end of this year. Mr President! The proposal for a decision in the report of the Committee on Finance is as follows: ‘The second amending budget Furthermore, ‘Parliament rejects amending budget initiatives42,43,44,45,46,47,48,49 and50’. And further: ‘The Commission decides that this second amending budget will applyto power1.12.2018from now on. “ - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u111	Mr President! As Mr Kalli said, this second amending budget is particularly appropriate for this year's situation. Yet there is a great deal of reform and investment that should have been put in place already in the course of this year. In fact, the two most important points raised by the Social Democrats in their own protest were investment in education, which has been cut by hundreds of millions during this term of government, and investment in a genuinely active employment policy, and, in practice, perhaps in addition to the active model of what we are talking about today, that is to say, how successful municipal experiments — on the proposals for change that we will be voting on tomorrow — we have proposed EUR 5 million — and, in a situation of increasingly difficult employment, to rely on organisations to provide more employment. On several occasions, there has been a debate about repair debt and the necessary investments in the fairway. It now seems that the EUR 300 million annual reparation debt investment agreed in parliamentary cooperation will not be carried out immediately, this promise will not be fulfilled. The Social Democrats suggest that at least 100 million would now be invested in bus maintenance plus another 100 million in new routes. All in all, therefore, we have tabled 14 amendments that would take Finland to the 2020s, a career of more sustainable growth and employment. I am a little surprised to say that only one amendment to this amending budget by the Left Alliance will be put to the vote tomorrow. Obviously, then, for a large number of people as it is, or perhaps even this is the case, that at this stage in the parliamentary term, hope has already been lost in relation to this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u112	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the government is now giving a far too modest amending budget. As a member of the Committee on Transport and Communications, I would have liked the government to have added money to basic infrastructure management. Safe roads in good condition are vital to regional employment, tourism and vitality. A well-functioning road system and fast rail connections would contribute especially to the accessibility and grip strength of Eastern Finland, so that people can live in Eastern Finland, and companies can operate and employ them in particular. Mr President! It was worse last winter than it was in 20 years. This was seen in people’s everyday lives as bumpy roads, collapses on the sides of the roads, and weight limitations on various sections of the road. All of these increased transport costs for professional transport by means of longer alternative routes or less cargo. Also because of the quieter sections of the road, the longer journey time resulted in additional costs. For consumers, these all mean expensive services and products. Both professional drivers and private drivers are clearly less satisfied with the condition of the roads than before, and not for no reason, because in many places the road is in an appallingly poor condition. Road paving funds allocated by the state to the regions of South Savo, North Savo and North Karelia are approximately EUR 6 million lower this year than they were in 2017. The so-called correction debt has been scarcely available this year. So this year, EUR 6 million less money in use than in 2017. The forecast for the end of 2018 is that we have some 1,300 kilometres of bad state roads, i.e. in my region, and this is an increase of 100 kilometres compared to 2017. Now, in the amending budget, it would be perfectly possible to correct this financial deficit if the government had the will. As Mr Harakka has just said, at least 100 million have been thought of here in the SDP's alternative budget. As far as next year is concerned, this situation will be a total disaster when the government reduces the basic money for road repair, and for us in South Savo this is a very central delay in our vitality, because the most important thing in our region is that the state grants more money for the maintenance of roads, gravel roads, railways and bridges.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u113	Mr. Speaker! Maintenance of basic roads is a very big challenge, it needs to be recognised and identified, but I would now like to remind you that the correction debt for this year will be transferred to EUR 143 million in transfer appropriations next year, which is 43 million better than the proposal made by Mr Haraka. But, of course, this money is not enough, so the challenge is very hard. We are talking about hundreds of millions of euros, up to a billion euros, and that is why we need to make efforts and find more sustainable solutions as to how we will manage this national property in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u114	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 21/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u115	Mr President! The Government's proposal concerns new restrictions on interest rate reductions required by the EU directive, which must be provided for from the beginning of 2019. The original restrictions on interest rates imposed by the Directive entered into force from the beginning of 2014. The report by the Committee on Finance contains one amendment. It concerns Article 18b(5) of the Commercial Tax Act, which concerns the regulation of balance sheet comparisons. This regulation is very important for many large international export companies in Finland because it allows interest rate reductions to be made. The expert consultation of the Tax Section made it clear that the proposed balance sheet comparison model is not working. In practice, this would result in almost overwhelming work and high costs when the group consists of a large number of foreign companies and comparable balance sheets have been drawn up using a different method. Comparison must also be possible in practice. According to the provision proposed by the Government, a balance sheet comparison could only have been made if the taxpayer had presented a consolidated consolidated consolidated balance sheet as it would have been if it had been drawn up using the same set of rules as the taxpayer’s balance sheet. This means that the consolidated balance sheet would have to be prepared in accordance with the Accounting Act. According to the amendment, it is possible for the taxpayer to present its own balance sheet as it would have been if it had been drawn up using the same set of rules as the consolidated balance sheet, i.e. in accordance with IFRS. For the sake of clarity, it should now be noted that under the current rules, the taxable person’s balance sheet and the consolidated balance sheet to which the taxable person’s balance sheet is compared need not be drawn up under the same rules. Instead, according to the revised Directive, the balance sheets to be compared must be drawn up in accordance with the same accounting standard. In its report, the committee has also clarified the transitional rule for old loans taken before 17 June 2016. So this date comes from that directive. The expert hearing drew attention to the detailed arguments of the Government’s proposal, which also require the loan to be drawn before 17 June 2016. This interpretation was considered to be contrary to the purpose of the provision, since, in particular for long-term projects, the loan is typically not raised at one time but in several instalments. The committee notes that the transitional provision is intended to be applicable to loans which have been agreed in a binding manner and which could have been withdrawn by 17 June 2016. Therefore, the fact that a loan item will be raised at a later date does not preclude the application of the provision and the exclusion of net interest payments from interest relief restrictions. Similarly, if the loan agreement was concluded before 17 June 2016, it fulfils the conditions for the application of the transitional provision on old loans, even if the loan was subsequently drawn up in full after 17 June 2016. The Directive allows for the exclusion of loans to finance long-term public infrastructure projects from the scope of the reduction in interest rates. One condition is that the project produces, develops, uses and/or maintains large-scale public-interest assets. The Government’s proposal does not provide for a derogation for general infrastructure projects. Only social housing is excluded from the scope of interest relief restrictions. This has been influenced by the State aid aspects involved. In general, infrastructure projects are not linked to loans. As a result, projects have generally been excluded from the scope of the interest relief restrictions until now. As the restrictions now extend to external interest rates, the status of large-scale loan financing projects will change. This will increase financing costs and make project implementation more difficult if the scope of the derogation cannot be extended. The committee considers it important, Mr President, that the derogation provided for by the directive is widely used. In the meantime, however, the Commission’s position on State aid must be confirmed. Since this is a matter of social importance, the committee proposes two statements on it. First, ‘the Commission requires the Government to immediately continue with the Commission’s report to limit the And the second statement: ‘The Commission requires that the government continue immediately with a report from the Commission to limit other limited infrastructure projects “ This report contains two objections. The committee agreed on these statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u116	Mr President! In the debate on the referral of this legislation on the reduction of interest rates, I have already expressed a number of concerns about where this preparation has gone, and I am not very surprised that these serious concerns, which undermine the bite and purpose of this law, have not been taken into account in the committee's report. In fact, I am talking about everything that the President-in-Office has just ignored. Indeed, for the first time, the reduction in interest rates came into law when it was presented to Parliament in 2012 by the then Minister of Finance, Urplainen. The aim was to address the problem of interest rate friction, which avoided paying taxes and which had been committed, among other things, by private health service companies, which received a great deal of attention. It is very unfortunate that, at the recent Question Time, this issue was presented as if the law presented at the time had been inexorably inadequate in itself and that the same procedures would now be pursued on the same basis, while it should first be noted that it was a significant improvement in the fight against aggressive tax avoidance and, secondly, that already then in 2012 Parliament was obliged by the Ministry of Finance to monitor the development needs of the law and take the necessary legislative action. And now that the Ministry, under the obligation of this Parliament's statement, examined the functioning of the current legislation on interest rebates and concluded that, above all, the balance sheet exemption regime which is most seriously damaged by this legislation should be abolished, such a proposal came in. Unfortunately, contrary to the purpose of this original law, the lobbying of industry was successful and this point was returned to this bill, like a few other factors that facilitate aggressive tax planning. The most serious of all, therefore, is the restoration of this balance sheet exemption. After all, the first draft law of the Ministry of Finance has already stated that this anomaly has made use of tax planning which is deplorable to the tax base — and this would now be allowed to continue by a majority of the committee. The most recent example of this is the international group, which is active in electricity transmission in Finland, namely Caruna, which, according to Finnwatch's calculations, has benefited EUR 12 million thanks to such internal interest rate friction and the balance sheet exemption it allows. 11,000 Finns signed a petition to abolish the balance sheet exemption, but it was still decided to keep it there on weak grounds. It has not been demonstrated that Finnish companies would suffer more than Swedish, Dutch and Italian companies — in countries where there is no balance sheet exemption exemption — that such an initial change in the draft Ministry’s draft law to prevent aggressive tax planning would be carried out. Now, if the law had been made according to the original proposal, then Finnish companies would have been able to change their own financial structures in good time, but we are now doing the law on the terms of the financing structures of Finnish companies, which means he is waving the dog. We have seven different titles here in which we believe that this proposed reduction in interest rates does not serve the purpose of the EU directive, namely to combat aggressive tax planning and tax evasion, and that is why we are proposing an amendment to the first draft law in accordance with our objections, as well as three statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u117	Mr President! Indeed, quite often in this Chamber and outside this Chamber there is talk of outside parliamentary powers and that legislation should remain prepared and regulated by this government. Often reference is made, among other things, to employee organisations and the ay movement, to their excessive use of outside parliamentary means to obtain bill proposals of their liking. Now that large companies have been lobbying in the middle of the preparation so that the original government proposal has been substantially changed, there has not been much of a finding of those who have criticised the outside parliamentary powers for interfering with Parliament's legislative powers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u120	Mr President! I too am delighted to support the proposals made by Mr Haraka.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u121	Mr President! The section heard a very wide range of experts on the limitation of interest rebates and balance sheet freedom, and we received a very comprehensive report on the competitive situation in Finland vis-à-vis other Nordic countries and other competing industrial countries. I personally, at least, became convinced that this law currently under discussion with these amendments, which are required here, is not more generous than, for example, Sweden or Germany, although comparisons are very difficult, because in every country this issue is being looked at in a slightly different way. In other words, I can assure you that this legislation will not necessarily have a very large flood for new companies in Finland. And yet, when we should create conditions to ensure that Finnish companies operate, this law, which is the basis of the proceedings, serves this issue well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u122	I will give you the answer now that there is only one real request for the floor. As a rule, this is not the case, but this time, Mr Harakka, you have the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u123	Thank you, Mr President. The esteemed chairman of the committee, Mr Kalli, expressed a view which, in rare cases, is difficult to agree with. This is not, in principle, a law designed specifically to ensure the international competitiveness of Finnish companies, but, as the title of the directive says, to prevent tax evasion and also to prevent aggressive tax planning. After all, the aim is that, when one of these rules of the game is agreed internationally, the national competitiveness of any country will not be weakened compared with others. That is the principle. If we all take steps to protect our own competitiveness and pick raisins out of buns, then this collective effort against aggressive tax planning will not be done. 60 companies have been subject to an interest-rate reduction restriction which would otherwise not have been applicable by virtue of this derogation, which should therefore have been abolished because the purpose of its law will not be fulfilled in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u124	Mr President! Yes, the proposal by the Social Democratic Minister for Finance, Mrs Urpilainen, for a balance sheet comparison, was in spirit equivalent to what the current government's proposal corresponds to. That is different if there have been some different versions of the preparatory phase, but the government proposal and the proposal made by Urplainen in due course accept the balance sheet comparison rule. In this government proposal, we had to correct a technical blunder, and it was necessary that this provision should generally become applicable. But otherwise I would say that someone might think that Mr Haraka's speech had a little bit of a taste for soiling his own nest in relation to Minister Urpilainen's presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u125	Mr President! The President-in-Office of the Section has, in my view, already used a rather inappropriate language in public for the second time, and then let each of us respond to his own style. I suppose everyone understands that if pioneering legislation is introduced — for the first time such a reduction in interest rates — then it prefers to be overcautious. But Parliament required that we monitor how this legislation bites and correct the errors if necessary, and that is exactly what the Ministry had done. In other words, this law does not follow the will expressed by Parliament, and I find it very unpleasant that this important state-owned work by the Minister for Finance, Mr Urpilainen, is thus being dragged into the mud and hidden behind it when the government wants to dance with the whistle of large companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u126	Mr President! I would also like to point out that, if a company is engaged in tax evasion, we have a tax administration that can carry out tax controls and generally perform tax checks on large companies every five years, and we have a comprehensive tax avoidance code, there is Article 28 of the Tax Procedures Act, which is a general tax avoidance provision, and Article 31 of the Tax Procedures Act, which concerns transfer pricing — it can apply, inter alia, if we consider that a level of interest which has been used is not market-based. In my opinion, the Tax Administration in Finland works very well and certainly eliminates this kind of false tax evasion efforts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u127	Mr President! In this regard, the President of the Chamber now exaggerated the validity of this general tax avoidance clause. If the tax avoidance clause were applicable to all possible situations of aggressive tax planning, then no other articles would be needed. In many respects, it has been argued that this tax avoidance clause in itself and likewise the decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court have acted as if aggressive tax planning, using the exemption from the balance sheet, were finally made more difficult. However, a recent Defense Legis article in issue 4/2018 reviewed cases and found that these were isolated cases and aggressive tax planning through the use of balance sheet exemption is still possible in the fund structure as well as in other ownership structures. This has therefore been deliberately left in place so that Finland will continue to lose tens of millions of euros of tax revenue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u128	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 20/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u129	Mr President! The most important aspect of the Government's proposal is the abolition of the scope for interpretation of the VAT treatment of interpretation services. Currently, only interpretation services for the deaf are exempt from VAT on the basis of a specific provision. In addition to hearing-impaired persons, hearing-seeing and speech-impaired persons are legally entitled to interpretation services financed by public funds, but the VAT treatment of these interpretation services has proved to be open to interpretation in tax practice. The VAT treatment of interpretation services for disabled people will now be clarified and harmonised with that of other social services. Interpreting services for hearing, hearing and speech-impaired persons financed mainly by public funds or organised under the law are exempt from VAT as part of non-tax-free social services. Mr President! In addition, the provisions of the VAT Act will be updated to take account of the reform of early childhood education, which came into force on 1 September 2018. The report explicitly states that goods and services which have been subcontracted by an early childhood education provider would continue to be exempt from VAT when the conditions for non-taxation are met. Mr President! The parliamentary debate on the proposal for a reorganisation of social welfare and health care is still pending and there is no certainty of its final content or date of entry into force. The Committee on Finance therefore proposes to reject the proposal to update the VAT law on the reform of social welfare and health care. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u130	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u131	Mr President! I submitted a bill to increase the settlement of disputes in working life. In this legislative initiative, I propose updating the role of the Labour Council, because there have been so many changes in working life. The extension of the powers of the Labour Council would reduce the number of cases before the courts and improve the legal protection of citizens. It will be easier and cheaper to bring doubt to the Labour Council than to court, and the solution will come more quickly. The Labour Council is an independent special authority under the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, which provides opinions on the application and interpretation of, inter alia, the Working Time Act, the Annual Holidays Act, the Safety and Health at Work Act and the Young Workers Act. There have been many situations in which the Labour Council has issued legal instructions and the matter has been resolved in the workplace without a heavy trial lasting years. The use of the Labour Council is an option that is more favourable to the parties than the court. The lack of existing law is that an individual employee, employer, association of employees and employers and an association of entrepreneurs is not entitled to request an opinion from the Labour Council. It is not today that federations have to ask their central organisation or the Regional State Administrative Agency for an opinion from the Labour Council. The associations of individual employees, employers, unions and entrepreneurs can therefore, in the current law, be difficult to resolve. The current practice is complex and slows things down. I therefore took this initiative to amend the working council so that an individual employer, worker, workers' and employers' organisations and entrepreneurs' organisations can also request the opinion of the working council. In addition, I propose that the tasks of the Labour Council be extended to ensure that the Labour Council monitors and develops the labour legislation of its field of activity. The Labour Council would also have the right to hear witnesses, to strengthen reconciliations and to present compensation for damages or other compensation. Mr President! According to Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, everyone has the right to a fair and public trial within a reasonable period of time. The EU recommends low-threshold redress to its Member States as they can be used to complement traditional remedies in an affordable and efficient way. The Commission Recommendation calls on all Member States to ensure that they have fair, fair and rapid redress procedures and that they are not so expensive as to impede participation in the procedure. This bill would be in line with these very objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u132	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u133	Mr President! This is indeed my bill for the amendment of Article 88 of the Income Tax Act, which Mr Suutari has also signed. It concerns the tax exemption for strike grants for so-called illegal strikes and so-called political strikes. After all, this is more a matter of principle, since the tax exemption for strike grants is EUR 16 per day, not a very large amount. We know that the membership fee for interest groups is deductible from taxation and is also a duty-free income for its recipient, that is to say, a duty-free income for the benefit organisation. Well, I am not getting involved in this, but when these funds are given strike aid and when it is tax-free, it is theoretically a three-fold tax exemption. Nor does this concern the tax exemption from the strike grant itself, but it proposes that this exemption be abolished when the Income Tax Act is next on the table, if the strike is illegal — the illegal activity which society must not support — or is political, that is to say, not in terms of working conditions, but, for example, in terms of pressure on Parliament or things that are not on the agenda of the labour market. Mr President! This is what I did when we had a political strike and in it the children’s food supply was compromised. At the time, I was a little pissed off, and I decided to make a bill on this. But I think that there is an important point of principle here, and I do not believe that the lobbies are opposed to the abolition of such tax exemption as unnecessary and incorrect in principle.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u134	A 19th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u135	Mr President! I made this bill because it guarantees people access to a doctor. This is also a parallel bill, for the government has opened this health care law, and therefore the possibility of making a change to Article 51 of the Law was also opened. At the moment, people do not get enough time to the health centre, but often the reception time is too late to meet people’s needs. If you call and make time for a health centre today, you may be able to get a doctor by December, but probably not until January or February. According to the latest statistics, there are people in the queue who have been waiting for more than 90 days for a health centre doctor. The current Health Care Act does not set a time limit for basic health care, so it is no wonder that these medical periods are not available. Therefore, my bill proposes to add to section 51 of the Health Care Act: ‘If the assessment of the need for treatment indicates the need for a basic medical examination, the patient will be admitted to the doctor’s office on With this amendment of the law I want to prevent that when people’s troubles are prolonged, they always become more complicated. For example, patients with diabetes should not have to wait for doctor’s time in their foot problems. If diabetes-related foot ulcers are not treated immediately but delaying causes darkening and gangrene, there is a risk of foot amputation. Prevention and early help always help better than stalling. Well, here in Parliament we also have this much-speaked social welfare reform of the Sipilä Government, but unfortunately it does not improve this access to a doctor, because the Health Care Act as a substantive law still defines access to basic health care. There are no proposals for substantive laws in the context of government social legislation, because the government, according to its own words, is only doing the shells of the law and does not interfere with these substantive laws, and I wonder very much how the government has not understood the essence of the matter. The current situation can therefore be corrected by amending the Health Care Act and obliging municipalities and joint municipal authorities to organise the matter. This means, of course, that doctors' posts will have to be increased by at least a thousand, and in order to pay for this, the state will have to give more state subsidies to municipalities, and this is included in the SDP's alternative budget. However, this amendment of the law, and in this way improving access to the doctor, is going to be like the billion-dollar social welfare reform proposed by the government, to which hundreds of millions of euros have already been burned, but still nothing has been achieved but shocking stacks of papers, has actually helped people in distress and made it easier for them to get to the doctor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u136	Mr President! This representative Tavitsainen's bill is in itself a very good one, but his recent testimony to the reform of the government's social welfare and health care system was a little narrow, if you say so nicely. It was precisely because we have been doing this reform for decades, in a way that has been very good in the past, but now the world has evolved enormously, information technology is making its way very powerfully and smart technology is entering the market fiercely. Services are developing, medicines are developing, treatments are developing. Everything has changed in the last 20 years, when these treatments mentioned by Mrs Taavitsainen were much better available. The world has changed, the demographic structure has changed, everything has changed, so we definitely need reforms. What was good at the time, according to Mr Taavitsainen's proposal, has changed so drastically that we will no longer be able to move forward with that formula, that is clear. The idea of Juha Sipilä's government was precisely that we need to reform these structures of society. It is about working life, it is about health care, it is about everything in this society. We can no longer cope with what was in power 30 years ago. Mr President! Finally, to the extent that the greatest fear that we Finns seem to have is the fear of the future, we dare not react to what lies ahead of us. The only way to survive in future markets in the world and also in the health sector is to have the courage to reform the systems. Let us take one example: for example, the existing data-processing tools have come to stay in the health sector – there are very fine new technologies there – and the introduction of them alone requires radical changes to Finnish legislation. And that is what the social reform is for. The same applies to social security reform in the coming parliamentary term. If we do not have the courage to reach this millennium in that regard, then we will end badly. In any case, the costs will rise because the age structure of Finns has gone so wrong that we have a lot of elderly but children born in this country this year about 50,000 — only 50,000 children, new Finns, will be born in Finland this year. That is why we need to realise in this respect that we need to reform and create a new opportunity for health care as well as for all parts of society, because what was well in the past does not necessarily exist today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u137	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen, I would like to thank you for the floor, but I would like to remind you that although the world is in turmoil and everything has evolved, it has not gone anywhere, however, that a person needs a doctor's appointment and a doctor's time to get help for his problems. Many experts have compared the number of Finnish general practitioners with other EU countries, such as Denmark and England, and they have said that Denmark has no difficulty in getting to a general practitioner, i.e. a health centre doctor. There one general practitioner is responsible for approximately 1,100 patients. In Finland, for example, in large cities, such as Turku, Tampere and Helsinki, where doctors’ posts are best filled, the dimension may be one doctor per 3,000 inhabitants. In other words, Mr Hoskonen can easily calculate that it is a question of not having sufficient medical posts. They need to be increased, just as the SDP has proposed in its alternative budget, but in addition to that, we need to set a time limit in the law for at least seven working days to get a doctor's appointment. This then forces municipalities and joint municipal authorities to act legally. Furthermore, Mr President, this shortage of general practitioners in Finland is a source of disciplining for the sparsely populated countryside, and would like the centre to be able to take this particular issue into account. There is no improvement in the reform of the social security system.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u138	Mr President! We have a bit of a difference of opinion with Mr Taavitsainen on this issue. I know that Danish model, the health model in Denmark, in some way, through people living there in the family. Indeed, in Denmark, the system works precisely to ensure that the private sector and the public sector work well together, and so does Finland. If a person falls ill even when mentioned by Mr Taavitsainen — a foot sore — and if he does not go to the health centre, where the health care system is maintained by society, he can get there when there is a long queue, and he realizes that there is a private clinic across the street, it will cost them both exactly the same amount, whether he goes to the health centre or to a private doctor — where he is best suited, he can get a doctor right away. That is what we are trying to achieve here in Finland. As you know, Mr Taavitsainen, as a professional, at the moment in Finland, in health care, for example, with regard to visits to a doctor, it is the case that more than a million people already visit a private doctor directly, so they do not go to a health centre at all. Much more than half of occupational health care is taken care of through private companies, i.e. companies buy occupational health services from private companies. There are also city operators — I know that many cities have outsourced occupational health care to a private medical firm. So this, too, is nothing strange in this country, so that it is not worth going back to the 30th to 40th century, when the municipal doctor treated a huge number of patients. Yes, we need to integrate this private and public aspect into action so that that person can get there. Rightly, as Mr Taavitsainen mentioned, it is important that the person receive that medical treatment as soon as that leg is sick or the flu strikes, immediately, it is absolutely necessary. It prevents the patient from getting worse and is given appropriate treatment immediately and is able to move on with a healthy life. We Finns — thanks to our good health services and our good social system — have a very high average age and feel that it is rising all the time. And if I remember correctly, I read in a brochure or a press release that half of the girls born today see their 100th birthday. It is a challenge for the health system in the future that all these people, who live for so long, will receive good services during their lives and as soon as possible so that the disease does not get worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-22-ps-119.u139	Mr President! There are, of course, two different views on how to proceed. I myself think very much about how quickly we can move forward and improve people's everyday lives, and a good approach is also to correct and improve existing laws. Somehow I could also imagine that if the government had made such a change to Section 51 of the Health Care Act even though already in 2015, when you started, people would have been able to get to the doctor much earlier — you would have added EUR 100 million a year to the state transfers of municipalities so that municipalities and associations of municipalities could hire more doctors. In other words, it is also quite a viable option to correct existing laws. Somehow it seems that the government has also taken a bit too big a bite to bite when there are all the laws and reforms at the same time: there is regional reform, social reform, it includes farm surveyors, the environment, health care and rescue services, etc. So it's kind of the same as if you, Mr Hoskonen, were to buy a plot and start building the foundations at the same time for a detached house, garage, woodshed, warehouse, playhouse, doghouse and an outdoor toilet. When you and these foundations were at the same time doing business there, it would spread to the hands. No one would get away with it, but first we should make the garage where we put all the tools and then we can do the work, and then when the garage is ready, we'll start doing the house ourselves. I think, for example, that garage could have been this bill on social welfare and health care payments. There would have been a reduction in fees and shelter for people from the time when the focus would then have been on the home house where these content laws would have been improved, for example in Article 51 of the Health Care Act, to correct the time limit for access to a health centre doctor.
