ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-73.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 17/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-73.u2	Mr President! As the committee itself dealt with this proposal, it must be said that this whole process was not the most elegant possible legislative work in this House. So it is not the fact that the law is only coming into force in a few days' time, then the lobby of some industry will notice a gap that should be lobated, contacted the ministry, and the government will prepare the motion in a manner that is tailored to the wishes of this particular lobby, a particularly good starting point for this bill. Why have I been involved in this unanimously: the main reason for this was that there was an argument that this did not change the status quo, where we are now, and that argument could not be completely overturned. In other words, because this retains the current derogation, this was perhaps somewhat acceptable. Of course, the question is that the entire legislation of the taxi sector will change decisively. So in the past it was the case that there was a requirement to regulate the number of taxi licences, there was an obligation to place them on call, and of course it was clear that such tourist and service companies could not obtain taxi licenses. There were quite clear grounds for such exceptions, i.e. this sort of thing had to be regulated, or whether such temporary, service-related transport activities would have been impossible without a similar exception. However, since, on the one hand, there is no regulation of the regulation of taxis, no regulation of the quantities, no on-call obligations and no place of employment obligations, they are dissolved and a person who can obtain a licence for taxis and, at the same time, it should also clarify the possible criminality of this person and the corresponding circumstances which might make him unfit to carry the taxi, is this now justified in the current legal situation? I asked this question and did not get a particularly convincing or good answer to it, just that there have been no problems with the current regulation. And what is usually a tourist service, which is home service? It has not yet been defined. But there is no problem with that either, in this definition, even though it has not been done. Well, the second reason why this could also be acceptable is that, at the end of the committee's report, it is very precise that the consequences of this change should, in particular, be followed up in relation to the shadow economy and unfair competition. I look forward to the results of this follow-up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-73.u3	Mr President! This proposal is very appropriate in view of the law that will come into force on 1 July. Even at present, these activities have not been subject to authorisation, and it must be emphasised that these companies will continue to need a taxi licence, which is a completely new requirement compared to the current one. These transports carried out by tourism companies as described in the proposal are a very small part of the service package so that the main activity, i.e. this programme service in general, can be carried out. Customers pay in full for the expertise, experience and guidance of the guide, and I understand that this law mainly serves those small tourism service companies where the entrepreneur, including the entrepreneur, is just a few employees — maybe three, four, five. Large tourism programme service companies carry such large groups that they do need to use buses on order for their own services. Kuusamo, my municipality of residence, is one of the most important areas of nature photography in Finland, and naturally nature photography tourism is important. We have a lot of guides, guides that work for different companies. So this service happens that the guide goes and picks up a small group and then goes with them for a day, two to nature and there you go to different places — sometimes you look for mooses, sometimes you look for glutton tracks, then you go to the eagle stand, then you're in another place. So, thank you, committee, for getting this thing over with so quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-73.u4	Mr President! This is probably necessary for the tourism industry and will maintain the status quo. Of course, I must agree with Mr Mäkelä's critical words that this type of childhood legislation has gone through, and it is not as if it were quilling and seeking a certain degree of certainty at this point in time that it is a good piece of legislation. All in all, of course, it must be said that this taxi law, which will enter into force on 1 July, will have much more to criticise than that. I'm afraid this is going to be quite a disservice to the countryside. There, the removal of the station obligation and on-call obligations will make it difficult to get a ride, and many taxi companies, especially older ones, have said that they will no longer be doing business there. A lot of criticism has also come from the point where Kela rides are to be concentrated, through which these rides must always be applied for in certain areas. There, many taxi companies have calculated these costs of purchasing various billing devices and similar terminals that are almost EUR 10,000, and whether it is worthwhile and reasonable. On the other hand, these drivers have considerably stricter criteria, and then, for example, disabled people are no longer able to order the familiar driver from a place that knows, for example, the difficulties involved in their movement or, for example, the kind of aid they are using in traffic, but from there a car sent by the centre that does not meet their needs. In that sense, we must only hope that, especially in the case of these special groups, this will not become more chaos. All in all, I did not vote in favour of this reform of the taxi law, and I believe that this is most appropriate here in the capital region and in the growth centres. In rural areas and sparsely populated areas it will cause major problems. But it is good at this stage to put in order the actual presentation that is now on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-73.u5	Mr. Speaker! It is interesting that even shortly before the entry into force of the reform of the taxi legislation itself, there has been one such flaw in the law adopted and that can now be corrected before the entry into force takes place. Mr Mäkelä did well to reveal how this incident has arisen and how it has been brought forward. So it is pure lobbying in one area. Now, of course, the question arises as to whether this is the only fault, and it is quite clear that it is not. The upheaval in this sector is so great that there are certainly problems that need to be addressed. The government must therefore be expected and called upon to intervene promptly in the shortcomings that arise. Some of the shortcomings or problems that arise on 1 July and immediately thereafter may not even be remedied. For example, the heavy concentration and withdrawal of the taxi sector from the countryside and from the outside of the agglomerations will easily lead to a situation where it will not be possible to repair it later. Serious problems have already arisen with regard to Kela, and in this respect it would also be necessary to use reason after seeing where this is now leading. An unusual number of taximen have announced that they have already been looking for or looking for other work — they do not want to continue with this model, which has now been created. These are serious messages. We must be particularly concerned about the countryside and the services of people who need taxis and safe movement. There is also the possibility that there will be action in this area which will not be able to bear all the criticisms that must be tolerated. The grey economy is one serious issue that may arise here. That is why, of course, that statement, which has been included here, is important. And we need to consider whether this really needs to be taken even more seriously in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-73.u6	Mr President! First of all, thank you all for having us with this very important legal correction done on such a schedule. Personally, I don't remember in my own career that such a schedule would have been. But when there is really a need to fix something, that means acknowledging that things have not gone quite as they should, and correcting it. That is why we are here so that we can fix and do things in such a way that people do not suffer from our affairs but get better results. Indeed, this law applies to domestic and tourist service companies. When in the tourism sector, in the program service sector, this was noticed on 7.6., this came to most entrepreneurs as a complete surprise, and it certainly wasn’t our intention, at least on my side, that this kind of thing is done. I am on the Committee on Transport and Communications, and I too am surprised, I confess. This winter we have dealt with thousands and thousands of pages and an absurd number of issues in committee, and it would be strange if we did not have any mistakes, a childhood. I mean, none of us are perfect. Let us acknowledge that this can happen, and then let us begin to make things right. Fortunately, then, from the tourist service sector, lobbyists came to see what was at stake in this activity. And now this can be corrected so that such unnecessary taxi business activities do not come into play, but travel service companies will then only apply for this taxi business permit, the whole company will apply for one permit, and employees, many of whom may also be in foreign languages, would not be able to carry out a taxi card, i.e. the driver's permit, because the driver's licence must be carried out in Finland in Swedish or Finnish, and it would certainly not be possible for foreigners. But the other sector is then these home service companies. These are very small companies, small, modest operators, and they do not have such lobby organisations that their affairs could handle. I am very grateful that with this change we have also been able to help these small entrepreneurs, the modest players, whose interests are certainly not currently on the same footing as many other sectors. This law was originally introduced in the sense that there would be a great deal of taxicab liberalisation and that tourism service companies would then not have to do much of these changes. But when this law was adopted, it was tightened up and these taxi regulations were tightened up all the time, just in line with the wishes of taxi drivers, and then it became the case that tourism service entrepreneurs really suffered and were in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-73.u7	Mr President! Mrs Majala's speech may have been somewhat grudging about a good thing that I myself would see as more of a bad thing. In other words, with these foreign workers who are now driving these rides, I would like to ask the question whether they are now going to be safe drivers in Finnish conditions without even having to carry out any kind of licence from a taxi driver to prove their driving skills and ability to operate in that profession. After all, we cannot think that driving a taxi is something less than a profession that can be run with the left hand by anyone from a vertical forest. Well, this was one thing that was also discussed in the committee. In this case, when Mr Kankaanniemi asked about possible mishaps as to what might be involved in this matter, at least on this point, I would recommend that I follow, namely that the officials of the Ministry of Transport have a strange enthusiasm for concentrating all possible controls on Mr Trafi. Whatever needs to be monitored, Trafi will take care of. When asked how resources are available, there are always resources. So where are the resources now? Has it ever been loose in the past, or does it occur to you that in the future supervision will be dealt with in a worse way? So the steak in my somewhat malicious speech is to ask rhetorically how the Trafi is such a good authority to oversee matters in the opinion of the officials of the Ministry of Transport and whether it is perhaps someone else's opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-73.u8	Mr President! First of all, of these foreign workers, what these tourist service companies have: these are programme service workers, and they will not actually be transport entrepreneurs and operators and workers there, but the amount of transport they will be carrying a few hundred metres of people by car. It is the most common situation that a few hundred meters from one place to another is transferred from one place to another, no more than a few miles. In other words, such practical situations. If, then, for these reasons, an outside worker had to start hiring it, then it would have made no sense, since it would have cost an enormous amount of money. And it may be that a few hundred meters many times on a forest road, where they do these transfer tasks and functions. So it's definitely a country thing to win, isn't it? The second point, these control issues: especially in the tourism sector, it is indeed under control. It's not just Trafi who's doing surveillance duties there, it's all right, it's all over the place. There must be hygiene passports, there must be everything — well, now I don't remember the list, but there is an absurd number of all the activities to be monitored, and certainly they will be looked after at every step of the way. I do not believe that this is a risk factor of any kind, because if there is any problem in the tourist service business, they will have to pay immediately for the fact that there will be no customers. So for them, quality is really important that they are able to act. Then there is the third stage of this law. The third stage is currently in the consultation process, and that is what we will start to deal with in the autumn, in the winter, and can and is likely to be,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-73.u9	Mr President! In the north, tourism is growing at a record rate for the third year in a row, and good development and belief in tourism growth have led companies to make a wide range of investments. I would see that now in no case should such factors weaken international competition. This threat, which was now coming, was indeed a real troll for small programme service entrepreneurs and businesses, and it is good that it has now been corrected. These small tourist companies do bring work to others and bring jobs elsewhere, such as taxi drivers or hotels and restaurants, i.e. taxi drivers carry from the airport to the hotel, and then you need accommodation and food. There are threats and fears about the law that will come into force on 1 July, and it is good that the committee has now recorded that this should be followed up on how the law will be implemented. And, as Mrs Majala said, it is our job to straighten out and correct if there are errors in the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-73.u10	Mr President! I wanted to add that, in fact, at least in Lapland, the transport companies were pleased that this amendment is being made in this matter of law, because no one would have the resources to do so if taxis had to start all the short transports on the tourist side. There are absolutely no resources or lavish resources. There is no point in starting to increase employees and transport equipment for such functions. At least there wouldn't be any profitability. And, of course, these transport service companies have been very pleased that the more tourism we have, the more transport they have. It seems that in its entirety this legislative amendment is of great benefit to the various parties. So, once again, thank you all.
