ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Future, to which the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by the Government, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches and other pre-arranged speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, I can give you the answers I have considered in order of one or two minutes. The maximum duration of this referral debate shall be 2 hours. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda will be the fifth item. Prime Minister Sipilä will speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u2	Mr President! In politics, attention is often focused on day-to-day policy issues. It is equally necessary to discuss where we are going and how we can prepare for it in advance. That is what we now have the opportunity to do today. The task of the foresight reports is to highlight issues that are important for decision-making in the future. The first part of the Government Report on the Future was made in 2017. Now the second part of the report aims to identify desirable futures, decision-making needs and societal issues related to work. Several actors in our society have participated in the preparation of this report. I held a discussion session at four different universities as part of the preparation of this report. We discussed Finland's challenges over the next 100 years from the perspective of universities' own priorities. In Helsinki, the event had lasted all day and several dozen NGOs and researchers had been invited to attend. The change in work is due to the change in the world. Technological developments in particular change how, where and what kind of work we do. This change will not be stopped and the uncertainty it brings cannot be answered by sticking to the old structures. Instead, it is our responsibility to ensure that the structures change so that everyone keeps up with the change. As an example, the report suggests that our ideas on working ability need to be diversified. Competence and motivation must be seen as an important part of working ability in the same way as health. The solutions presented in the report for the transformation of work reach beyond the parliamentary term. They relate in particular to the takeover of the platform economy and artificial intelligence, the reform of social security and the strengthening of the relevance of work, and to the building of comprehensive, flexible knowledge throughout human life. Mr President! Skills are at the heart of the change in work. Changes in the demand for work and skills are fast. This parliamentary term is a good example of this: we now have a shortage of experts in Kainuu, Lapland and Uusimaa. Ensuring adequate skills requires teaching learning, co-operation and life-management skills at all levels of education. Lifelong learning and career skills reform must be developed as a whole. It must take into account people's different life situations, employment relationships and educational needs. The acquisition and learning of knowledge must also be seen as a matter for communities and businesses. It is a matter of society as a whole. Countries that are able to make the most of people's skills will be successful. For example, the report proposes a range of knowledge accounts and training vouchers to support continuous learning. The report suggests that the relationship between students and higher education institutions must be maintained throughout working life in the future. The opportunities for continuous learning will be improved as the digital education provision of higher education institutions improves. In addition, alumni activities need to be developed. Universities also play a key role in addressing regional needs; regional network cooperation between jobs and educational institutions must be further strengthened. Mr President! The solution therefore emphasises continuous learning and responding to the transformation of livelihoods. The transformation of work is a global issue. Migration and work-related immigration are at its core. All the solutions presented support the goals of Agenda 2030 for sustainable development. Much has already been done in the area of sustainable development. Perhaps the most significant step forward is the inclusion of sustainable development objectives in next year's budget proposal. It is also an internationally significant and new opening. Reporting on progress towards sustainable development to Parliament has been taken as a central part of the Government's Annual Report. We are currently in the government creating welfare indicators as alternatives to GDP, which will certainly benefit future governments. The social commitment to sustainable development is a national strategy for sustainable development and, at the same time, a concrete tool. A target and measurable commitment is a good tool for companies to develop their operations, for example. Almost 1,000 commitments have been received from all sectors of society. I have also fulfilled the commitment. I only met the Spanish Prime Minister in Madrid, and he had heard about the implementation of Finland's Agenda 2030 and, in particular, this commitment to society, and they were interested in following the example of Finland and asked for more information on this. Mr President! The vision of the report is based on how Finland copes with the change in work. This is an opportunity for Parliament to discuss whether we are all sharing this vision. According to the vision, both an entrepreneur, a hired and a platform worker and an employed person consider our social security to be fair and comprehensive. They also feel that they are getting support from our society when they need it. The vision takes care of people's ability to work and function regardless of the form of employment. In the vision, Finland will create a high-quality system of lifelong learning covering all social groups, known internationally as a success story similar to the Finnish comprehensive school. Everyone has the opportunity to earn an adequate income, to develop and to feel that they are an important part of society. In line with the objective of sustainable development, social differences between different groups will be balanced, the work will be valued and measured through its diverse social significance. Mr President! The development of long-term decision-making is becoming increasingly important in a world where risks increase and phenomena become more complex. Today’s generations may have a greater opportunity than ever to influence the living conditions of future generations. Overgenerational thinking is at the heart of future work and sustainable development. Work has already been done to respond to the break-in of work. The Government's policy on the overall reform of social security, basic income testing, the national AI programme and reforms at different levels of education are good examples that have been supported by the report. During its term, the Government has also taken a number of decisions to promote employment and entrepreneurship aimed at responding to changes in work and skills shortages. Maintaining a well-being society requires answers to these questions and a higher employment rate. Not all decisions are easy. The report states: ‘The Finnish labour market system has a series of but a small number of mobile components. “ There is still enough reform to support employment and meet the needs of today's working life. In addition to the solutions of the change in work, the report presents long-term decision-making. The development of major transformations and reforms cannot be planned in particular in detail. Instead, we can define the values and broad objectives involved and we can navigate towards achieving the objectives by learning and experimenting. Mr President! There are certainly points in the report that raise the debate, and that is the intention. The report must first of all be treated as a whole and as an opening for debate. I am sure we will now have an interesting debate on the future of the work. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u3	Then we go to the group speeches and Mrs Viljanen will speak on behalf of the parliamentary group in the centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u4	Mr President! It would be in Finland’s interest to calm the situation on the labour market in one way or another.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u26	Let's try to stay in five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u27	Mr President! Our attitude to change depends on how we perceive our own future as part of a break-in. It is human that the IT engineer's attitude to digitalisation is different from that of a stone-foot shop salesman who operates under pressure from an online store. The phenomenon that appears to be one of the new possibilities raises uncertainty in another. It is up to us politicians to provide solutions and to dispel people's uncertainty about the future. In Parliament we cannot decide the trends of global megatrends, but adapting to changes is in our own hands. Mr President! Ever since the 1700s, there's been a fear that the machines will take the job. However, a new need and form has always been found for human work. Braking is the wrong way to take it. Without technological development and global trade, our current standard of living would not be the world's top priority. Together, however, we must concern ourselves with the citizens who are hit by the revolution. Society’s task is to provide support for safe change and to believe in the future for everyone in Finland. Smart regulation of the platform economy, enabling continuous learning and flexible social security are key factors in adapting to change, as stated in the Government Report. Mr President! In the future, knowledge grows older and faster. That is why we need a system of education that provides us with good basic skills and teaches us how to learn and take on new things. The reform of vocational education and the raising of the importance of education not leading to a qualification have been steps in the right direction. Progress must continue. The focus must be on skills, not qualifications. The Coalition Party welcomes the various openings from career or educational accounts. The aim is to strike a balance between individual, employers and the responsibilities of society. Social support must be targeted primarily at those people who have the greatest need for security of change. The greatest need for updating skills is for a person who is unemployed. The unemployment benefit must be activated and enable you to update your skills during the unemployment period. The proposal for a measure to study with unemployment benefit is therefore warmly supported and in line with previous Government policies. Mr President! In the future, more and more people will earn their living from different sources. A person can be part-time and at the same time be a small entrepreneur. This will increase the flexibility of everyday life, but of course the fluctuations in income can also pose challenges. There will be no welfare society without a strong market economy and flexible labour markets. We need to understand what is already in the other Nordic countries. As more and more people are at work and labour productivity is high, it is also possible to take breaks from the working life of the future, with the support of society, for the care of loved ones. In addition to the reform of family leave, we need a family member who is in work who is able to stay close, for example, in connection with the serious illness of an elderly parent. Mr President! The best way to deal with the various changes in working life is to increase local flexibility and reform social security. The general support proposed by the Assembly for the solution would be flexible in combining work and security, making work more profitable. Even small-scale work would always overcome passivity. There would also be self-employed people in security. Mr President! We decision-makers have a big role to play in how Finland and Finns will manage as the work changes. A free and functioning market must be allowed to operate, but alongside social security and services in the welfare society will ultimately look after the welfare of each and every one of us. Reform is, in the opinion of the Coalition Party, the best security for change.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u28	Mr President! The Finnish strength is that we dare to discuss, take each other's opinions into account and want to understand each other. That is how we best define Finland's common direction and solutions to the challenges of our future. This foresight report is part of this debate. Although the second part of the report on the future should, under the heading, provide solutions for the change in work, it is still partly general and therefore needs to be put into practice in the committees. In this Parliament, we need to take an even bigger leap forward in shaping our future and finding solutions. The Group of the Party of European Socialists stresses that the debate on the future must go beyond the parliamentary term and be conducted in a broad sense. Therefore, the report on the future should continue to be submitted to Parliament in two parts and kept separate from the report on sustainable development. Mr President! Finland and Finns live from work and enterprise. Work is a guarantee of our well-being. Work brings meaning and content to life. Work gives many a sense of being an important part of the building of society. That is the case now and in the future. The second part of the foresight report under discussion is at the heart of society and its building blocks. Work doesn't stop, but it's changing and it's changing. Jobs are disappearing, but at the same time new jobs are created. We are faced with major global issues, such as technological development and climate change, through which it is possible to create new jobs. Unfortunately, the report does not recognise these possibilities. For example, there is no mention in the report of the Committee on the Future of Europe's Radical Technologies report, which presents a hundred new opportunities for Finland and the new work they will create. Sustainable development, the circular economy and climate change are identified as important themes, but not so much as enabling new work. Mr President! The transformation of work requires bold reforms and investment in the future. When work changes, decisions are needed to secure livelihoods and to distribute the fruits of work fairly, as well as legislative changes that will enable new work to take place. For example, with the expansion of the platform economy, we need to make decisions that will help Finnish society to strive for the next decades. An absolute prerequisite is the reform of social security, taxation and the family leave system. In the context of the 2030 Agenda, we Social Democrats have presented our own model and solutions for all these necessary reforms. In changing working life, workers' rights must also be safeguarded. It creates security and productivity, because the worker who looks ahead is always pushing further. Unfortunately, the future thinking of this government has not led to the necessary and far-reaching future investment required by Finnish society and the transformation of work. Analysis of the transformation of work has one thing in common, on which everyone agrees: they emphasise the importance of learning, knowledge and education as a success factor for the future. It is therefore regrettable that the cuts in knowledge, education, science and research that have been made during this parliamentary term jeopardise or shorten the knowledge leap that we need. In order to ensure a knowledge leap, the Social Democrats have put forward the Knowledge Path 2030, which includes a number of reforms, such as the extension of compulsory education, free secondary education and early childhood education reform. We also need the honour of science and research. Mr President! Finally, it is not only through the economy and competitiveness that work can be measured, and therefore the need for new indicators relating to the importance of work is further emphasised. It is good that the report also talks about the relevance of work, but at the same time it must be stressed that work cannot define the value of a person in society. Our society needs all citizens. Everyone's important. The definition of solutions is not just the right of decision-makers to decide on the direction of our future, which is why all Finns need to be more involved. We need a new type of committee work involving not only decision-makers but also non-governmental organisations and citizens' committees, organised in different ways. The challenge is to involve those who generally do not feel entitled to it in the debate on future work and sustainable development. Everyone's opinions and opinions are important. They're giving birth.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u29	President! The second part of the Government's report on the future will continue where the first was left behind. Solutions, guidelines and steps are now being presented for the transformation of work. The solutions are there, and as decision-makers we must discuss them, choose the best and lead our nation forward. The blue movement looks largely at the future and sees opportunities in the change in work. The transformation of work has a profound impact on how our society will be built in the future and whether citizens have jobs, livelihoods and, above all, security. A sense of security in the midst of changes is the most important thing that must be taken into consideration in all solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u32	Mr President! The second part of the Government's report on the future, which is now under discussion, is basically only a discussion initiative. The first section, Shared understanding of the transformation of work — one of the biggest challenges for Finland’s future — was here in the debate over a year ago. The main objective of the second part of the foresight report is to identify desirable futures, decision-making needs and societal issues related to work. These will mainly be considered and resolved by future governments: changes in legislation and, in particular, in social security. Mr President! In today's society, the forms of work and working relationships become more diverse. Platform economy, artificial intelligence, robotics and digitalisation bring rapid changes in the operating environment at an ever accelerating pace. The relationship between an employee and an entrepreneur changes, and more and more workers will become entrepreneurs in the future, whether they like it or not. This requires the decision-makers to respond to these changes. The report deals with changes in social security and future reforms to it. We Finns believe that if we can combine social benefits, earned income and capital income into a social security or welfare cycle, we can raise the rate of employment and participation to more than 75% in the coming government term. In our model, revenue would be netted immediately and payments of subsidies would not be cut if short jobs were received. We believe that we still have a lot of domestic unused labour in the reserve. We rely on domestic work and workers. They have raised Finland from the pit before, at the time of the recession, but now the middle and low-income have been left in the hole themselves. In the event of a change in work, the purchasing power of households must be taken care of, as the change affects households with different types of nitrogen. We Finns do not want to make it easier for cheap labour to enter our country to share the domestic labour market, nor do we want to distribute our social security free of charge to foreign workers or other immigrants in the future. Mr President! We understand the interests of the Fatherland. As a result, it is in our interest to be involved in technological change rather than following the change led by others. We are also convinced that the transformation of work must be managed wisely and in the long term in order to achieve better working life and well-being. Naturally, this brings with it new high-tech technologies, including robotics and artificial intelligence. One of the great promises of artificial intelligence and machine learning is that people can combine their skills more seamlessly with both machines and other people, often regardless of time and place. Work can also be broken up more flexibly. Thus, work is no longer necessarily tied to a specific place or at a certain time. However, we Finns are very concerned about certain occupational groups and the preservation of their jobs, because we see that such developments are unfortunately often also leading to high unemployment rates and insecurity about livelihoods. Thus we see that these major changes in society must not be carried out out out out of control. This also challenges the basic principles of the current education system. It is becoming more and more difficult to anticipate what skills are in demand and how many experts are to be trained in different professions, and just as the report points out, fewer and fewer degrees provide the prerequisites for relevant work throughout life. As a result, we must invest more in lifelong learning in the future. Education is also the most important solution to preventing the exclusion of young people. Mr President! Finally, a few words about future work in Parliament. The links between sustainable development and future work must be further strengthened. Overall, the work has been praised by a large number of decision-makers and various professional groups. The future work is long-term and should be continued, because that is the only way we can be involved in the continuation of development and in the forefront of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u33	The Green Parliamentary Group, Mrs Parviainen Olli-Son, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u34	Mr President! Although structural changes in work are a reality and technological change is strong, the work itself is not disappearing anywhere. Robots don't basically take the job, they change it. Although a significant proportion of Finns still work in traditional full-time jobs, the uncertainty of working life and livelihood for many, especially younger generations, is new normal. Working life is no longer one track from education to work and retirement, but more and more careers appear as a network of crossing paths where opportunities and conditions live and change in time. In addition to regular secular work, there are many forms of work and livelihood. That is why the division of people into, for example, the unemployed, entrepreneurs and employees is no longer today, let alone the future. The transition from one situation to another needs to be better taken into account. For example, platform services placed at the heart of the foresight report can offer a lot of opportunities for work, inclusion and livelihood. On the other hand, with insufficient regulation they can also increase inequalities not only here in Finland but globally. Legislation must be new enabling and supportive of individuals. The Committee on the Future called for the report to take better account of the UN Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030 objectives such as ecologically sustainable development, promotion of equality and inclusion. This has been done, thank you. The foresight report also states quite frankly that ecologically unsustainable work should not be supported. This is a good direction, which should also be taken as a starting point for Finland's business support policy. The report also recalls the human and social sustainability requirements of the transformation of work, the need to enable everyone to be involved and to secure a livelihood for everyone. However, unemployment, for example, has mainly been punished in recent years. The solutions presented in the report are largely left to future governments. These changes require a long-term decision-making process. Why don't we start now? Mr President! Finland needs a coherent, gradual reform of social security as a whole. We need labour law, income security and the reform of tax and competition law for the entire income cycle, not to mention the reform of family leave. For example, there are many social problems in the initial economy that we need to solve so that we do not, for example, increase pensioner poverty even further in the future. For those working on platforms, a stronger legal status, pension and unemployment security must be ensured. One important solution is basic income. It will provide better protection in the midst of changes and will also contribute to the creation of new work. Education and knowledge are also key. The role of lifelong learning is emphasised — learning to learn is emphasised. As part of this work, learning and re-training must continue to be facilitated. Nor should individuals be punished if their choices do not go far into the future. This period, however, has seen a cut of almost EUR 1 billion in education and training, and it feels like it. For example, universities have now been given a new mandate to promote lifelong learning without adequate funding. Mr President! More and more people also get their bread by producing creative contents. An increasing part of the investment is also directed towards intangible capital. The share of creative industries in Finland's gross domestic product is already higher than, for example, the electronics industry, paper industry or restaurant and accommodation activities. The business of the largest and fastest growing companies in the world is not just technology or iron, but content. Promoting a favourable environment for creative industries must be the goal of the Finnish Presidency of the European Union. And then, Mr President, the report is worthy in many respects, but in some places it is highly optimistic about technology and is naive about digitalisation. For example, the report outlines how health problems can be prevented in advance by "mechanising the information produced by social media on the number of individual social relationships, the doctor's data on body mass index and family health history, income register data on livelihoods and trade data on food purchases". Critical reflection shines with its absence. If we go down this path of technological belief, then we will add genetic data, spatial data, an evaluation of the content of the Internet and social media networks, so that we have dystopia in our hands, to which even famous writers like Orwell or Huxley will pale. In China, for example, people are already being scored on the basis of social eligibility. I don't think that's what we want in Finland. The fact that we are a growing amount of data that can be profiled in endless detail by combining us does not mean that it should be done. On the contrary, we must keep the level of individual data protection high, regulate platform services supranationally and also ethically, and ensure that algorithms, for example, do not start to control us. So not every technological opportunity should be embraced directly. And finally, Mr President, technological change can also provide solutions to the great existential issues of our time, such as the fight against climate change. So far, however, technological change has only led to an increase in our emissions. Politics and legislation should be made human beings and nature, not technology first.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u35	Next, the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group, Mr Kontula, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u36	Mr President! The first part of the Government’s report on the future was once a positive surprise. It well illustrated trends in the change in working life, such as the empowerment of services, the reduction in average wage jobs and the increase in the number of self-employed. It also well anticipates technological development, the expansion of the platform economy and new learning needs. In connection with the parliamentary debate in the report, the Left Alliance stated that, in the event of job uncertainty, attention should be paid to giving people the basis they need for continuity and for life management elsewhere. “We have to build education, taxation, social security and service systems all the way to the principles of universalism, lower Mr President! After all this, the second part of the report was quite a slap. We had to make a road map on the situation picture. There wasn't even a compass. A light working group report has emerged proposing the creation of new working groups for the preparation of new reports. The second part of the report seems to be confident that artificial intelligence will come and take care of our thinking. Technological belief goes so far that the text ignores risks such as privacy — that is, the questions that decision-makers should be deliberating about at the moment. Right now, we can't afford this. Creating a society that is ecologically sustainable also requires determined direction of change in work in the same direction. When work is separated from the site, CO2 emissions from commuting can be reduced by increasing telework. When consumption culture has become a problem, it must be possible to turn wage increases into shorter working hours. When working patterns and occupational structure change, climate change protection is also needed in the labour market: more flexible social protection and broad educational opportunities. Perhaps the strongest part of the report is related to the requirement for lifelong learning. Even though the proposals in this section are not new, at least there are some specific initiatives, such as the proposal for a personal education budget. Mr President! However, it is time to re-think education and learning. When educational content and parts of education are almost unlimited online, they are no longer a scarce resource. In this way, public investment should focus on people knowing how to use these opportunities. In addition to caring for the excellent level of early childhood education and basic education, this could mean subjective right to study guidance, functional communication connections throughout the country and more study facilities in connection with libraries. Much more needs to be done. The most sustainable solution to social security would be a basic income-based model in which working does not drive anyone into a bureaucratic trap. In the meantime, the social security and legal status of micro-entrepreneurs should be strengthened in particular by, for example, combined insurance for unemployment benefit, the possibility of a binding advance decision on unemployment benefit and the guarantee of collective right of association for self-employed workers. The status of employees would be strengthened by the right of collective action and the statutory minimum wage. Changes are also needed to facilitate access to the Finnish labour market even with less language skills. These could include the definition of language skills requirements from the task, the multilingual availability of advice on working life and rules of play, and the lack of prejudice on the part of employers and public authorities. We do not yet know whether technological developments will lead to less gainful employment. If so, good, but if the machines do the work, the machines also pay the taxes. This means a significant shift from labour taxation to capital taxation. Mr President! The future is never known. The resulting uncertainty is a great paradox in politics, but there are problems with a change in working life whose solutions are incomplete. So there is no reason to be content with writing the reports.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u37	Ärade talman, Mr President! The transformation of work and the growing importance of artificial intelligence are clear megatrends of modern society. This is why the debate on the future of work is important. We must be able to see what decisions are needed in our society to ensure positive and human-driven development. At the same time, however, we must be able to see and exploit the new opportunities brought about by technological developments. In terms of football terms, we have to take control of the ball and try to control the game. It is important to play well and according to the rules. It is therefore good that the government, in this second part of the foresight report, is focusing on work that is indeed in the process of transformation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u38	Madam President! Over the past ten years, working life has been in a state of profound change. This can be seen both in work, in the way of working and in the sense of work. The report presents five key visions for the future of work and the related solutions. There are clear development needs in relation to, among other things, social security reform and digitalisation. However, a more concrete approach would have been needed in many areas. For example, the impact of environmental and climate issues on work and working life requires practical reflection. The KD Parliamentary Group has strongly highlighted the need to reform the social security system and has developed its own supportive basic security model. The system should improve the profitability of working while providing security in the unexpected changes in life. Tax legislation and corresponding Finnish labour law also require comprehensive development and reform. We need a more flexible and modern labour market. Legislative reforms have not kept pace with changing working life. Our group considers it important that Finland is an active actor in developing the exploitation and digitalisation of artificial intelligence. At the same time, however, ethical and responsibility issues related to artificial intelligence and digitalisation need to be identified and resolved, which would have been important in the report as well. The assessment of the health effects of digitalisation will also need more attention in the future. Mr President! Education provides the basis for Finland’s success. Skilled workers are invaluable to the competitiveness of our country. The change in working life also poses a strong challenge to the education system, which must be able to meet the needs of working life. Low-threshold modular supplementary and conversion training, continuous learning training must be developed in such a way that it is geared significantly more systematically to support the population as a whole in terms of changes in work. Basic skills and so-called meta skills, such as cooperation, thinking and life management skills, should be strengthened, but foresight is also needed. For example, there is a major shortage of coders in Finland at the moment, because the number of people trained does not match the demand at all. The continuous development of the education system requires sufficient financial investment. Unfortunately, the cuts made during this regime have been a step in the wrong direction. Changes in the nature of work, such as the diversity of employment relationships and the increase in time and place-bound work, bring new opportunities from both the community and the individual perspective. At the same time, they bring challenges to people's ability to cope and require employees to have good self-management skills, among other things. A change in the working culture requires investments in the well-being of employees. The meaningfulness and relevance of work are increasingly important factors. Work has many other values and contents than mere livelihood. The KD Parliamentary Group has on several occasions expressed concern about the decline in birth rates. Studying and working life, livelihood and employment are key factors influencing the creation of a family. The financial situation of families and the reconciliation of studies, work and family are challenging for many. In the development of working life, solutions that facilitate and support the integration of parenthood, study and work must be found at the earliest opportunity. This is in the interests of society as a whole. Mr President! A strong climate of change must not blindly abandon all old practices and structures. Change should not be an end in itself, but an opportunity to do things better. While digitalisation and teleworking, for example, are increasing, we must remember the importance of genuine encounters and the support of the working community for well-being in the future. Despite good visions and assessments, we cannot be sure of the course of development. Indeed, a successful change in government and reform at the heart of it is a sufficient skill for valuable conservation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u39	All the group speeches have now been heard. I now give the ministers the floor, Prime Minister Sipilä 3 minutes and Minister Lindström 3 minutes. Then, if necessary, a debate, but then we will also go to the list of speakers. — Here you go, Prime Minister Sipilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u40	Mr President! Thank you for the good, constructive group speeches. Just a few remarks. First of all, this need for continuous learning reform: We need to get out of this kind of training solely leading to a degree from the thinking of module-based, so that on top of the degree should also be able to apply for more, and in this direction we are already going. We have the need for a million Finns to retrain in the next 10 years. Better use of unemployment periods in updating data should also be taken into account. Then on the opportunities of climate change: This first part of the report already covered the major trends behind this transformation and how the work in general changes with them. Climate change is a good example of how such a major global challenge also brings job opportunities and technological opportunities. The fact that work cannot define human dignity — quite the same idea — was raised in several speeches. This problem is certainly one that deserves to be addressed in the committee's consultation. The initial economy was referred to in several speeches, and the traffic cycle is one good example of how legislation can form the platform economy, which then brings new activity. The reform of social security was referred to here in several speeches. We have now tried through this Action project to prepare this in a new way on a civil servant basis, in such a way that this sort of perhaps the biggest single reform of next season would have been prepared as far as possible for the next government negotiations and also for the parties for the election debates. Then this debate on this privacy policy, how to reconcile it with the possibilities of digitalisation and artificial intelligence: This is an extremely important debate. Data protection is becoming increasingly important, and citizens' knowledge and knowledge on this issue must be increased, and we as legislators must, of course, take this into account while recognising the potential of technologies. And here we can and will be working together at European Union and Nordic level at the moment. There must also be a debate on the ethical issues of artificial intelligence more widely than on data protection. The Prime Minister’s Office is currently working on a study entitled ‘Ethics for the regulation and use of robotics and artificial intelligence and social acceptability’, which is being carried out by the VTT, the University of Jyväskylä and the University of Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u41	Next up, Minister Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u42	Mr President! Thank you for the conversation. It's important. If I start with this break-in of work, which is what this headline actually is, and robotization and digitalisation, for which good speeches have been made here: I confess that about ten years ago I myself thought that robots would come and take our jobs, because I looked at it from my point of view and saw how much work and jobs were lost as technology developed and, in a way, some automation was replaced in those boring phases. But I have had to change my opinion in that part of this has also brought new opportunities, and I think it is the right approach for us Finns, that either we are part of this change or we are in the process of taking the current, and we should be at the forefront of that change. But, Mr President, I will take this few minutes, which I have left, to this increase in the employment rate, of which there is one paragraph on page 15, and to the fact that I think it is absolutely central to the next governments. There is talk here that if this target were set at 78%, the increase in the number of people employed would be around 200,000 today. That's enough salvo. It will be even more challenging in the future because, in the case of this structural unemployment, we are faced with the fact that these means of employment policy, which we have at our disposal, are not necessarily enough and are not enough. All the time outside of employment, we have fewer and less skilled people capable of working and potential recruits with appropriate experience and training. Therefore, during the next term of government, attention must be paid to improving the skills of adults and to groups in general where employment is still low and where potential exists. These groups include people with disabilities, ethnic minorities, immigrants, young people and older adults, women of the age of starting a family, those who do not want to move, those who have been unemployed for a very long time and those who are being released. Now there are a few groups with a lot of potential. We also have a problem with the fact that the availability of labour in 2015 was quite alarming in the country but at the moment, 2018, at this stage they are catastrophic. We have an enormous amount of work to do to ensure that jobs and the perpetrators meet. We have taken action and tried to respond to this, but this is still a great challenge, and so I have mainly thrown the challenge into that small and medium-sized sector where jobs are created, what could be done, for example, to develop apprenticeships, to get work-oriented training and to have an apprenticeship market in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u43	Thank you to the ministers, and then we will go to the debate for at least a moment. — Chairman of the Committee, represented by Mr Wallin, Stefan.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u44	Mr President! Of course, raising the employment rate will be a very important issue in the coming years, and the reasons are well known. As part of this effort, we must also, as it were, be better able to tailor jobs to people in the labour market, job descriptions that fit in with their life situation, which may vary quite a bit. Not everyone is able or able to do full-time work, and if you look at people with disabilities who still have a desire to enter the labour market, stay in the labour market, then there must be certain models for them. We therefore need this kind of intermediate labour market model for these people who specifically want to be in the labour market. It must be remembered that every effort must always be worthwhile. It is always worth working, working hard, working overtime, because that work is what keeps this country going,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u45	The next item is the vice-chairman of the committee, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u46	Mr President! There are a lot of good things in this report, but in the Committee on the Future, we need to focus on at least four themes: Firstly, the concrete opportunities for technological development and sustainable development to create new jobs. Secondly, although the significance of the work is mentioned in the report, for example, the possibilities for the employment of disabled people have been ignored in a few lines. Thirdly, we need to focus on welfare themes in the work of the future. Fourthly, I am concerned about the vision for the future mentioned by Mrs Parviainen too, how artificial intelligence is thought to be used, for example, in the allocation of services. This vision, however, lacks the perspective of data protection and ethics, and I find it sad to read it. That's not my vision for the future, at least. Should we start talking, instead of talking about artificial intelligence, about support intelligence, so that we can remember that technology is for man and not against man?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u47	Madam President! Indeed, I would also like to point out one aspect of this debate on future policy, that the role of the creative sectors is increasing. Content throughout the world has already grown explosively with streaming, music, movies, games, or other entertainment. We also made a report on this last period to the Committee on the Future. The importance of creative industries is also growing in Finland. Their gross domestic product share of employed persons is three and a half per cent, i.e. larger than that of the electronics industry, paper industry or restaurant and accommodation. We must therefore defend fair copyright law. There is also a need to develop economic activity in the creative sectors and to develop adequate pension provision and job security for artists. That is why the Finnish Government must commit itself to solving the so-called value gap problem together with other EU countries. Large social media and media giants also have to pay compensation to content producers and the private copying fee has to be corrected. Broadcasting should also promote the use of domestic content. All of this is also linked to this continuous learning,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u48	Mr President! From the outset, it must be said that it is nice sometimes in this Chamber not to argue. Everyone is more or less in agreement with the future, and things will be different in the future, but everyone’s speeches flashed about the same reforms that will come. In fact, a few governments have just reacted today. There was talk of a code deficit, and 10 million has been put into it, and 4 million has now been added to the AI, so there is always response. My question actually relates to what Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen mentioned: the radical technologies tool. So this is a tool which, a few years before a technological breakthrough, is able to see what kind of reform is coming from there, so we would then have to legislate on it, whether to remove it or to make it possible. Now the problem in Finland is that, for example, eight of the ten largest start-up companies in the world are, in principle, illegal in Finland, so we have something to improve on, and I hope that the ministers will take this tool seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u49	Mr President! The central parliamentary group started this round by taking a position on the current labour market situation. It has to be said that the weakening of the protection of dismissal promoted by the government is an old-world medicine driven by the old world’s means or dictates. Mr President! There is a great contradiction between this method and this report on the future. After all, this does not at all stem from the fact that future changes in working life are being prepared by reducing working conditions, for example by reducing the protection against dismissal. The working life of the future needs better integration of social security and work. That is why social security reform is needed. In order to achieve a better balance between work and family, a reform of family leave is needed. And since continuous learning is the basis of everything, secondary education must be ensured for everyone. If some of this energy, which is now being used for this current situation, were to be used by the government for these reforms, then I think we would have come a long way. But, Mr President, in this context I ask the Prime Minister when you have met the social partners: Is there light at the end of the tunnel? Has the government considered a new position?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u50	Mr President! It is easy to agree with that speaker in the sense that I too would like to hear what the situation is. However, it is important for our economy. But I would actually have drawn attention to something that was a little less important, fortunately even the Prime Minister raised this issue of privacy. These group speeches were very strong on the subject of how great the possibility of robotics and the platform economy is, and that is true. But this information security and precisely people's skills on that side: more and more machines can, machines can help people to access networks, homes and cause problems. And, of course, if you look at the internal security of the country, there are these various cyber threats. I would have asked the Prime Minister what type of thought was being given to these matters. At least they're not very good at this. We are talking about knowledge, but information security is a significant part of that competence in this machine intelligence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u51	Madam President! The future is coming, and the change in work is a sure thing. It is also certain that, in the future and when work turns out to be different, training is needed at all times. You can't overemphasize that. This means that the quality and content of education must be strictly adhered to. It is the only chance for this small nation to keep up with the change in work. I am very pleased that Minister Lindström has highlighted the role of the part of the part-time and disabled in this society and in the labour market of the future. I would like to say that the work of people who, for various reasons, are part-time or disabled must also be meaningful. They want to be an important part of the rotating wheels of this society. Let me give you one example: many people with disabilities experience, in part, a different form of forced labour that they are doing, but a very large number of them would like and could do much more meaningful work. I wish you'd take a stand on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u52	Madam President! That is where I drew attention to Minister Lindström's concern about robotics and the result of robotics. It is a fact, and it is one of our competitive advantages. But what I have noticed in that industrial change and change in working life is that the number of service companies has increased and there has been much more. When we know how many different power stations Finns do abroad, pulped and others, we need a great deal of these servicemen to send there, and then I would like to pay attention to the training that not only vocational training is enough, but also linguistic training, that they will be able to do well there in the world, which will then guarantee additional exports to us when we take good care of these facilities that we have built and ensure that they are of high quality. That's our competitive edge.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u53	Mr President! “Every human being and every life is worth This statement by Veikko Vennamo is also the basis of blue values — human dignity is equal and indivisible. If you think about Finland, the work has always brought Finnish people meaning in life and also self-respect. This is hardly changing, and it hardly needs to change. But what has changed, of course, is that, since the early 2000s, more than 100,000 jobs have left the industry. Unfortunately, there is no longer a world where you go straight from school to work in a factory, 40 years there and then you retire happily. Happiness may be found, but probably not in this way. Social security needs to be reformed, and the blue solution is precisely reverse income tax, where social protection is reduced as wage income rises. This would always make work worthwhile in low-paid employment, which has been a challenge, especially here in the capital region. That's basic security for low pay. This should be combined with housing allowance, daily allowance, labour market support and part of income support. We believe that basic income free of charge is likely to be:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u54	Mr President! The transformation of work in relation to robotization, artificial intelligence and so on, of course, produces a lot of assessments for us, as was the case in the first part of the report, and the conclusions are also partly contradictory, but one conclusion has always been cross-cutting in everything, i.e. this emphasis and emphasis on the role of knowledge and education. That is why, as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has pointed out very well, the future programme of the SDP for 2030 has made the Knowledge Path 2030 a key entity, which has highlighted the issues that arise in this report too — continuous learning as a guarantee of future change — but it has already started to prepare for the extensive reform that we are going to need here. Mr President! However, in this debate and in the debate, I would like to raise one recommendation for action here, which is Recommendation 7 for action, which states that the focus on education would be increasingly shifted to theoretical basic capacities and, on the other hand, the need for skills would no longer be anticipated as much as is currently the case. The question here is: how does this view the government's current situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u55	Congressman Väyrynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u56	In the debate on the future, the economic impact of new technologies is often far too dominant. This lack can also be seen in the Government's report on the future of the transformation of work. In his introduction to the report, Prime Minister Juha Sipilä says: “Societal debate is needed on the different and changing means of work in addition to economic values,in order to promote conflicting objectives. “ Is this to be read in such a way that economic values are of absolute value and that instruments that conflict with them should not be promoted? Perhaps the Prime Minister can answer this question. We must remember that, overall, technology must only be an instrument for increasing people's well-being and developing society. Even economic values are just instruments. On the other hand, work can be seen to have more important values than the economy, both for man and for society, and may even have an intrinsic value. In the debate on the impact of new technologies, digitalisation, machine intelligence and spatial information are often treated as tools only to increase economic efficiency. At its worst, society can be developed in such a way that it can best exploit the opportunities offered by new technologies. This seems to have been the case with the Ministry of Transport and Communications, where well-functioning systems based on sustainable values are being adapted to meet the requirements of new technologies. This report provides an excellent opportunity for the Committee on the Future and Parliament to discuss the impact of new technologies and the policy values and objectives that new technologies can and must promote.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u57	Now for those of you who have not yet received the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u58	Mr President! A number of interlude calls questioned the amicability of the group statement I made in the centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u61	Mr President! When the government started working about three and a half years ago, a target of 72% was set, and now we are very close to it: 71.7 percent is probably the latest figure. But what worries me is that the rise has slowed down, and also that the unemployment rate is still on top 7. This means that we have structural unemployment and that we also need new means of promoting employment. I would like to raise two of them: One is studying with unemployment benefit, and the other is a face-to-face encounter with the unemployed. Studying with unemployment benefit, for example, for six months has been on the government's agenda at some point, and I would now like to know at what stage the bill comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u62	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen. — So let us look at group speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u63	Mr President! I would like to ask the ministers whether you have read the report by the Committee on the Future of Europe on Radical Technologies. In fact, the report presents new work and new opportunities for Finland, and I think that it would have been excellent in this context too. We now have a report in the Committee on the Future on the ethical issues of technology. I hope that the ministers will have time to read both these reports because, in the context of technological development, ethical debate is so important, and I feel that there is far too little ethical debate at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u64	President! The transformation of work is a multidimensional phenomenon. For all, work is not necessarily as central to life as it has been for generations of the past. The attitude toward work is changing. But one aspect of this is that, if the work is too differentiated — and this has been given due attention in the report — it threatens social cohesion and even social security, the fact that work is differentiated and, by modern technology, the nation is divided into winners and losers. The bottom line of our culture is the idea of Martin Luther that all honest work is to build a common good, a bonum communine, and one another to serve one another.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u65	Madam President! As has been heard in this Chamber today, the working environment is changing and, of course, the work is falling apart and the relationship between the employee and the entrepreneur changes, and we need a reform of this kind of income cycle. It can also be called a social security cycle, where labour law, income security and competition law are reformed so as to create proactive social security for all workers at work. We therefore need a digital interface that collects the livelihood of one individual from different sources, and the interface also automatically collects taxes and social security obligations. So whether you are unemployed, employed or self-employed, this digital interface will handle your obligations. This would be a uniform system for all. This would guarantee you a minimum net income on a monthly basis, so that if you get some kind of job or business experience — even as an entrepreneur, you may have a job, a break —
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u66	Madam President! It is interesting to discuss the future, but some of the future is, of course, in the dark. I think that for all of us decision-makers, as a good guide for this debate, Yuval Noah Harari, a popular writer in Finland too, says that if someone tells us that the future resembles science fiction, he is probably wrong, but if someone tells you that the future is like today, he is definitely wrong. This is probably a good starting point when we consider different scenarios. I was glad, Mr Sipilä, that you mentioned that you have a study going on in relation to robotisation, not only from commercial or technological points of view, but also from ethical considerations and the like. I would like to ask you for more information on when we will have this interesting report to see, and at the same time I would like to thank you for taking a firm stand on behalf of privacy and data protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u67	Mr President! A number of speakers have rightly identified the need for social security reform. What may not have been understood is that not everything in social security is possible. Math's coming up. We cannot make a social security system with a reasonable level of social security, a control-based award system and the dismantling of employment incentives. Two of these are possible, but not three. You have to choose. No one in the world has managed to implement these three at the same time. This is the lock of thought which, for the time being, prevents us from moving forward in such a way that we can obtain effective income security. The current system will drop out of these the dismantling of incentive traps for employment. The basic income system, on the other hand, would drop control and causality.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u68	And two more group speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u69	Mr President! This concept of work, to all its extent, contains a great many other components. There is talk here of well-being at work, but also of how to encourage work through taxation. The future of taxation in the next parliamentary term — I am speaking in plural — is an extremely important issue, the way in which we can shift the focus from labour taxation to consumption and environmentally harmful products and so on. This is a key issue, and I ask: what is perhaps the Prime Minister's vision of fiscal policy, what direction can be taken and what is the timescale for all work to be profitable and encourage hard work?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u70	Madam President! The report has taken into account some of the issues raised in the report by the Committee on the Future, including sustainable development and welfare indicators. Thank you for that. Work is becoming increasingly detached from time and place. When connections work, you can work with computers anywhere, and even with technology, meetings can be held where they are. Saving time, reducing emissions. Even for families, it's good not to have time to travel. At the same time, the rhythms of human life are becoming more and more individualized. Even now we have largely lost a community holiday, a day of rest, as more work has been carried over to Sunday. It is more difficult to find time off from joint work, and I would like to ask, Minister, what do you think of this development: how to change direction and maintain a valuable time together in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u71	Let's just go back to this debut for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u72	Madam President! Mr Wallinheimo gave a good speech, but nevertheless, like Mr Viljanen and Mr Lindtma, I thought of commenting on the current labour market situation with a few points. Firstly, the strikes that are now under way, the political strikes, and the threatened strikes are totally disproportionate to what the government is proposing to Parliament. Children and the elderly in institutions are made to suffer, businesses, their customers and so on. Secondly, according to public information, the social partners have discussed a proposal to the government to resolve the dispute and, nevertheless, to promote the employment of small businesses. Thirdly, I firmly believe that if we put forward such a realistic proposal that will improve employment, the government will be prepared to seriously consider discussions on that basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u73	Madam President! I am not going to focus on the current labour market situation, but I am grateful that the government has looked further into the future. I think this report on the future is a good concept and it is also worth continuing in the coming parliamentary term. I agree with the report on the polarisation of the labour market. In fact, if we are looking at Western industrialised countries at the moment, we can already see that with globalisation and technological developments, the labour market has been polarised so that we have highly skilled expert tasks with a global, international labour market and then we have low-paid jobs. The big question is what will be the future of the middle class: where will we find medium-paid jobs in the future? That is also what I spoke about during the last parliamentary term when I was a minister very much. The future value of people's labour market will be determined through knowledge. It is a good thing that we are talking about the need to retrain people, but the key question is how we update the skills of people in work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u74	Madam President! Today's working life is far from full-time and permanent work. More and more people are working in different parts of their working lives, and they also have to change jobs and sectors, and education is therefore very important in its role and meaning. But I cannot fail to take a stand on that matter of leisure brought by Mr Tanus, because, when I was in the PAM's delegation, every time there was a wish that there would be more holidays, that there would be more summer holidays and that there would be more time for the family and those loved ones, despite the fact that, for example, there is a great deal of involuntary part-time work in the service sectors, which has led to a considerable increase in the number of working poor people. I would have asked you, Prime Minister: how do you address the problem of working poor people, the economic situation of self-employed people? How does this account safeguard their livelihood and future? That is to say, robotisation does not solve everything, but it is a fundamental problem that our own work should be able to get along with each one of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u75	Madam President! Our dependency ratio will deteriorate by 20% over the next decades. This sets us very big goals, challenges in the way in which we solve the problem of working. The initial economy, the doing of temporary work, the block chains will change it, and in fact the debate that is now taking place on the doing of work and dismissal is linked to this inevitable future. How, then, will taxation be developed in the future to reflect changing ways of working? The platform economy in particular will significantly change the logic of labour value chains. Internationalisation will change the logic of merit. How do we finance the role of society in the work of social insurance? How can we do this as fairly as possible, and how can we respond to this with real-time results registers in the future social security system?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u76	Honorable Speaker! First of all, it must be said that the fact that this report on the future has been made in two parts is an absolutely brilliant innovation in itself and adds to the dialogue that has been sought here. It must also be noted that the forms of work — all the ways in which work is done, where work is done and when work is being done — are changing, and the phenomena of work that are becoming stronger, we must look for. For example, in a job where work is done on a platform basis, you have to look for these ways in which social benefits and other income can then be automatically netted in such a way that people’s income will never be cut off or the payment of social benefits will not be cut off. I would like to raise from here the proposal for action 17, which is a ‘multifaceted ability to work’ approach to the development of work. There, the key issue is that competence and motivation are a key element of working ability. This motivation for both students and workers is, in my view, at the very heart of this and should be strengthened considerably.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u77	Three more replies, representatives Tolppanen, Myllykoski and Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u78	Mr President! Yes, I must say that this report, which was now heard, was good and gave good guidelines for the future. I'm just wondering if you're not already introducing these things. Why wait for good things to come? Are you expecting another government to do that? It would be good if this government also sought to do so. Prime Minister, you said that work does not bring dignity. I agree with you, not that, but unemployment, lack of money, poverty or the dismissal of an individual in front of everyone takes human dignity. This is just how it's gonna happen. When there was talk and Mrs Zyskowicz talked about these strike issues, perhaps this strike now will help to appreciate these low-paid people who work and are there to help the elderly and the children. Two days will be all right, but the appreciation of these people needs to be highlighted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u79	Madam President! Mr Urpilainen raised an issue on which I too would like to ask the Prime Minister, who has good business expertise. How should we react in the future to what is the framework for knowledge and learning and further training at work? We should obviously give employers some sort of obligation to maintain the skills and prerequisites of the surrounding technological development, even in those companies where no new technology has been introduced, because then their Minister Lindström's skills in employment and conversion training would be made available in the current employment relationship before those changes take place as a result of the termination of the employment relationship. How does the Prime Minister see that we could develop the training of existing staff to prepare them for new skills?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u80	Let us indeed take Mr Mattila again, and then the ministers will reply, and the Prime Minister will be able to answer this topical question separately, which has arisen here. Then we go to the list of speakers for a while, and the first person there is Ihalainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u81	Madam President! The report shows that demographic change in Finland requires an increase in the retirement age and thus the ability to work longer. At the moment, my high school colleagues are still retiring at 60, but for me, for example, they are 67 years old. My question is this: did this future study of yours reveal how much longer we need to raise the retirement age? My second question relates to that. When the upper secondary school environment is quite exhausting and raw as a working environment, did you think in the group that it might be possible to change the content of the work so that the secondary school teacher would not necessarily do those last years in that particular secondary school environment, but would be someone else's job description?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u82	Then the ministers answer both to the current situation, which has become questions, and to this report itself. A total of four minutes for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u83	Mr President! I'll start with these briefings. Firstly, on this question of the importance of work: For example, representatives of Wallin, Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Halmemenpää referred to this. Part-time workers are an example of those who become terribly poorly employed in us. In this reform of social security, we could have a basic income or a base such as that and then a share of the salary corresponding to the ability to work and this whole would constitute total earnings. I have also discussed it a lot with the social partners, and this kind of thinking seems to be gaining ground now. It goes against the fact that you have to get along with your salary, but when it comes to part-time workable and part-time workable doing more than just doing the chores, then we have to accept this kind of thinking for the background of the next social reform. Representative Alatalo, creative industries can play a very significant role in this, and also as automation increases productivity in the future, the importance of creative industries is likely to increase. Then to this middle-class question raised by Mr Urpilainen: This is a large part of the break-in of work. A.I. was a good word, or was it an A.I.?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u86	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u87	Madam President! If it is mainly on this intermediate labour market model raised by Mrs Wallin: I would like to link it to the debate on the disabled and the partially capable, to which the Prime Minister also replied. In the budget debate, we made a decision on the work capacity programme and the report that Tuija Oivo and Raija Kuorettari are working together. It's coming in that side of November. It's a joint exercise between STM and TEM. It's a sort of message baton for the future and the future government. When Mr Tolppanen asked whether everything is going to be left to future governments, this government has already done things that have answers to the questions raised in this debate. This has raised the debate, among other things, on a common time — Mr Tanus, Mr Tolppanen, also referred to this. We have an overall reform of the Working Time Act in this house. And it responds in part to the new forms of work, brings more flexibility, creates more opportunities for a much more convenient link between working life and leisure. We've identified this. But through this convenient donkey bridge, we can get into this regulation, which is what we have been asking about here. It is really challenging to think about how we would make legislation that would make it possible, but still so that there are some bodies in which to act. It's pretty hard to see the future. Of course this kind of report brings at least some thoughts in the direction we are going. But this is a little bit like this running after you. In other words, we are trying to make legislation, such as the working time law, so that it makes things possible and does not prevent them, but it has already been discovered, for example, in the creative sectors, that we are facing quite a challenge when there comes a variety of new forms of work and we too will be told in the Ministry that this still did not meet those challenges. Work is changing at such a rate that legislation follows what it can. But the aim is for as many sectors as possible to be able to do things and not to be hindered by these laws and regulations. Representative Myllykoski, Representative Urpilainen, very good speeches on this updating of skills. Personally, I am extremely interested in what has happened here, when the last round of agreements brought about this three-day education right: how much it has actually been used. That is a small gesture in the right direction, but my understanding is that there is much, much to improve and there is room for improvement. That would be a good starting point for what Mr Urplainen also referred to, and then for apprenticeships and so on, in other words, even when working, we would be preparing for the fact that this work could not continue as it is, and we would bring more elements, such as what Mr Semi raised, namely language training or this type of training.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u88	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u89	Mr President! I am delighted with the tone and the familiarity with which this debate is taking place here today. The future reports, both the one and the report now under discussion, are, in my opinion, a very good description of the change in work and the factors affecting it. It contains 18 proposals or proposals for measures, which will allow for a deeper debate on the future of work and its relevance to workers. So the importance of work is a deeper matter than livelihood for people. A striking feature of this report on the future is that the future of working life will not be resolved by undermining employee protection, contract or contract security. So let's look to the future. When younger age groups enter the labour market less than one end retires accordingly, the working life will have to compete for skilled labour and its persistence in the workplace. Of course, the competition will be waged, but it will also be accompanied by quality of work, safety, knowledge, well-being at work and family-friendly workplaces. The rotation of paid employment, temporary work, entrepreneurship and platform work requires the development of skills and comprehensive unemployment and social security to enable people to take risks, to move from one job to another and not to unemployment. As the time and location of work is reduced, the safe occupational and regional mobility of workers must be supported. Work and how it is done are changing, and the bottlenecks in the labour force are above all in a lack of skills. Access to lifelong learning is central to the management of continuous change in working life. The SDP has thus drawn up a roadmap for lifelong learning, in which the importance of vocational adult education and training will be emphasised. We have considered a knowledgeaccount and voucher, but also that the first stepstobe taken in the run-up to the year are: The Employment Fund would be a more significant source of funding for the studies of the adult population. Everyone must therefore have the right to work and training in an inclusive way. A combination of work, livelihood, social security and taxation must be built in a whole new way in, or as a result of, fragmented working life. This will be one of the most important tasks of the next government: to understand this entity and make decisions. Due to the age structure and the fall in the birth rate, the growth of our working-age population plays an important part in the development of immigrants. There is therefore a great deal of work to be done to ensure that those who have already moved to this country find employment and receive training and work and become part of society. The structures of work change in many ways. In particular, different solutions for the platform economy will grow. Now they are dominated by global, big players. The solutions of the platform economy must also ensure that the status of employees improves, that tax revenues are also maintained in Finland. There must be international, EU and domestic rules on rights, social security, unemployment and pensions for those working in the platform economy. Finally, I would just like to say that raising the employment rate to or above 75% — when this report indicates that the target is 78% — requires 200,000 new jobs. It is a demanding task, but it is necessary, and then we must focus on the employment of the most vulnerable, on access to the labour market for part-time workers, on access to the labour market for persons with hidden unemployment, on access to the labour market for people with disabilities and on supporting the higher employment rate for immigrants — that is to say, the resources of active labour market policies far more. Thus, the policy of the next government to develop working life is the future turn of employees' contract security from being weakened to knowledge, managing change in work, well-being at work and valuing and understanding that it is possible for people to reconcile work and family life in everyday life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u90	Two hours have passed, so the debate and the proceedings are suspended at this stage. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u91	We shall now continue to discuss item 4 which has been suspended earlier in this sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u92	Mr President! The report on the future refers several times to the report on the future. The references suggest that the future dialogue between Parliament and the Government works, and this is also a unique international task and the core role of the future life process. The report clearly takes into account the issues raised in the report on the future. In particular, the reform of social, tax and working time legislation in order to bring together fragmented livelihoods and variable working conditions, and the development of the platform economy and platform work, and the reform of the education and skills system, have also received a great deal of attention there. These are clear top themes. The third is sustainable development, i.e. interfaces with the 2030 Agenda. This is where the impact of the Committee on the Future is likely to be greatest. In the first part of the report on the future, there was little talk of sustainable development. The second part of the Government’s foresight report aims to identify desirable futures, decision-making needs and societal issues related to work. These issues and their solutions are mainly to be considered and resolved by future governments. This report is part of long-term decision-making and preparation, in which the debate on the future of work and transition continues. The aim is that solutions to the phenomenon affecting society as a whole can be implemented over the long term over the parliamentary term. Mr President! The key findings of a two-part life for the future are summed up in the diversity of forms of work and employment, which requires changes in legislation and social security, for example. The time- and location-related nature of work is deteriorating, but the change is not as strong or at the same pace in all sectors. Reconciling work and private life is a big social issue. It affects a large number of Finns in different ways. Its better take-over can also increase the sense of work. There is an emphasis on continuous learning, and we need a quality lifelong learning model covering the entire population in Finland, as has been pointed out many times before when we discussed this. The flexibility of the labour market and working life will increase and the questions of livelihood will be highlighted. The transformation of work is also a global issue, at the heart of which is migration and work-based immigration. In addition to economic values, social debate is needed on the different and changing values of work, so that we do not promote conflicting objectives. Of course, it is the decision-makers who are responsible for setting up this debate. The change in work creates tensions in the organisation of work, the content of work, the required skills, livelihood and the importance of work. These tensions can be resolved by discussing together what kind of future work we want to pursue and by taking long-term policy action to achieve them. Future life is one of the openings for Finnish decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u93	Mr President! This report presents proposals for action for five key future visions of work, which have emerged from studies, expert views and open debates. I think that the proposals for measures are quite well presented. It is clear that a long-term policy is needed in the transition to work. Sustainable development must guide long-term decision-making. In addition to sustainable development, the establishment of long-term visions and the definition of common values and objectives has already brought in a number of other useful structures and practices. As a result of technological developments, jobs and whole occupations will disappear and new ones will emerge. The sources of income become more diverse and fragmented. Coordination of low-wage work, social security and taxation is a challenge that needs to be realistically prepared in Finland. Society is changing. The average income of full-time work decreases as globalisation and digitalisation progresses. The transformation of work must be managed wisely in the long term in order to achieve a better working life and well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u94	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u95	Madam President! With this Government proposal, the Finnish Transport Safety Agency, the Finnish Transport Safety Agency and certain activities of the Finnish Transport Agency would be transformed into a new agency, the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency. The remaining tasks and functions of the Finnish Transport Agency would be entrusted to the Fairway Office. The committee's examination of this government proposal led to the fact that the Social Democrats, the People's Party and the Left Alliance had to submit this objection, which contained a wreck. And since the referral debate and the first reading had a rather ghastly debate on this subject by the way, I now thought I should refrain from reading this argument. Reasons for this objection: ‘We are sure that the Committee on Transport and Communications will not tell us how the Instead, we can demand that the Ministry of Transport and Communications be able to explain them carefully in the form of a government proposal. We share the regret of many commentators that the replacement model is losing in particular the expertise of the Finnish Transport Agency, which will be needed as a customer of the new traffic control company that has already been decided on in future tasks.” ‘The role of the different actors in the The Ministry’s various agencies monitor each other and negotiate with local actors in the field of transport system planning and land use at the same time. The overall responsibility for operations and development is quickly lost in this model. The same peculiar situation exists between the traffic control company that has already been decided and its only client so far, the Fairway Agency, both of which are controlled by the Ministry of Transport and Communications.’ ‘We take the view that the State administration is more efficient, regrettably this proposal does not make any difference as to how this should The majority of the revenue side is calculated on the basis of the traffic management company set up by a separate proposal, the savings made by the Agency itself or the costs incurred by the Agency itself are not comprehensively estimated.’ “The situation was not facilitated by a complementary proposal by the Government By means of a legal amendment, the tasks of the provinces were transferred to the Ely Centres without any resources being allocated to the Ely Centres to carry out the tasks. The tasks of the provinces are to be reinstated, while the timetable for the regional reform will be resolved in Parliament at the same time.” “We consider this multi-plicity of legislation to be a dangerous way of regulating the tasks of We also highlight the committee's criticism in its report of the weak level of legislative drafting in the proposal and demand better preparation from the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The last time the Ministry's legislative drafting level has been addressed by the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee in its Opinion 2/2018. ‘Forthereasons described above,the proposalisrecastandsubscribereasonsandimpactassessmentsinac-cordance withthereform oftheregionalreform.’ In view of the above, I propose that the Government’s proposal 61/2018 includes from 1 to 89. The draft law and the Government's proposal 104/2018 include from 1 to 60. the draft law is rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u96	Madam President! At the outset, I would like to start by saying that I am in favour of the representative. A rendition motion made by the trout. Of course, my history in Parliament is only about the age of school — seven years — but I must say that this has been full of surprises. How can the Ministry bring a package of laws that the Ministry of Justice tells us in a committee hearing that we have not been able to familiarise ourselves with these changes? It would certainly have been quite reasonable for us in committee to propose amendments to the articles, but if the officials who are competent in the law of the ministry did not have the opportunity to do so, how could the committee be able to do so? I agree with the criticisms of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, presented by Mr Taimela here just now, that this cannot be the case. Neither the committee’s officials nor the committee’s representatives can be pushed into the burden and the knowledge of the letter of the law so that we can improve badly prepared legislative proposals. That is why it is very good that there is only one motion. I very much hope that Parliament will be able to reconsider how this law is being exported. It is a very good thing that this rejection motion raised this very important point: it would be reasonable to take this proposal forward in line with the timetable for the regional reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u97	Mr President! Because, as I pointed out in my first speech, for reasons that are understandable in a sense, the debate on referrals was a rucksack and last week the first reading was also a rather ghastly one, but today there are not so many speeches from colleagues on this subject. I would like to point out once again that when we made the draft report in the Committee on Transport and Communications on this agency reform, the last paragraph, paragraph 9, is the following: “The committee pays attention to the quality of Although the original government proposal is wide-ranging, there is still much left to be corrected in the supplementary government proposal. This is reflected in the list of legal and technical corrections contained in the detailed explanatory memorandum. The committee stresses the central importance of the review of the law by the Ministry of Justice and considers that the non-use of the law can only be considered in exceptional cases and for specific reasons. The committee draws the attention of the Director General of the Ministry of Transport and Communications to the level of legislative drafting and considers it necessary for the Ministry to take measures to improve the drafting of legislation.” As I said last week in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, all of this is indeed the text contained in the draft report by the committee. I hope that such a level of legislative drafting will not be extended to this House in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u98	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 7. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u99	Mr President! In recent times, strong attention has also been paid to the price and cost of living in Parliament. We remember how a strong stance was taken on the causes of homelessness here last Thursday, and last Friday, among other things, the possibility of moderate taxation on electricity. Not only have the high price of electricity and heating fuels taken up and will continue to consume an increasingly significant share of the current revenues of ordinary citizens, but despite the fact that the price of electricity energy itself has been reasonably low, the consumer price of electricity is increased by the price of electricity, the electricity tax and even VAT on electricity, and this needs to be changed quickly. I haven't received any citizen's feedback on the price of housing since today. Indeed, many Finns are rightly concerned about the adequacy of their incomes, and those living alone on low incomes are particularly vulnerable. For example, according to statistics, housing expenditure of retired women living alone in oil-fired detached houses accounts for as much as 47 per cent of disposable income. In my opinion, it is absolutely essential that Parliament find ways of reducing housing costs in the future. Mr President! Unfortunately, this proposal by the government before us to change the excise duty on electricity and certain fuels, or in practice to increase it, is going in a completely wrong and unsustainable direction. According to the arguments put forward by the proposal, the tax increases would be largely related to district heating and other heating costs for dwellings. Given the already high cost of living, the high taxation of energy and, for example, the high cost of electricity transmission and the high tax on electricity, which I mentioned earlier, this government proposal is unreasonable. True Finns cannot accept the measures proposed by the government to increase the price of housing even further. On the other hand, we will present this autumn a number of ways of reducing housing costs and costs. Mr President! Measures to reduce housing costs would make life easier for people with low incomes the most. Although housing is a vital basic need, it is totally unreasonable to assume that the people would like to use the lion’s share of their income, but at the moment they are forced to do so. Mr President! The Board of Directors must definitely take the everyday life of ordinary Finns into account when making decisions, and it also applies to this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u100	Mr President! The Finns of Finland cannot possibly accept how the central assembly government here increases the cost of living. True Finns feel that the price of living should be reduced. While Sipilä's seated government is now raising taxes, the Finns of Finland want to reduce taxes, and we will also present this in the alternative budget. In my view, this proposal is rather deficient in saying that the heating costs of detached houses will increase by around EUR 14 in long-distance and oil-fired households, but instead it does not indicate the impact on housing and therefore rents. In the opinion of the Finns Party, Finland's taxation has already gone too far. We have excessive taxation and it in itself leads to a negative vicious circle of the economy in which tax revenues start to interfere with the functioning of the economy and the overall benefits are approaching the negative. The most crucial part of this is therefore the purchasing power of households, which is totally unacceptable when we know how expensive living in Finland is and how expensive heating costs are. Well, this is, of course, a terrible disappointment that even this abusive bourgeois government is raising taxes. We all know for sure what would happen if we had an SDP government. I'm sure that would raise taxes too. Probably raise taxes even more.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u103	Mr President! However, on this subject, I would like to say that if the government is now proposing tightening and tightening the prices of heating fuels for certain types of heating, such as oil heating, it would at least be reasonable to propose forms of support for the introduction of alternative forms of energy, i.e. to ensure that households are genuinely able to switch to more environmentally friendly forms of heating. To these previous speeches, I would like to add that it is remarkable that, while the centre of the government still exists, the cost of living and living in a single house will be raised. Who in the government should be there to defend single - house dwellers? So I guess it's the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u104	Mr President, Mr President! Indeed, if I do not recall quite correctly, the party of that name in the government has been there for some time, and then, for example, the property tax was increased, which increased the price of living. This distribution of political points should be quite precise, but, of course, the environmental impact of these energy tax solutions is now essential to the energy tax issue. However, it has only been over a week since the report of the International Climate Panel, and we must not immediately forget that. However, the reduction in the vehicle tax gives unfortunate indications that the government is not serious about climate change. In fact, there are a few interesting points on which I would like to highlight the tax treatment of peat in the first instance. It is an excellent thing that peat is now also taxed, but I draw attention to the fact that the government has still failed to agree on the environmental criteria that would tax peat as well as other fossil fuels. So only a fiscal solution has been made. That is good, at least, but for the sake of consistency there should be environmental criteria and emission criteria. The taxation of peat has been quite squirming. The second point relates in itself to the important support for agriculture, which is once again going to be implemented in the form of an energy tax refund for farmers, but this time, unfortunately, it is not a proper reason, as was the case last time, but is now merely a new, permanent subsidy with negative environmental effects.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u105	Madam President! Of course, it is true that in Finland the overall tax rate is quite high, and I do not love taxes myself, and quite a few of us probably love them. Of course, maintaining a welfare society requires tax collection, and I would ask the Finns where you will take the money when you announced that you would reduce taxation on housing. That is one starting point. This debate on peat and the issue of the refund of energy tax on agriculture, which came up in the debate: peat is a slow renewable fuel, and in that sense its use is justified, but there have also been restrictions on agriculture. We all speak for Finnish food, but it seems that all we want is more and more costs for the producer in a situation where profitability is still low. In all ways, however, I think it should be assumed that Finnish, domestic food production
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u106	And on the list of speakers, Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u107	Mr President! Once again, energy taxes are on the table here, and I myself would like to recall the debate a year ago on this tax treatment of agriculture and light fuel oil. At that time, it was quite good for Parliament to say in a uniform way that it is right and important in itself that when there is a shortage of time — if you could say so badly — then we should also be able to help, but, as has been said jointly, this form of compensation should be one-off, that the refund of light fuel oil should replace this. At that time we wanted to do so, and a year has passed, and once again this compensation model is the same, even though Parliament required that we look for ways to compensate for this damage. What is becoming problematic here is not only, of course, that this is not necessarily the most environmentally friendly way in the world to compensate for these damage, but, of course, what the House said out loud at the time, that if it can be interpreted from this point of view that this is not a one-off but a permanent one, then it can, for its part, direct investment on the agricultural side in a certain direction which is not desirable from an environmental point of view, for example. That is why, Mr President, I would have liked this form of compensation to have been developed this time to be something other than this tax treatment of light fuel oil. Well, at the moment, we are back in a situation where that is what is on this table, and I am sure the Tax Division will see it. As such, agriculture must be helped, and this is not the issue at the moment, but rather this form and the fact that Parliament had hoped for a completely different outcome from one year ago if we came to such a sad situation that these compensations had to be paid again. This is what I wanted to say here. Perhaps the second thing I would like to say out loud about this is that this proposal as a whole still needs to be seen. We in the tax section have already heard a little about it in advance, and there, for example, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has some concerns about the impact of this proposal on district heating, for example, and yet it is still a very important solution that still exists in many cities, and I would therefore like to see that perhaps we are still thinking about it, or, at least, about what the situation is. Then, of course, when we talked about the cost of living at the beginning, we have, in fact, taken a whole range of concerns in the demarcation of many of the government's proposals, and not least here. This, of course, is where the cost of many people is rising. So have these compulsory increases in property tax, which were made twice and which were then cancelled on the third time. This is one of the performances.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u108	Mr President! This is where Mr Tavio raised the issue of taxation. I understand that the policy of the Peruvians is that you cannot live very far in debt, especially in the way some countries in southern Europe have gone and, unfortunately, where Italy seems to be going. That is a very responsible line, but that is exactly the question that Mr Reijonen raised here: well, where will the money be taken from? You have to take them from somewhere. But at the same time it should be noted that the overall tax rate has fallen during this government. That's the right line. Among other things, income taxation has decreased by more than EUR 1.5 billion. Of course, when I listen to these speeches, I see that we should not let the facts ruin a good story. Of course, this is often the case. At the same time, the economy has been balanced, and I believe that it would also be in line with the basic Finns' line in this respect, that it cannot continue to be a debt. It is true that in this government proposal the energy tax on peat will rise by EUR 1.10 per megawatt hour. But it must be noted, as the Greens, among others, have rightly commented today, that peat is increasingly cheaper than when the government started. So that's true. That's the price we've been getting down. Here, too, the taxation of combined heat and power production will be changed so that the CO2 tax in half will be abolished, but will be replaced by a reduction of EUR 7.63 per megawatt hour in the energy content tax on fuels used in combined production. These changes will increase the taxation of coal in combined production by around EUR 3 per megawatt hour and will reduce the taxation of natural gas by around 70 cents per megawatt hour. Is this not an environmentally sound trend? The taxation of hard coal will increase and natural gas will be cheaper. I think that this is the right direction for the government, and it really needs to be mirrored in this larger picture of the economy, where the overall tax rate has been reduced. Among other things, car taxation has been reduced by hundreds of millions and in this framework, and then in this budget the vehicle tax has been reduced by EUR 50 million. So, yes, a lot has happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u109	Mr President! Of course, it is a bit confusing that if you imagine that the government wants more work and more consumption in the country, how will taxation on energy and housing now increase consumption or employment? That's the connection I can't understand right now. To this comment by Mr Haraka on property tax, I would simply like to say that it is a question of changing the boundaries of real estate tax. Real estate tax must be decided by the municipality, and the income is accounted for by the municipalities. If the municipality thinks that it has too much money after collecting its minimum property tax, the municipality can always improve the services of its residents. Real estate tax is also a tool for regional development and does not treat different forms of heating or energy in any ideological way. An example of such ideological treatment of heating is peat and talking about peat being a fossil fuel, while another aspect is that it is in some way comparable to wood, at least for some time renewable fuel. Both of these fuels are domestic fuels and their use as energy is also an important factor for security of supply. There is also talk of the vitality of rural areas and regions. It is a wider question of where we want Finns to be able to live. Do they want the whole country to be inhabited or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u110	Yes, of course it is humane in itself that the decisions of the government in which it itself has been a member or a party are defended and then, when it comes to opposition, the actions of the next government are opposed, even if they are identical. However, the fact of this property taxation was, on two occasions, that it forced the municipalities of Southern Finland and the Helsinki Metropolitan Area to raise the lower limits of the property tax. And then a price tag was added to it: it had a fiscal objective both times, I think, of EUR 25 million for municipalities to compensate for tax revenue from municipalities. So there is no way to get over or around — the government of the True Finns also increased the cost of living, and that is it. It's the same misery
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u111	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u112	Madam Speaker! Whether the price of living was raised in the past or not — I bet it has been raised many times in the past in Finland — it is now in the present and these explanations do not weigh much in the pocket of the poor. The inhabitants of these oil - heated detached houses are mainly older people, they are older houses, there is an older, low - income resident. Already, half of the income of pensioners living alone in a detached house, widows in Finland, goes to housing. It's totally unreasonable. This increase in taxes on oil and district heating and the consequent increase in rent and the way it is directed at the most vulnerable citizens I have mentioned through these oil-heated self-catering houses is a very slimy and cheap trick for the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u113	Mr President! First of all, this upsizing of the real estate tax thresholds. It is true that they have been raised several times over the last few years, but it must also be remembered that last year's government proposal, which would have certainly raised the lower limits of property taxes very significantly. There would have been more than a hundred municipalities, as I recall, forced to lift them up. True, the Finns who were then cast into the opposition were very strongly against this presentation. Through the opposition's consistent opposition, it fell or the government had to withdraw this proposal, so our line in this regard was made clear last year. I should like to thank the government for coming to its senses last year in this regard. But, Mr President, one of the questions that was asked here was how the Finns of Finland would compensate for the loss of income that they had proposed if this were to go through our demand for a reduction in housing costs. Among other things, there has been a position here that during this term of government income tax has already been significantly reduced. The line that has been lightened has in itself been correct. Of course, it has been a lot of good income, but the main thing is that people with low incomes have also benefited somewhat from it. Similarly, unfortunately, consumer taxes have also been tightened during this parliamentary term and have, in fact, been directed mainly or more towards the low-income part of the population. But in our own line: We Finns also believe that the state budget should be balanced over the next few years. The path of debt is definitely complete. In our own alternative budget in the autumn, we will present an alternative that would owe Finland less than the government's budget proposal will. We have a number of dozens of joint budget initiatives from the parliamentary group and related legislative initiatives. Of course, they are available from that online service of the Parliament. Significant savings would be allocated to immigration and EU spending, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u114	Madam President! Originally, I also asked for this floor to state the same fact as Mr Harakka mentioned above, that during this term of government it was the case that the first two years of property tax were so-called'required'. In other words, when the state raises its lower limit, it means that in the municipalities where this lower limit is below, the property tax must be increased. And this happened for two years in a row. There was a third year when the government once again proposed this and when we firmly stated that now the situation is that, once this has already been forced twice, the third should no longer come, this is becoming unreasonable. Of course, we had opposed the two earlier ones. And then, as has been said, reason here triumphed over the fact that the government withdrew the compulsory withdrawal of the lower limit, of course, left the upper limit there, and we were very surprised, because no one is likely to use it, why it had to be left behind with the people and the law if it could have been left undone and perhaps saved some energy in this regard. But, President-in-Office, with regard to this bill, we have in the past, when the government has raised the energy tax in previous years, made a proposal in which we have hoped to see the effects of reforms and changes, for example, on housing costs, and if there were significant negative effects, then we should intervene. I would be interested in whether the government is currently following, for example, the impact of these many different proposals on housing costs in different sectors, for example, because we believe that this would be very justified. Housing costs consist of many, not least, property tax or heating costs and such, and I think that it would be reasonable if reforms or changes were made in many directions to increase housing costs, that the government would also follow them, and if it were to see that something might have to be done to ensure that the direction would not go so sharply in a particular direction, then there would be little delay in these proposals. That is the question I will now throw to the government. At least one minister there is already waiting for his own, next thing, so why don't the greetings go through it plus then through the representatives of the government parties to the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u115	Madam President! Mr Harakka said in his speech that the current government does not take climate change seriously. That's a completely false testimony. I do not know, Mr Harakka, what would have been the Finnish Government that would have made more decisions aimed at curbing climate change from our own small part than this current government. The current government takes climate change very seriously and has made important policies in the field of energy policy, among other things. The second point is this shift from labour taxation to more taxation of environmental damage and consumption. This is a sufficient reason for the work of the Assembly. So we want to encourage work, make work more profitable, and that is enough reason for taxing to continue to shift the focus from work to consumption and, above all, to the taxation of environmental damage. But another reason for this is, of course, the fight against climate change. In fact, it would require a much more radical shift in the focus of taxation, particularly on the taxation of environmental damage and consumption, and, accordingly, would allow for a much more substantial reduction in the tax burden on labour, which would be justified, among other things, by the considerations I mentioned above. This shift from taxation on labour to taxation on consumption and environmental damage is generally felt by all current parties — at least the major parties — to agree, but I would like the SDP to support individual efforts to promote this approach. Years ago, there was this equal tax debate, which was often held by the then chairman of the SDP, Jutta Urplainen, and I said already at that time that the gas pump could not be used to ask questions about the income level of that motorist and to determine the price of gas according to it, but that gas is subject to equal tax. Well, today's technology would apparently allow some card to look at the income data and it would be priced, but hardly the SDP is driving it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u116	Mr President! When Mr Viitanen spoke just now of this so-called'requirement' of property tax, when it is so repulsive — well, of course it is never a pleasant tax, and yet it is always compulsory — then why has the municipalities, as a result of this repulsive tax increase, not compensated for the tax revenue they have received from the general tax rate or, by the way, only in general for the benefit of low-income people?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u117	Madam President! On a minor point, I am taking part in this debate in the sense that when we look at housing costs, we must be honest about what is the real reason why housing costs in Finland are rising. It is, of course, this endless road of centralization that has raised the prices of dwellings to the clouds, and of course that price of the dwelling will have a direct impact on rents. They're one to one. Of course, a person or an investor who invests, even though he is a person, or a limited company that invests, or an institution that invests, even a private person can invest, of course... Many have, many of my acquaintances have many apartments. I know some people who have 50 apartments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u120	Madam President! However, let me now say that I would urge you all to be present in Parliament next Thursday from 5 p.m. onwards, of course, but from then on we will be discussing this very housing policy as a whole. There is an excellent unanimous report from the Audit Committee on housing problems, development needs. It's worth reading, it's worth taking part in the conversation. It unanimously states, among other things, that successful housing policy requires, among other things, a certain amount of smart regional development, and it also states unanimously that such solutions as those adopted during this period, for example, with regard to Savonlinna and the abolition of teacher training, were also a housing disaster in the region. It was a disaster anyway, but the committee concludes that the state itself should not take action in the area of regional policy, which only exacerbates this problem of housing policy, as it were, so that in another part of the capital region there are expensive homes, too few affordable rental homes, and elsewhere the country is emptying. This should not be done by the government itself, by education policy, by regional policy measures. Among other things, this has been stated unanimously in our committee's report, and I think it is a very important issue to consider. — I was reminded of the previous speech which was made here by the representative. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u121	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz praised the Government's climate achievements in general terms, but I had previously spoken about concrete measures. In other words, when the climate panel issued this very serious warning about the future of the planet, and almost all parties, including the Coalition Party, promised that something would be done about it, the next day in this Chamber there was a reduction in vehicle tax, in which the government's proposal itself states that this will increase emissions. This was based on my argument that the practical tax policy is at times in conflict with genuine climate objectives, and yes, the government's powerful party blues here celebrated the fact that their goal of a general reduction in driving has then been implemented by the government. This is not a sustainable climate policy. That is what I was referring to. But at all, it would be interesting to hear what is not a general point of view. Mr Zyskowicz criticised the general reference to consumption and environmental taxes. Well, he himself did not speak at all in detail, and I have expected the same from his party's minister, the Finance Minister Orpo, who has said many times in public that the focus on taxation should be shifted from taxation of labour to taxation of consumption and, above all, to taxation of environmental damage. What does that mean in concrete terms? What kind of consumption would he tax? He hasn't said a single number or a single price tag on it. For example, plastic taxation: should the Finnish plastic industry now be concerned about the intentions of the Coalition Party to tax plastic? Give me a concrete example. That is how I challenge you, Mr Zyskowicz, to talk about prices and effects. If the aim is to shift the tax focus, then more than 10 billion of this EUR 90 billion tax revenue should already be derived from consumption taxes. This is of interest to low income Finns who may suspect that, since consumption taxes are often equal in nature, as you rightly said, this may appear in the bag of a poor Finnish citizen and lead to an increase in income differentials. The SDP's response to this challenge is to value added tax on sustainable development, whose long-term objective would be to reflect the environmental and climate impact of each product and service and the impact of social sustainability on the tax level. This would keep this issue on the agenda. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Zyskowicz once again for saying that, when the SDP has access to these programmes in practice in the future, he did not even use the word ‘if’ when referring to April14. days.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u122	Madam President! First of all, in response to Mr Viitanen's speech, he concentrated in his speech, in which he pretended to be in the final part of his speech to me, merely on the internal allocation of income tax, i.e. on the internal allocation of income tax, and he did not say anything about this priority which I was talking about, namely the shift in taxation from labour to the taxation of consumption and environmental damage. As far as Mr Haraka's speech is concerned, we must apologise at the outset for this misunderstanding. I spoke about the options of the SDP in the present Parliament, in the current legislative work, which you are actually doing here, for example in relation to the present proposal, brings out compared to the general level of speeches in which you as such consider it justified to shift the above-mentioned priority. So, contrary to what you understood, Mr Harakka, I did not say anything about the post-election period, because that is something we do not know about. But I had expected Mr Haraka to have had enough men — excuse this non-gender-neutral expression — to admit that the argument that the current government is not taking climate change seriously is not true, because that is not the case, but Mr Harakka was not ready for this. The first comment, when emphasis was placed on the distribution of income and the fact that the SDP wants to pay particular attention to them in tax solutions, is that this was noticed in a very sad way. During the last parliamentary term, when we wanted to increase the tobacco tax, the SDP was opposed to an increase in the tobacco tax because it would have had a negative effect on the so-called Gini coefficient. Perhaps this is a good example of how narrowly the SDP can look at these tax issues. With regard to this shift from taxation on labour to taxation on consumption and environmental damage, which is also an absolutely essential and appropriate measure for climate change, as long as the SDP looks hard at these income effects, and even at the marginal changes there, it seems difficult for the SDP at the same time to support the shift from taxation on labour to taxation on environmental damage, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u125	Let us stick to the list of speakers, because time is limited.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u126	Mr President! Indeed, in this proposal, these changes in taxation would increase the tax burden on coal and reduce the tax burden on natural gas. For example, from an environmental point of view, I think that this is a sensible measure. With regard to what Mr Harakka said about the cost of driving, it is true that the blue is the private car driver's party. There's nothing to be shy about. There's nothing to hide. The car tax has been reduced by hundreds of millions of euros, what the Social Democrats have opposed, what I am wondering about in that sense, and as far as the Greens are concerned, I am surprised that this is an environmentally sound measure. Reforming the car fleet — this should be the aim of all parties — and at the same time the tax revenue has increased by tens of millions of euros. The blues really wanted to bring the reduction in vehicle tax into the budget, and that was a success. There's nothing to be shy about, either. As regards the climate, Finland's CO2 emissions decreased by 5.9 per cent last year, while net emissions have decreased by 50 per cent since 1990. Thus, the economy has grown and, for example, the number of cars in transport has increased, but at the same time emissions are decreasing. Even at EU level, Finland is one of the few countries that have been able to do this. In that sense, we have no need for self-flashing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u129	We have 45 minutes for this debate. I will take these speeches, which are now on the list, three speeches, and then this will have to be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u130	Madam President! Representative Elo said very well these facts, where the world is going at the moment. It is true that the climate is changing, and the taxation of fossil substances, of course, is better than not taxing, because the additional tax that comes there is, of course, steering consumption in the direction it should direct it. As Mr Elo said, over the last decades Finland's carbon dioxide emissions have decreased, the economy has grown dramatically, carisation has increased. For example, this much talked about car tax: each one of us knows that when old cars are scrapped and replaced by a car equipped with all modern air purification systems that consumes half of what that old gorge consumed, it is certainly a climate action. But it is worth the same breath to remember that now people — especially in the countryside — have the fear of getting those old Toyota Corrollas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u134	President! All I am saying to this previous speech is that I think that these reports are wise and should be taken seriously and it is great and important that we finally raise the climate challenge that is more spectacular on the planet. [Hannu Hoskonen’s interlude] President! As far as the matter is concerned, I think that the Harakka has already said quite well that the SDP has many good ideas which allow us to further develop taxation, and one that comes again to this environmental taxation is the VAT solution for sustainable development that we are currently working on. In my opinion, it is in a way the answer to the question that environmental taxes can also be collected in a variety of ways. As far as the impact on the environment is concerned, the list of things that you actually told this government, for example on the tax side, is very modest, because if you think that this proposal is a great solution also from the climate point of view, then at the same time, I remember, there is this vehicle tax mentioned on the table, the fall that YM was a little anxious about for us in that tax section, that this is very much again contrary to the climate objective. Here's the deal. Then, as far as consistency is concerned, before the government raised the vehicle tax, while now here some people want to take points for it to fall. This has been a bit like this now, and the underlying reason is that we look at the fiscal effects and do not think very deeply about them. These were now the repetition of the facts, rather than the statements I made a moment ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u135	Mr President! The difference between Mr Zyskowicz and myself is that I used them and that representative I mentioned did not use them. He praised the Government's climate policy without identifying it, I told you exactly that on 9 October, exactly two weeks ago, the effects of the vehicle tax in this Chamber will increase emissions — the day after the International Climate Panel had warned us Finns, the day after the party presented by Mr Hoskonen expressed far greater apparent concern than the representative himself about what climate change means for the next generations and the future of the planet. Mr Zyskowicz was not in himself a man supposed to answer the question I put to him: give practical examples of the major structural change you are making here from labour taxation to the taxation of consumption and, above all, of environmental damage. In fact, as the only example, he mentioned this draft law in terms of concepts, the impact of which on central government finances, ladies and gentlemen, is between EUR 33 million and EUR 37 million. So that's 0.3 per mil of government tax revenue. So at least zero is missing or two zeros are now missing from this major structural change in taxation which you yourself proudly highlighted towards a climate-friendly and environmentally-friendly direction. This question has still not been answered, but for your amusement, believe that in the coming months you will not be able to cope with what will be your billion-dollar investment in how to transfer labour taxation to the taxation of consumption and how to convince the low-income Finns that they will not hit their purse, because they too must spend. It is not in itself contrary to the ideology of the coalition that this is an equal tax, but this greenwashing of your unequal policies and your non-existent tax policy will not be so cheaply successful.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u136	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 8. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u137	Madam President! So now there is a government proposal to amend the Pension Aid Act, which will be a continuation of the pension subsidy, the so-called Lex Lindström. Although the economic and employment situation has improved, there are persons among the long-term unemployed who are unlikely to be employed before retirement age. It would be humanly reasonable to secure the livelihood of these people with a pension subsidy. At the same time, it can be thought that the resources of the Employment Administration would be re-allocated. The pension allowance is intended for persons aged 60 or over who have been unemployed for almost five years. The proposed law would cover unemployed persons who have reached the age of 60 years before 1 September 2018. The conditions for receiving a pension subsidy would be in line with current principles. The grant would be conditional on the applicant having been paid at least 1250 days of labour market support or a maximum period of unemployment allowance and labour market support for 750 days during the six-year period. It would also be subject to the condition that the applicant is eligible for labour market support on 1 September 2018. Some other situations, such as sickness allowance, would also be comparable to receiving labour market support. The pension allowance would be equal to the guaranteed pension and would be paid up to the age of old age. The recipient of the pension benefit is entitled to a pension income deduction within the meaning of the Income Tax Act and would now be covered by the pensioner's housing allowance, the child-retirement allowance under the National Pensions Act and the child-retirement allowance. It is estimated that the new pension allowance would be paid to approximately 2,800 people. The amendment of the Pension Support Act should enter into force from the beginning of October 2019, thus providing sufficient time for the implementation of the Act. The new pension allowance would be paid as of 1 October 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u138	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to amend the Pension Aid Act to extend the scope of the beneficiaries of pension aid. The pension subsidy will continue, i.e. the long-term unemployed aged 60 and over, who have been continuously unemployed for five years will be eligible for the pension subsidy. This will also put an end to the duties of the unemployed person. This is the expected and correct solution for many, and it has been estimated that around 2,800 people can apply for the subsidy. The pension allowance is the same as the guarantee pension, i.e. EUR 775 per month 27 cent per month at the level of 2018 and would be paid until the long-term unemployed person reaches retirement age. Despite the improved employment situation, there are still people among the long-term unemployed who are, for example, hard to find employment due to their lost skills, low education, life history, health status or other similar reasons. Their position in the labour market is very weak and there is no realistic prospect of employment. Pension allowance is a humane way for those who have been unemployed for a long time to get away from the obligations of a job seeker. We also needed a blue minister to initiate this proposal. Thank you to the Minister for some 2,800 long-term unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u139	Mr President! It is also important — which is directly linked to the next draft law, but certainly to this same subject — that Lex Lindström's pension subsidy is raised to the level of the guarantee pension at the same time, and now it is easy to say to the public that it is also equal in this respect. The purpose of this law is, of course, to implement, for the second time, an arrangement whereby people who have been long-term unemployed and who are in a very difficult labour market situation — such as a representative — are, for example, in a one-off situation. The angle here pointed out — the income will be secured by pension aid before the old age pension begins. In fact, only 1% of these long-term unemployed people reached normal working life, i.e. they could say that it is a poor percentage if they were to expect access to a normal labour market. There is no longer any need to register as job seekers and apply for labour market support, which is a very sensible solution from a human point of view, and I would see that also in the economic sense of the state. I doubt, and even hope, that further one-off solutions of this kind will be made in the near future, because of course there will also be people who may be very close to this limit, which is set here — this 60 years and more — who will not fill it but could otherwise, in many ways, fulfil this concept of the same group of people. In that sense, I hope that this will continue to be seriously considered, because the situation of this large group of people — the long-term unemployed, and especially the long-term unemployed over 60 years of age — is unlikely to improve substantially, unfortunately. Of course, we must thank the government for this for the second time that we have been prepared for this. Of course, negotiations were required, but thanks to all the government groups for this. Thank you, of course, in the Social Democrats, to Mr Taipalee, who raised this idea at the time — even when his party would have done so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u140	Mr President! I, too, welcome this proposal. It is good now to take a look at this Government's overall vision of employment policy. That is because we have tried to do so and have made it more profitable to do work and to do work in Finland than it was in the past. In other words, the employment threshold has been reduced, and this debate is now under way on yet another issue. This has been the main reason why we now have 115,000 more jobs than we had when this government started. In addition, the government has consistently sought to mobilise those unemployed who are believed to have access to employment. And, of course, it is also important to ensure that their services work so that we can, through continuing training, through various training courses in employment, through work trials, support employment and other activities, get as many people into work as possible. But then it is quite right that the people whom Mr Elo referred to above and whose chances of employment are very close to zero.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u141	Madam President! I very much support this bill. It is a great thing and more valuable to retire and to include people in pension systems who have almost impossible prospects of employment and access to working life due to high age and possibly health-related problems, for example, because those people have already done their own life's work for this society, and then, in the second place, those who can genuinely find employment — younger and healthier and better able — should be targeted at the people who might be employed in the event of job creation. There has been one leading idea in the government's programme and, first of all, it has been that tax reductions can actually create a situation in which work becomes more profitable. After all, this house has tried dozens of times, which is the effect of an increase in taxes on employment. It is the worst poison for employment and employment if taxes are raised. That's for sure. There are so many examples of this that it would not be necessary to list them. The second is that the threshold for employment is lowered and access to employment is made easier. And then the incentive that being at work is always more profitable than raising someone’s compensation. Once these things are made even better... The government has been working for nearly four years, and the results are beginning to show: More than 100,000 people have got a job, and it has affected a huge number of families when a parent has got a job, even in the best cases both. After all, their lives are of enormous importance. That is why I would like to see a real consensus in the Finnish Parliament that we are genuinely working in this house to ensure that as many Finns as possible get that job. It is clear that there are different ideological and political tensions between parties, but I do not think there should be any tension here. The most important thing is to get every person who is ever able to get into, into, and thus into, working life, because in a long run, for a person, collecting pension provision for retirement years is the only right and sustainable and profitable way to support a person's life. Then there is one thing worth mentioning in this debate, and that is that when people get to work, they will be able to access the social safety net that we working people have enjoyed in our lifetime. Every one of us knows that when we have colleagues and good friends, it is therefore an extremely important matter for life. Let us be fair enough to work in the whole house to give the opportunity to as many Finns as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u142	Mr President! Speaking here of another Lex Lindström, a major question for the long-term unemployed over 60 years of age, for one reason or another the political left side of the hall has disappeared. Let someone else judge why this is so. However, in their solemn speeches they also call for different measures, but when they are presented, when they could be evaluated and given feedback to the Minister and even to the Minister who has given his name, Jari Lindström, the Minister for Labour, they are not here, however. But this continuation of the pension subsidy model is also part of a range of instruments that blue people want to use to raise the employment rate to 75% in general. If the 72 targets are reached during this government, it is quite clear that the next government will have to try even harder to achieve a result. The working title for this range of means, of which this Lex Lindström 2 is part, is the work capacity programme, which means that over the term of the government we must have guidelines on how to find solutions to help those who are hardest at work back to work. This report has now been finalised by the Ministry of Labour, and I am sure that it will also be possible to assess its results. It is estimated that around 28,000 people have taken advantage of the possibility of pension support provided by the First Act, and in this second, it is estimated that around 2,800 can apply for it. However, there were some 5300 potential beneficiaries of the first grant and, of course, the question arises as to the reasons for not having been applied for by all those who had been able to apply for this pension. There are certainly well - founded reasons for different life situations, but this is what I wondered about.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u143	Mr President! I, too, am in favour of this bill for the sake of humanity. There are many people for whom this pension would be a genuinely life-saving solution, and there are often also those who will have a pension higher than the current level of income. In these cases, I think it is quite appropriate that this type of procedure should be reinstated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u144	Madam President! I, too, am in favour of this law. I welcome the fact that this has been done again, and I would like to say at the same time that we have a very large number of people on the TE Office's lists who need social and health care services in particular. They would also need to find out how to work, and so many are in the wrong place, as it were. You can hear this over there when you talk to the employees and the people at the TE Office. It is sad in a way, and not in a way at all, but it is sad for the people who are in the wrong place, and it is sad for the TE Offices too, because the resources go a little like the wrong destination. We should simply see this situation now and direct these people to the right places, and this solution we are talking about is, of course, the best one for some.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u145	Reply, Minister Mattila, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u146	Madam President! Thank you for your thanks. A few questions that were asked are answered. Firstly, Mr Paloniemi, this issue you raised has already been examined in a number of ways under the Government Programme, partly in the context of the 'Road to Work' project, the OTE-tip project, and also in the experiment of participatory social security, but above all in the most recent document on this disability programme and the fact that we have investigators Raija Keröstär and Tuija Oivo in the context of the OTE-tip project, looking into the very core of unemployment and the services that could be specifically targeted there. It is a question of allocation of resources in the final analysis. But, Mr Elo, you asked why, as a matter of fact, there is no Lex Lindström number one applied for. Of course, there is no precise reason, because statistics are slowly amassing, but these are clearly the underlying reasons: the person has already been close to the age of old age and is applying directly for an old-age pension; it may be that the person has assessed his financial situation in such a way that the same money somehow revolves around the economy and has not come to seek support; the person has come into Lex Lindström but has received some other pension when this has become relevant; or, of course, it may be the rare or less rare situation that the person has started a paid job. It is also possible, of course. It may also be possible that this has even been a lack of information in some cases, but, as has been said, this data becomes more accurate when statistics and data are collected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u147	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 9. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u148	Madam President! The government's proposal to amend and amend the Health Insurance Act and some other laws is now under discussion. The proposal would implement the improvements to the various benefits decided on in the budgetary plan for 2019 to 2022 and certain technical changes to the Health Insurance Act and the Act on general housing allowance. It is also proposed to amend the law on the promotion of the return to work of persons on disability pension, i.e. the so-called Rest Act. It is proposed to improve the livelihood of those living on the lowest pension income by raising the guaranteed pension to approximately EUR 784,50 per month. The increase would therefore be good EUR 9 per month. An increase in the guarantee pension would also increase the pension subsidy as it is linked to the amount of the guarantee pension. This would also help older people with a particularly difficult labour market position to be long-term unemployed. This is the third increase in the Government term: from the beginning of 2016, the guarantee pension was increased by EUR 20 and from the beginning of 2018 by EUR 15. It is proposed to reduce the annual allowance for prescription medicines, i.e. the so-called cap on medicinal products, from around EUR 605 to EUR 572. This will make it possible to reduce a lot of the cost of medicines for those taking medicines. It is proposed to increase the minimum amount of rehabilitation allowance for young people and rehabilitation allowance for vocational rehabilitation in Kela to the level of the guarantee pension. This is aimed at promoting the recruitment of young people with partial capacity to work and of adults who are not able to join the labour market for vocational rehabilitation instead of disability pension. With the amendments to the Act on Resting, the lower limit of fixed earnings for resting on disability pension would, without any regulation, remain at the level of the guarantee pension. The aim of the proposed amendment is to remove the incentive trap caused by different limits, increase the predictability of leaving the disability pension to rest, and clarify the functioning of the system by, for example, facilitating information on earnings limits. The minimum daily allowance under the Health Insurance Act is proposed to be increased to the level corresponding to labour market support. In addition, the 55-day waiting period in the Health Insurance Act, which will apply if the daily allowance is lower than the minimum daily allowance, is proposed to be abolished. In the future, sickness allowance would be paid to all with the same principles as the minimum amount. The liability provision has been unequal and illogical. It is difficult to find reasons why sickness allowance should be different from other daily allowance benefits. In addition, the application of the provision has included discretion and arbitrage in assessing whether invalidity is likely to last for a maximum period of sickness benefit. Already the SATA Committee drew attention to the lack of attention and proposed that 55 days of ownership be waived. Fortunately, it will now be put right, and the rule will be passed on to history. Mr President! It is proposed to improve the equality of the parental allowance system. In the future, paternity allowance would be granted to fathers of plural families. The parental allowance period of the mother taking care of the child alone would be extended to reflect the combined parental allowance period of the two-parent families. The right to an extension of the parental allowance period would be granted in situations where there would be no other person besides the mother of the child who could, for example, receive paternity allowance. The adoption period would be extended to correspond to the maternity and parental allowance period of biological parents after the birth of the child. It is also proposed that all those who adopt a child from outside their own family should be entitled to parental allowance, i.e. restrictions on the child’s age in parental allowance for adoptive parents. The provisions on the determination of parental allowances would also be specified in such a way that the management of municipal positions of trust would not be regarded as gainful employment. Parental allowance could also be paid in full for days when the parent participates in the duties of trust. According to a temporary amendment to the law in force until the end of 2018, a private health care service may be paid health care allowance if treatment is provided in public premises. It is proposed to extend the temporary amendment until the end of 2022. This is because it is appropriate to pay medical compensation for the costs of private health care provided on public premises until private medical care benefits are abolished. In addition, the Government proposes that the temporary regulation on the maximum price of taxi rides to be reimbursed for health insurance be extended until the end of 2021. The start-up of the order agencies that Kela has launched has raised unfortunate start-up problems. In the majority of regions, it is expected that the service level will reach the level of the contracts. However, in case of possible problems, it is good that the maximum travel price is laid down in the law. As far as the ministry is concerned, an immediate response has been made and these measures have been taken immediately, which the Ministry can do through legislation. These proposals relate to the draft budget for 2019 and are intended to be examined in connection with it. The amendments are intended to enter into force on 1 January 2019 and changes in parental allowances are intended to enter into force on 1 April 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u149	Madam President! It is very easy to support this proposal. This Government proposal implements the budgetary plan for 2019 to 2022. The proposal increases some daily allowances and guarantee pension and improves the conditions for granting parental allowances from the perspective of family equality. The guarantee pension will now be increased for the third time during this Government term from EUR 775.27 to EUR 784.52 per month in 2019. Although the increase is small, EUR 9 per month, it is still an increase for a low-income person living on a guaranteed pension. It must be remembered that during this term of government, the guarantee pension has already been increased twice, as the Minister has just said, by a total of EUR 35. Rehabilitation allowance and rehabilitation allowance for vocational rehabilitation will be increased to the level of the guarantee pension. This is aimed at promoting the recruitment of young people with partial capacity to work and of adults who are not able to join the labour market for vocational rehabilitation instead of disability pension. Increasing the rehabilitation allowance will reduce the long-term costs of social exclusion and disability pensions for young people. The minimum wage limit for resting on an invalidity pension shall also be increased to the level of the guarantee pension. At the same time, the pension subsidy previously discussed increases to the level of the guarantee pension. Minimum daily allowance, i.e. sickness allowance, maternity, paternity and parental allowance and special care allowance, will be increased by EUR 80 per month. The daily allowance will rise to the level of labour market support, which will bring basic security to the same level for both the unemployed and the mothers or fathers who stay at home. The increase in minimum daily allowances will contribute to the objective of reducing inequalities in social security. The share of pharmaceutical costs, i.e. the cap on pharmaceuticals, will be reduced by 33 euros. Reducing the ownership of medicines costs the state approximately EUR 5 million. I think that this reform is particularly expected in that field, because it affects so many people. The taxi rides have been talking all fall. Temporary regulation on their maximum price would be extended until the end of 2021. This is absolutely essential that compensation for Kela taxis does not go to free fall. Customers will continue to have a Kela taxi's EUR 25 own contribution, and this proposal is not about to change it. Mr President! This government proposal is more than a welcome reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u150	Mr President! It's time for a thank-you. We rarely get to accept this type of bill here in Parliament's Chamber, where a number of large and then a number of smaller but very important things have been taken care of at the same time. Of course, the big questions are related to the guarantee pension and the reduction in the maximum level of the medical ceiling, which is targeted at the same part of the most vulnerable elderly population, where the cost of medical treatment for prescription medicines is increased as age also brings with it various kinds of ailments. Improving their life situation, although with a small increase in the guarantee pension, is an important achievement. However, I would like to highlight in particular changes in parental benefits: As a mother of a plural family, I welcome the fact that fathers will have better opportunities to participate in family situations and care in the future. Twins have twice as much work, if not triple, compared to the normal situation. Finland needs every child, and women who receive children alone must continue to receive adequate benefits. Adoption parenthood is one of the most challenging of parents. It is therefore important that the specific situation of the child is also taken into account in the case of a foreign adoption with longer parental leave than in the past. It is also important for democracy that the decision-making process at municipal level includes parents of young children. This correction, that during parental leave, does not count as earned income, is welcome, and that will enable us to activate young people also in politics, decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u151	Mr President! As has been pointed out here, the guarantee pension will be increased for the third time, then a total of EUR 44 per month. It's already a significant amount. I have seen that some opposition parties will have a proposal for the following period that the guarantee pension be increased by the same amount. This government has already done so, here and now. Furthermore, as I mentioned earlier, Lex Lindström's pension subsidy will then increase to the level of the guarantee pension, and that too is a very important reform. The index of basic security has been discussed and the index freeze that the government has had to do to adjust the economy. This increases the minimum daily allowance — sickness allowance, maternity, paternity and parental allowances and special care allowance — by EUR 80 per month. It is clearly more than an increase on a monthly basis if the index of basic security were raised. This is, in a way, a specific measure, which the government chose from these two options: either to raise these minimum daily allowances or to increase the index. It is also important to note that the 55-day retention period for non-income earners will be removed from sickness allowances, and this will cut the income cycle in an important way, when there will then be no need to apply for income support during the benefit period — so clearly improve the position of low-income earners. In particular, I would like to raise a question which, if I may say so, has rightly been raised by the interests of adoptive parents, and now there will be a change, that is to say, the right of adoptive parents to parental allowance even when the child is under 18 years of age, has at present been justified only if the child is under seven years of age, i.e. a significant change in this respect. At the same time, adoptive parents would have the right to work during the parental allowance period. Currently, work or study is not allowed, which has been quite an unusual situation. Of course, the share of pharmaceutical costs, the so-called cap on medicines, will also be reduced. This too is particularly important for people who use a lot of medicines, Finns, mostly pensioners. Once again, it must be said in this context that, when it comes to the very decisions that the political left has called for by this cauldron, a conservative, conservative government, the political left-hand side is completely lacking here. You should also be there when making the decisions that are always required, or which the opposition party itself will present in its alternative budget, or which it will propose over the next four years, when this government and the blue make those decisions here and now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u152	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 10. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u153	Madam President! The present Government proposal therefore proposes to amend the Pension Foundations Act, the Insurance Fund Act, the Pension Pension Pension Schemes Act and the Pension Fund Act and the Insurance Act. The proposed laws would implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the operation and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision by introducing the necessary amendments to national legislation required by the Directive. The proposed laws would apply to the voluntary supplementary pension activities of pension funds and pension funds to complement statutory pension provision. The proposed provisions would not apply to the activities of pension funds and pension funds in so far as they carry out statutory pension insurance within the meaning of the Pensions Act and the Entrepreneur Pensions Act. The proposal will improve the security of the activities of foundations and cashiers engaged in supplementary pension activities and the protection of the interests of insured persons by providing for more precise requirements for the management system. The proposal strengthens the management system for supplementary pensions for pension funds and pension funds by providing more precise rules on, inter alia, risk management, internal audit and actuary functions. The proposal improves the access to information on supplementary pension schemes for insured persons by providing for an additional pension benefit statement to be sent free of charge each year. The proposal also includes a proposal to amend the regulation of the maximum rate for the calculation of technical provisions for pension funds and pension funds. It is a question of setting a technical interest rate. Instead of a decree from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, a maximum interest rate would be issued by the Financial Supervisory Authority in the future. In addition, the proposal will contribute to the functioning of the internal market for occupational pensions by providing more precise conditions for cross-border activities of IORPs and, under certain conditions, by allowing cross-border transfers of IORPs to an institution recognised in another EEA State. These measures are intended to contribute to the promotion of occupational pension schemes and thus to securing the livelihood of an ageing population. The proposal has no impact on national social and labour law, which must always be respected in cross-border activities and cross-border transfers. Only the necessary amendments to the Pension Foundations Act and the Insurance Fund Act are proposed to ensure that the new regulation does not unnecessarily increase the administrative burden and administrative costs of pension funds and foundations. In view of the small scale of supplementary pension activities carried out by pension funds and pension funds, there is no need for additional national regulation in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u154	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda is the 11th item.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u155	Madam President! The Government's proposal to the Parliament as a museum law and a law amending the Act on the financing of education and culture is part of the overall reform of the funding system for performing arts and museums. There is a general justification for the reform of the law and it is good that the overall reform of the financial system of performing art and museums is being prepared as a whole. It could be welcome to have a broader debate on the overall impact of the reform on the future government and on the possible economic impact: whether it will be transferred to the forthcoming government term. In this respect, I would like to raise concerns which have arisen, particularly in the municipal area, in relation to the future prospects of existing operators. In the cultural activities of many cities, museums play a central role. They want to take responsibility for the quality and development of their operations, and they are prepared to invest significant financial resources in maintaining them in the future. In addition to general well-being, education and education, museum activities can also be a significant factor in vitality. For many reasons, municipalities are also implementing and planning to undertake significant renovation investments in order to ensure that the exhibition, work and public spaces of museums, as well as the facilities for the management and storage of collections are appropriate, just as is required under Section 8. However, the long-term development of museum and cultural activities requires that changes in the operating environment, in particular the risks of its financing base, can be anticipated as well as possible. This is highlighted in the action and economic plans, which extend the scope of the review to a longer period. From the point of view of the stability and predictability of the operating environment, the intention to change state participations to fixed-term is not without problems. It can contribute not only to the fragmentation of existing entities but also to the delay in making financing decisions. There are some vagues in the draft law in relation to the assessment criteria for eligibility for assistance and in relation to the transparency of the evaluation processes. In Section 3(1) of the Museums Act, the Ministry of Education and Culture decides that the museums are eligible for state participation within the limits of the state budget. And also: new museums which meet the criteria for state participation can only be accepted for the State contribution to a limited extent and human years may not necessarily be fixed in full in line with the actual man-years. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u156	Mr President! Not only is this about amending the museum law, but it is also about the system of state aids for museums, theatres and orchestras that are currently being prepared. The working group has sat down, and certain lines have since been drawn up and some of the lines have not yet been drawn up, of course, in relation to this problem in relation to the overall financing of the system. All in all, I agree with what I heard the previous speaker say very well that museums play an important role in our society, and so do theatres and orchestras and culture in general. It is important not only as an absolute value but also as a enhancer of intellectual well-being, and today we know more and more how much culture and its maintenance mean that people are even better physically, and of course that we have a vibrant network of cultural institutions and cultural offerings all over Finland, is also of great importance to the regional economy, employment, all of this. So, all in all, promoting culture is very important in this society. I think, Mr President, that today we should see the creative economy and also the importance of culture and art in society as a whole on a larger scale than we can see today, because I firmly believe that there will be a lot of medicines available, both in terms of employment and vitality, as well as in terms of issues relating to the well-being of people and the fact that it is really a great thing if every person could go hand in hand with culture and thereby gain creativity in their lives, have the opportunity to face culture and also to be a creative actor and, in this way, experience spiritual well-being in the future. But, President-in-Office, I referred to this overall development of the system of state subsidies. After all, the work of this working group has now been carried out and certain proposals for reform have been made. There was one example along the way, among other things, of the fear that Tampere's Workers The theatre would have lost a few million of its subsidies, which would have resulted in a cultural disaster, and fortunately this policy was reversed and Minister Terho said that this was not being taken forward. Instead, the government directed that this reform be carried forward from the funding side of museums, and set aside 7 million for this, so that the museums would receive not next but the following year 4 and free art groups 3 million. As good as ever, Mr President, when money is being increased, but in practice the small problem, and not even the small problem of power, is that there is not enough money coming into this whole. If we want to invest in culture, we need more funding. President, if you will allow me, I would like to take the floor just a little further. [ The speaker moves to the podium] So, President-in-Office, as we are trying to take this reform forward with little resources, we are unfortunately faced with the prospect that things will not be resolved here, and the theatres and orchestras, so to speak, are still completely excluded from this overall reform, the so-called performing art, because these additional millions, which will inevitably be needed in order for the new system to work, have not been found. I would now like to take up the idea here, which I have often spoken about: All in all, all the money invested in culture is a very small sum of central government finances as a whole. That's a very small amount. I have often said that if the budget of the state is the size of a beach ball, then the money of culture is the size of a ping-pong ball, and even if we withdraw the whole ping-pong ball for reasons of state finances, it would not save that beach ball; instead, the air would go away. That is why we should now jointly invest in culture and carry out this long-awaited state-owned reform. In order to do so, we would inevitably need additional millions so that we can move forward with this reform, including for theatre and orchestras, and also have more resources for these free groups. There is concern that, although there will now be more than is hoped for, it will be too little to help this situation, and that is why there is a need for more overall funding. I would like us to be able to do so — because I have spoken with several representatives about the various parties on this issue and there is a desire to see the significance of culture — that in some way we, together in Parliament, should say that we need a culture and culture and art that deserve a certain amount of support from the state, too, and that we could commit ourselves to leaving this house with a decision or a word or a will that this state aid reform will be carried out with honour. Overall, the need for additional resources, when this work was started in the working group, was such that it was known that more resources were needed. The mandate was that this should be done in a cost-neutral manner, and everyone said that the challenge would be difficult, and then, when the work of the working group was completed, this figure of 7 million is now being increased, but the problem is that estimates of how much would be needed will move around 20 to 40 million. In other words, not a large amount of money in itself, but a kind of money that would clearly be needed to bring this reform to fruition.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u157	Madam President! A diverse museum field plays an important role in promoting Finnish culture, culture and science. The importance of museums as a deepener of domestic love and local awareness is also obvious. Museums highlight social and topical issues and increase people's well-being and understanding of the world. The role of museums as a factor of attraction and competitiveness has also been better understood. They don't have dusty and boring places in much of nowhere anymore. Today, more and more people are competing for free time, and the museums have responded in a fine way. Museum cards and various forms of cooperation with the field of education, various organisations and companies serve as good examples. The legislative changes that will be made aim to ensure that the state and the public sector are also more closely involved in modernising the museum field. Mr President! It is important for the city centre that museum activities are nationwide. When decisions are made on future responsible museums, the national network of museums must be maintained. It should also be borne in mind that in those regions where there are more regional museums at present, more museums of regional responsibility can continue to operate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u158	Madam President! I shall continue my previous speech on this point — I was mistakenly left here. Of course, I could have come in front of you. In other words, I noted that the draft law contains a number of ambiguities in relation to the assessment criteria for eligibility for assistance and in relation to the transparency of the evaluation processes: ‘According to Article3(1) of the muselain,the Ministry of Jaedelle:‘The National Board of New museums qualifying for state participation can only be admitted to the State's participation on a limited scale, and it may not necessarily be possible to establish man-years in full in line with the actual man-years.” It is likely that in the coming years the number of eligible actions will exceed the real resources available. Particular attention should be paid to the fact that the criteria of the National Board of Antiquities for assessing eligibility are as clear as possible. By limiting the possibilities of interpretation, unnecessary ambiguity can be avoided. At a more general level, the evaluation of activities should be as transparent as possible and strongly based on verifiable information. This is very important when looking at inter-financial activities, but also when assessing the conditions associated with artistic activities. Of course, the point of view must also be extended to discretionary grants. Mr President! For its part, the State must take responsibility for ensuring that the costs incurred by municipalities in carrying out the tasks prescribed by law are not out of hand. The Government's preparation has been based on the premise that the reform can be carried out in a cost-neutral manner in terms of financial impact. In its own opinion, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has taken a strong and clear view that the allocation of appropriations must be sufficient for both imputed state contributions and discretionary grants. The Federation notes that the central government shares have been cut by EUR 20 million since 2012 and continues to stress that it makes no sense to move to the new system without the necessary and seriously considered budget adjustments. It is therefore appropriate to ask what concrete improvements the legislative amendment will bring to the current situation if sufficient resources are not allocated to strengthening the operation. At the practical level, municipalities have a strong will to support, develop and maintain high-quality and diverse museum activities. I therefore hope that, in preparing and taking forward the law, care will be taken to ensure that these conditions for developing and maintaining museum activities in any city or municipality will not be pushed down in the future either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u159	Madam President! Firstly, it would have been really great if the Minister had been here to discuss this important issue with us. My point is quite the same as Mr Viitanen raised very well. The funding of art and culture would require an overall assessment, a thorough review. We have heard so many groups in this country who offer very high-quality art and culture that it is very depressing that, for example, the free field, which is absolutely necessary for the renewal of art and culture, is currently in a situation where very many actors are not receiving any support. The world is changing around, and we should be brave enough to look at this, too, to see whether resources can be allocated in some other way, because this is not a good situation at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u160	Madam President! I would like to thank both Mr Mäki and Mr Paloniemi for their excellent contributions and to say precisely that this would be a place for overall consideration and that we could recognise together here that additional resources are needed. When we do reform, we do it properly and at the same time give culture and art the opportunities it deserves. I myself, President-in-Office, would have liked to make a wish that it would have been a good thing to have had the Minister present. We could have discussed this important state aid reform situation and its future a little further. In the Committee on Finance, we have studied this issue in the Education and Science section both in the spring and in the autumn. Among other things, Mr Paloniemi is also a member there, and we have already had this debate. In fact, last summer, when Parliament made its spending limits report in the Committee on Finance, even in the unanimous section, we also said that this state aid reform is extremely important and should now consider explicitly the overall resource that is needed for it, because everyone knows that it will not work out as it is, because it needs an additional resource. It is quite clear that we cannot start with solutions such as what might then have to be done, what came out of the working group — fortunately, there were differing opinions there, that it would then be taken away from one actor, even if the operating conditions and thus the scarce resources were distributed — but it would be with extra rain, and many arguments can be found. It is precisely through the importance of its culture, through its contribution to strengthening its well-being, and also through its clearly increasing resources for regional economies and also by improving employment. So everybody wins: here's the win-win situation, so no one loses. I would like to mention here that, in time, when I was familiar with a number of assessments of the significance of culture specifically to regional economies, a study carried out by Pirfest ry, the festival of Pirkanmaa, for example, showed that it was a festival and so on. the cultural offering which took place in the Pirkanmaa region in that year, when examined, brought more than 200 million more to the regional economy. So it's worth the effort. I also remember some key figures on how many euros to bring to the entire regional economy, for example, every museum visitor. So it is really important to note all of these, and I really hope for success in thinking that culture will receive more money. When it comes to museums, I would like to stress that I also want to put a hat on the great museum offering that is in our country, and I hope for an even better future for it. There in Tampere we also visited a couple of museums with the Department of Education and Science. We went to the Moomin Museum and Vapriikki, and I can say that both are extremely important to our regional economy in Pirkanmaa, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u161	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 12. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u162	Mr President! The government proposes to replace the current 1992 law. The aim is to ensure that the legislation is consistent with the cultural practices of municipalities today. The background is a change in the municipal field and cultural life. The law gives the cultural activities of municipalities a framework law which defines the objectives of cultural activities and the tasks of the state authorities and the municipality. These criteria also affect the granting of State funding. The proposal does not increase state spending and does not change the responsibilities of municipalities and the state in cultural policy. The general objective of the reform is to strengthen the ability of municipalities to organise their cultural activities in the way they see fit. Mr President! Arts and culture play an important role in the vitality and well-being of municipalities. The importance of education and culture will be emphasised after the regional and social reform, as municipalities will become more of a supporter of vitality. The new proposal strengthens the ability of municipalities to organise cultural activities as they see fit. This enables a unique local cultural activity, which diversifys the cultural and artistic offering of the whole country. In some parts of Finland, it may mean young people practicing folk tales, for example, in another place. People are very interested in culture and art. According to a study by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, 46 per cent of Finns had used cultural services in the last 12 months. It is estimated that some 18,000 cultural events are organised annually in municipalities. We representatives know, especially during the summer months, how many events there will be in Finland during the summer, as well as other events where it would be good for the representative to be available to the public. The central government share includes 209 municipal art institutions. However, there are differences in access to and use of cultural services. In urban areas, 90% of people feel that cultural services are sufficient, compared with 65 in rural areas. The cultural agenda of the city centre highlights the importance of bringing art and culture closer to people. During this parliamentary term, the government's top project has been the extension of the so-called percentage principle to performing art. For example, music and theatre are brought to nursing homes, kindergartens and schools. The extension of basic art education has also received additional funding. The regional availability of arts and culture services should be improved by, for example, increasing cooperation between municipalities. It would also be desirable to increase cooperation with third sector actors in order to organise artistic and cultural services. Indeed, not all activities need to be organised by municipalities themselves, as third-sector actors have a huge potential for many kinds of expertise. In conclusion, cultural activities aimed at children and young people form the basis for all culture and art. The centre sees the importance of increasing resources for basic art education and club activities, for example. It would be nice for schools, for example, to have equal access to physical and artistic lessons.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u163	Mr President! In my previous speech, I have already talked a lot about the importance of culture in general and I am not going to repeat it in a few minutes' time, but I could also say in this section that it is very advantageous, overall, for all the actions, that both the state and the municipalities are aware of the importance of culture and are prepared to invest in it, and that in the municipalities too, the small money that goes into culture can be found to be secured and not to imagine that, by saving the finances of its municipalities, too, even a small amount of effort can then bring more vitality. I welcome the fact, President, that this percentage principle has also been considered in relation to the key project. We have also heard from the Section for Education and Science about the leading project in Pirkanmaa, for example. It's really great work done there. All in all, the fact that we are able to promote the cooperation of art institutions, cultural institutions, for example, with services for the elderly, kindergartens, everyone, is also important from the point of view of improving the situation that these children, the elderly and every single person have the right to culture. I also attach great importance to all the activities we can do in areas such as residential areas, suburbs, so that the culture is closer to the inhabitants. In the last period, for example, some criteria for grants were slightly emphasised in that direction, that culture and art were accessible and accessible to all. These weights were increased precisely because culture is the right of all. It's such a great thing that everyone should have a chance to enjoy it. I welcome, for example, the emphasis on children's culture, and what better way to go than the fact that, for example, even at the age of day-care, a small child can get involved with culture. As part of these cultural activities in Pirkanmaa, among other things: In time, I visited Lempäälä, where there was a wonderful experience that the artist came to the day care centre. Then I heard some good feedback from the children who were very excited that since the artist will be coming again the next time, because we will be able to paint and draw again with him, and also the staff there at the kindergarten told me that the working day is much more comfortable and that the working day will contribute to that art and creativity and culture will be there on the spot. In other words, I think that any such promotion is also very important and I would like to see a positive look at it in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u164	Mr President! Inspired by Mr Mattila's fine speech, I wanted to comment on this legislation and on Mr Mattila's speech. It is indeed important for the centre to have a culture close to itself and the regions, and in this way we can guarantee the preservation of the most distinctive culture. It is wonderful to hear very wild ideas when you go around in those provinces. There is a fairy-tale brush and has been heard since the larynx, there is a tractor jazz, evenings arranged by the Suovanlahti Sonni Association or song students from abroad who then hold a final concert in the parish. I think it's important that cultural funding also accepts that all events need not be huge, but that funding could then get like a little smaller events, because it makes our lives rich in Finland as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u165	Mr. Speaker! I am really sorry that the Minister of Responsibility is not here, but if he had been here, I would have liked to ask him certain questions about the state of basic art education: does he see the current situation as satisfactory as to whether there is any room for development and whether, in his view, the resources allocated to basic art education and clubs are sufficient at the moment? And also, when I come from that north, so I have this idea that these subsidies are not really distributed fairly, and it would have been interesting to hear the Minister's response to regional equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u166	Mr President! The accessibility of art and culture can also be promoted by these existing art institutions. For example, when I came to Helsinki by plane, I met the director of Jyväskylä Symphony. He explained that Jyväskylä Symphony is again going on a week tour of the province, smaller cities, and it is free of charge to organise concerts and meetings with local actors. It did not even want any compensation, precisely because the cultural resources of the municipalities are quite small. In my opinion, this kind of activity, including the movement of theatres, travelling in a small way, is the promotion of the accessibility of culture and art.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u167	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time limit, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda is the 13th item.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-23-ps-105.u168	Mr President! Our committee has often discussed the fact that, when technology is available, things should be done in the most modern way possible, so that we can save administrative costs and also ease the burden on the farmer. So we have often thought about it and suggested to the Ministry that on-the-spot controls should, as far as possible, be turned to the exploitation of modern IT equipment from the very point of view of smartphones. I am therefore very grateful that this has now been taken on board in the Ministry and that new technologies — satellite images, unmanned aircraft and spatial photographs — can be used for monitoring in the future. This will save farmers a number of working days and help us reduce administrative costs. The second big thing, of a reasonable size in this proposal, is that red tape should also be removed as regards the definition of an active farmer. There, at the end of the EU, there has been a ban list of people or organisations who could not obtain agricultural aid when they own, for example, manna or golf courses or so on, and I am pleased that such vanity is now being removed. If there is proper cultivation, it is no matter what else such a person owns. But to this very same point, I would like to point out that, when the new agricultural legislation of the European Union is negotiated later on, we must take seriously the definition of an active farmer in which every farmer would have to receive agricultural income, for example, in a three-year period. It is of no use to us to provide support for things that do not add value. I hope that this too will eventually go to the finish line.
