ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u1	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u2	Madam President! I think, or at least I hope, that many of us have a driving force, a goal that has led us to become Members of Parliament. My main goal is to export agriculture in Finland and in the world in order to remember not only agribusiness but also to preserve nature. Food safety is not a matter of course, but a result of the long-term work carried out by many parties. Genetic engineering cannot be regarded as an extension of conventional plant breeding because it moves across species. The health effects of genetic modification have been examined mainly by those who have produced the products themselves. This is not in line with good scientific practice. Genetically modified plants are not undisputedly safe, but there are also researchers who warn against the dangers of genetic modification to the environment and to man. Genetics may carry more information than the desired qualities. There are also risk factors in technology itself, the effects of which may only be reflected in the long-term by means of genetic modification. The big companies are talking about money, but we must not make politics merely as a continuation of the market economy. For example, gm processor Monsanto produces genetically modified plants that can tolerate the herbicides they produce themselves, mainly the otherwise deadly glyphosate of all vegetation. This is a completely unhealthy cycle. World food production is slipping under the control of these only twenty supranational companies, which often produce both seed and pesticides. Leftovers keep their genetically modified products safe, but there are warning statements from all over the world. The fear is that the pursuit of profit will drive food production past all other goals. I'm not against genetic research, but we can't be naive. In fact, as a student of plant breeding myself, I believe that resources should be allocated to objective genetic modification research. What, then, is presented in this bill? The proposal proposes a law to introduce national arrangements to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of GMOs. The law would also provide for supervision of national arrangements. Establish a procedure for limiting or prohibiting the cultivation of an organism in the whole or part of the country. The prohibition criteria should be compatible with EU law, justified, proportionate and non-discriminatory, and should also be based on compelling reasons such as environmental policy objectives, planning, land use, socio-economic impacts, etc. The spread of GMOs across borders to neighbouring Member States must also be prevented. Provision is also made for authorities and supervision. Now is the time to create rules for genetically modified cultivation and the possibility of abstaining from it. Farmers are now in a tight economic situation and are sensitive to openings that could improve the economic situation. The big companies will speak this language of money and will certainly try the first players with cheap seeds and so on, but the advantage will be short-lived once the dependency relationship has been established. Nowhere on earth has the farmer really received economic benefits from genetically modified plants. The benefit goes to these companies. The result is that the multinational giants roll the profits, but the risks are common to all. This is not the way it should be. On the contrary, we must do everything in our power to protect those who could still do business in the future with clean and high-quality food. It will be the advantage of Finland’s clean nature and our small country. In fact, I see an unprecedented opportunity in Finland: food purchased in China, for example, must be free from genetic modification. Less than a kilo of GM-free oat flakes are costing an online store in Amazon at £13. Why would there not be products in these markets in Finnish regions certified to be gm-free, just as pure gluten-free cereals already do business around the world? Desires and actions must go from the bottom up, and this should be encouraged. MTK associations could process throughout the winter whether they would like their keeper to be able to continue to produce GM-free. After decisions, regional associations could declare their province free of genetic modification, declaring that sustainable agricultural and forestry production in our province is encouraged and that genetically modified plants are incompatible with our regional strategy. For the benefit of the Finns, we hope that we will have as many of these gm-free provinces as possible. As a joint effort by the province, access to the international food market would be easier for individual companies. Therefore, the State could support food marketing through a special package to promote quality food marketing. — Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u3	Mr President! This proposal provides for the possibility of restricting or prohibiting the cultivation of GMOs in the area. This trend is justified, for many countries have come as a surprise to see how challenging it is to separate the cultivation of ordinary varieties and genetically modified products. Genetically modified products may be an important addition to feeding the growing population in the future, while agricultural land is disappearing as a result of climate change. However, it is not yet the time. There is currently too little researched information on genetically modified products. Low knowledge is also reflected in opinions. There is at least no support for the use of genetically modified products among Finns. A fair majority of Finns are opposed to genetic modification. Genetically modified products are not valued internationally either, but are precisely considered cheap. Purity and naturality are the competitive advantages of our food production, which we should stick to. Clean food we also want to give to our children. Mr President! This proposal is a balanced whole, leaving the door open for further development as more information becomes available. The proposal has no economic impact on our farmers. It also provides an important opportunity for further research into genetically modified products.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u4	Mr President! After all, in the context of the EU law now being implemented nationally by this government proposal, there are EU countries and quite a few regions in the EU countries that have wanted to ban the cultivation of genetically modified plants in their territories, and this EU regulation now makes it possible to do so. The fact that most of the research carried out to assess the safety of genetically modified plants is in the hands of companies that have developed these products has already been mentioned in previous speeches. Ten years ago, in December 2008, the EU Environment Council unanimously adopted a position on how to develop the safety assessment of genetically modified plants. Among other things, it contained a point that the raw data on which the assessment is made should also be open to independent researchers, that it would not only be a trade between this company and the EU Commission and the EU Food Safety Agency, but also that safety should be examined in a broader way, including the impact on local nature, for example now, even though the effects of glyphosate-resistant varieties, which naturally involve greater use of glyphosate, have an impact on local nature. This type of supplementation to safety assessments is needed, and I understand that not all of these requirements of the Environment Ministers have yet been implemented. Mr President! Last but not least, I would like to say that, now that this government proposal gives the authorities the possibility of such a national or regional ban, I would also like to see citizens and non-governmental organisations given the opportunity to initiate such an issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u5	Madam President! Just as Mr Hassi said earlier, this is the background to the EU directive, which takes into account the fact that there are indeed many countries and regions in the EU that have wanted to ban the cultivation of these GMOs. Austria, for example, has taken this decision for a long time and years ago. I am sure that this was given a boost in time by the fact that we were in trade negotiations, and when the TTIP agreement there at some point was haunted by the background and, of course, the pressure in the EU to market more seedlings, plants, seeds and others, for example, genetically modified plants, seeds and so on, I am sure that this helped to speed up the fact that there was a desire to have this legislation in place, which means that it is possible to ban the cultivation of these GMOs. Of course, it is important that in Finland, too, we have this kind of decision-making mechanism ready, and in that sense it would be difficult at the time when any such product would be offered, to go and make such a decision-making mechanism. In that sense, it makes sense that this form of decision-making should also be reflected in this same government proposal. However, as has been said here in several speeches, there are great risks to the cultivation of these GMOs and we may not have enough information on these matters. These are not commercially cultivated in Finland. For example, at the University of Joensuu, there is birch, where the pollen feature is absent. It's grown in this kind of research. But there are indeed many products in which different protection areas and protection zones and their consideration are extremely important, whether it is research or otherwise. Of course, for these organisms in particular, this information should be objective. Years ago, a disaster is remembered for a product called tryptophan when a slight change in this tryptophan caused it to become a life-threatening product for man. In that sense, we are dealing with risk factors for which there should definitely be more objective research, and we have already mentioned, among other things, Monsanto, which, by its own actions, has created a shadow for all this genetically modified commercial production.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u6	Madam President! There is only one thing to agree with. But when I know that Mrs Kalmari, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, is, I could say, a champion of resistance to genetically modified organisms and has brought it up very well, I would like to point out that, in my own view, as long as there is no such study of what it is, I would not want — although I understand, of course, that this regional decision-making is now to be included — in any way that we could have this matter in order for the provinces to decide independently in the future. It would be a false path, because we cannot know without researched information on how these pollinate. Is that the border of the province? It is a geographical boundary between farms, and it is a risk that we will then lose in Finland in such a way that if a province approves and someone does not, we will be expelled. Let us keep this whole in our national hands and let us be on this line that we are not going to accept it until we really have objective research on it. But what that objective research knowledge is, then perhaps it is worth discussing in the EU and Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u7	Madam President! Insufficient food production has led to several food crises in the 2010s alone, where large numbers of consumers may have received something other than what has been labelled on the packaging of finished products for years, and one part of this problem is genetically modified plants, which are used for both feed production and human consumption. I asked written questions about genetically modified products in 2011 and 2013 and received good answers stating that legislation was on the way. However, it is worrying — as the European Federation for Feed says — that 85% of factory feed in Western Europe contains genetically modified materials. And it would be very important for products and gene food to bear a record of that origin. Genetically modified means that the animal, plant or bacterium has been altered, and in that sense we are dealing with very serious and important issues. In 2011, the press also reported that about 15 per cent of all imported soya came to feed in Finland. I don't know what's going on right now. But keep Finnish food production and feed clean. I think that this bill is very much to be welcomed, and that is good. It is important that the opinions of the rapporteurs are also taken into account. Biotechnical research and field trials, among other things, are being raised here; they must not be jeopardised. And then the other was Evira's comments: they are concerned that the planned tasks should be reconsidered, because Evira has no competence and expertise to assess the reasons on which the restriction or ban is based, that is to say, to take into account all the issues and thus to get this important issue carried forward, that the spread of foreign species to Finland and elsewhere is also extremely dangerous. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u8	Mr President! As has already been mentioned here, it is a question of measures under the EU directive in Finnish legislation. After all, there is very strict GM legislation in the European Union, but this will give even more freedom to the way in which this directive is applied in the Member States. In other words, as has been pointed out, Member States can ban this GM farming. However, I myself have some doubts as to how such regional powers could be given. This so-called coexistence, i.e. how gene-free production and gene production could coexist in such a way that these contaminations do not occur, is extremely difficult to organise. That is why, if this is to be considered, these issues should be clarified very carefully, because then this would become, as it were, snow legislation, unless this point is really clear. Personally, I prefer the fact that, at the moment, when we do not have any commercial cultivation in genetic modification, we should not have it in the future either. In my opinion, increasing organic production is in every way a good direction for Finnish food production. It is the area where we can also take export profits with our own clean, good food, provided that they are what they promise. In this context, attention must also be paid to the protection of biodiversity. Since agriculture makes land available and even a very one-sided use, care must be taken to ensure that, as far as possible, these biodiversity issues are also on the table. But, overall, I welcome this proposal and I hope that this will lead to a trend in Finland that will strengthen our agricultural production and, in particular, our export efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u9	Madam President! The government's proposal on this issue is very good, and this gmo issue must be dealt with here and now, and not in such a way that we will, as it were, gradually ban it some time later in the future. It is not worth doing that, because it must be remembered that the gmo plant which comes to Finland and which is cultivated immediately leaves during the pollination period to spread that new genetic heritage around Finland. And precisely, as Mrs Myllykoski said just now, there should be accurate research. In the pollination phase, when the plant has spread its modified heritage around Finland, wherever it goes — what happens after that — it is not controlled by man. In this regard, I think it would be worthwhile for everyone to take a moment to think about whether it is a good idea to go along with this, because Finnish agricultural products, Finnish soil, Finnish water and climate are very clean, which gives us the opportunity to produce excellent quality organic products on the market. If we ruin that reputation by taking this gmo stamp on our foreheads, then then we'll be in trouble when we don't have this chance anymore. We're gonna lose one huge selling power. Fortunately, this bill, which has now been brought to this Parliament by the government, provides legal means to prevent it. It is also worth pointing out that the European Union, when issuing a marketing authorisation for a product — this law clearly states that we cannot use those grounds for marketing authorisation as grounds for prohibition, but we must then use other criteria, even if agricultural policy criteria, for example, allow us to ban the spread of GM stocks here. This is so serious, because after the Pandora’s box has been opened and the modified genetic heritage of some plant has been distributed to Finland, there is no way to get it back. I hope that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry will now take a very thorough look at this issue, and I believe that this will be the case. But the aim must be to keep Finland free from such phenomena and to preserve the market power that the clean Finnish agriculture still has.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u10	Madam President! There have been speeches here which show that there is a great deal of consensus on the proposal, and I personally think it is wise that this option of restrictions is now being imposed. However, I drew attention to the fact that the opinions were not so unanimous. Important contributors have also made critical comments on this. Concerns have been expressed that the profitability of Finnish production and the livelihood of farmers are being jeopardised, and this has been questioned, inter alia, because of the state of the art of plant breeding techniques or the political nature of these restrictions. For example, MTK has stated that restrictions should not be imposed at national level that could undermine the profitability of Finnish production and proposed the creation of an effective co-existence provision. Similarly, the Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry at the University of Helsinki is concerned if genetically modified plant breeding is placed in a different position compared to other plant breeding techniques. I therefore think that it is worth carefully consulting the various experts in committee and, in particular, the views of researchers, for example, on how safe and possible such a working coexistence provision would be proposed by the MTK. In any case, from this proposal, it does not in itself have any direct impact on farmers, consumers or research and it is very good that this directive is being put into effect here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u11	Mr President! About ten years ago, I tried to bring this same legislation into the house, but there was not yet a willingness to do so. In that sense, it is now extremely good that these so-called rules of the game are being obtained, because it is a question of having to have rules of the game if there is a need for them. On that too, I agree that we need these rules of coexistence and, above all, research into the extent to which distances must be drawn from the fact that the so-called pollution does not occur. Of course, that's the job we have to do. But the consumer must always have the right to know what he eats, and there will be labelling on it, and that label will have to be on it in the future, if we are to have such food elsewhere, this issue is definitely on the table. That is something that needs to be taken care of at the end of the EU, because, globally, these foods are moving, and then it is quite possible that our shops will find products that also include gmo. The chairman of the committee said here that the provinces could start declaring themselves gmo-free. I think the industry has already caught up with this. After all, we have seen and know from advertisements how certain meat industry companies have come to the conclusion that their production does not use gmo meat, where the animal has been grown with gmo feed, and demand a commitment from their producers to do so. I think this is the right way. Cooperation will then take place with the producer who can ensure that no GM feed is included. I am more confident that these companies will do the work. I have no objection to a regional declaration either, but I believe that a more effective one is that there are companies that honor this and ensure that it is put into practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u12	Mr President! The directive to be implemented will therefore allow Member States to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified plants approved for cultivation in the EU at national level. The law establishes a decision-making mechanism for genetically modified plants that may be cultivated and provides for monitoring of national arrangements. The law is intended to enter into force from the beginning of next year. The Act lays down procedures for Finland to restrict the cultivation of genetically modified organisms at national level, either by requiring adaptation of the cultivation of the GMO or by establishing national restrictions and/or prohibitions. A Member State may require that the geographical scope of the authorisation be adapted to exclude the whole or part of the territory of that Member State from cultivation. If part were to be excluded from cultivation, I do not think this would be right. If no adjustment to the scope has been required or the applicant has not agreed to it, a Member State could restrict or prohibit the cultivation of a specific GMO in the whole or part of the territory. The restriction or prohibition of cultivation should be made by a decision that is justified and must not conflict with a joint EU risk assessment. The grounds for refusal could not be justified on grounds of safety or health, since safety for humans, animals and the environment has already been a prerequisite for authorisation at the time of granting the permit for cultivation. The grounds for refusal should be compatible with EU law, justified, proportionate and non-discriminatory, and should also be based on compelling reasons. Examples of prohibitions include environmental policy objectives, planning, land use, socio-economic impacts, the avoidance of presence of GMOs in other products and agricultural policy objectives. A measure aimed at preventing the spread of the genetically modified organism in neighbouring Member States is not proposed as Finland's only land border with another EU Member State is the border with Sweden from Tornio to Kilpisjärvi. The area in question is low in cultivation and there are no crops close to the border. There is currently no commercial cultivation of GMOs in Finland. Furthermore, there are currently no genetically modified food on the Finnish market. Genetically modified soya represents just over half of the imported feed soya, about 79 million kilos in 2015. There are no crops suitable for cultivation or interest in Finland in the application procedure in the EU, so the cultivation of GMOs is not expected to be a topical issue for us in the near future. As regards the impact of the law, the authorities would be affected by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Finnish Food Authority and the National Board of Genetic Engineering. The decision to restrict or prohibit cultivation would be largely political in nature and therefore the power to decide would be conferred on the Government. The effects of the restriction or ban would be on individual farmers who would like to cultivate the plant in question. The financial costs of the proposal would mainly be borne by the authorities. However, the cost increases would be small. Finally, Mr President, I personally hope that there will be no GM farming targets in our country, nowhere in my mind, but I believe that we will still have great opportunities in the future, because today we will have organic and clean food. And I hope that we will all agree on this now and also in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u13	Mr President! To begin with, this bill is very much to be welcomed. Genetic modification in the Finnish economy should not take place at all. When it comes to artificial influence on natural development, it is not good. And what has been said here about parallel cultivation of gmos and conventionals, too, is not realism. Monsanto is indeed a familiar name when it comes to gmo production. In the U.S., GM production has already gone out of control. Many farmers do not want to be part of it at all, but there is really no going back. Food produced in Finland is very clean, good, and this is the advantage of the future, including in terms of foreign and Finnish exports. Animal welfare in production, respect for the environment in production, ethics in general, and also the freedom of gmo are the things that consumers will certainly appreciate, both at home and abroad. But will it appear today and in the future in the purse of a Finnish producer? That is not the case. If we want our food production to continue, even at the current level, there must be rapid changes. And, as we have said recently, the trade is the one that takes the biggest slice, and from it one could assume that the part that goes into the trade would be delivered directly to the producer by a larger slice. When schools and agencies decide what food is offered and used — whether local food is used — they should think more than just a price: the quality of food and the health qualities that good food will bring in the future. They're really important things. We should look to the future and use domestic local food also in the agencies. There is no good news of what gmo would bring now, except that production volumes are high. Therefore, when we consider our own farmers and also consider our country to be a gmo-free country, I also think, and the Finns of Peru think that it is the future and very important both for each of our citizens and for our exports.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u14	Madam President! Now that the minister is in the box, I would like to say a warm thank you for having this legislation here. This has been a very good debate, and when, for example, both Mrs Myllykoski and Mrs Myller raised the word of the province of my message with a little horror, I myself thought it would be all the same to me if it were regional decision-making or whether it was all Northern Finland or even the whole of Finland, but I thought it would be good if it was a state of will to brand a province or region to go from the bottom up, so that it could be used better in marketing. There may be difficulties in marketing with co-existence, even if the space is free from genetic modification, as is my own. Of course, contract production can contribute to this, but I still think that in marketing this would be a pretty good export advantage, just as pure oat production today is really valuable exports compared to normal oats. Kinnusen Mylly at Utajärvi has invested 9.5 million in the export market alone, and as I mentioned, for example, this Amazon and at what price are oat products free of genetic modification sold, I can see that we should take a slice of this in Finland. And let me remind you that the situation is now that all the varieties that have been approved in the EU are completely free to use in Finnish cultivation. Now there are no rules.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u15	Mr President! I think it is very important that each country has as much opportunity as possible to decide for itself how it views and regulates genetic modification and genetically modified production in its own territory. Few things divide as much consumers, producers and experts as the attitude towards the use of genetic engineering in food production. Some experts in the field also see great opportunities in gmo. For example, the hope is to improve the competitiveness of food production in northern conditions. Even the possibility of combating global hunger has been raised. Some see that there is too little research and experience on the consequences of the exploitation and exploitation of gmo, so that large-scale exploitation can also take place in Europe, as has already been said in many speeches. Representative Hassi raised the connection between gmo and glyphosate. This withdrawal is apt in that, for example, there are no large-scale long-term studies approved by the EU, despite the large-scale cultivation of varieties in North America, for example. So I think it is a good idea for both sides to respect the principle of prudence and to define decisions and retain the power of decision at national level. Mr President! But now that the use of gmo technology is already quite extensive in the world and has been able to reduce production costs in countries whose producer prices directly affect the price that a farmer in Finland can obtain from his own gmo-free products, I cannot help but point out that, especially for all those who do not want to produce gmo in Finland, they must now be prepared to pay a higher price for the cleanest food produced in Finland. I say this because it is not going to be the way it is now: Finland all too often wants the quality of Finland but the price of the world market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u16	And Mr Hassi, then the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u17	Mr President! I would like to add a little bit to what Mr Anttila said above. After all, it has been over ten years since several large Finnish meat producers announced that they would start using genetically modified feed, and then opinion polls showed that a large proportion of Finns would like to eat meat, eggs and dairy products produced without gm feed. At that time a few officials from the Ministry said that Finland could not do such a national ban, EU legislation hindered. Well, it wasn't as black-and-white as it was then. In Germany, for example, consumers' desire to obtain animal products not produced with gm feed was so strong that Germany drew up a national law on the conditions under which the product may be called gm-free. As such, I welcome this point, which Mr Anttila also said, that we have meat houses that say that they do not accept meat that has been grown with gm feed, but we do not have any legislation on the way in which this is checked, which criteria really need to be met in order to get it to be called gm-free. In Germany this kind of legislation has been in place for some years now, and I still think that this is something that could be considered in Finland too, whether this is left to the conscience of these producers alone, that they are honest with what they tell consumers and what they say in the contracts, or whether some regulations are also laid down on what conditions. We also have organic regulations, which conditions must be fulfilled in order to be able to call it organic. And I would also like to mention that the promises about gm plants are often very beautiful about overcoming world hunger, about more vitamin-rich rice, about drought-resistant varieties and so on. Despite these beautiful speeches, which have been heard for decades in themselves, the overwhelming majority of these gm plants are resistant to glyphosate or produce the insecticide itself, or plants with both of these characteristics.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u18	There were two replies, Mr Anttila and Mr Kalmari. Let us take them and then just the Minister, but then let us go to the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u19	Mr President! To Mr Hassi, all I have to say is that this is contract production and the industrial plant has every right to check where the feed has come from and what it has been. But I do know that a considerable part of it today — because it is very expensive to use industrial feed — also refines the production of its own field into pig feed, for example, if we are talking about pork. Then it's quite clear that there's no gmo in it. But it's perfectly verifiable. Then the question of whether legislation is being adopted: it is worth considering, because in a certain way it would then provide a legal basis for it. I understand that. But that is also the way it works, because an industrial company requires its producers to act, and producers also regularly train and associate with them. It has staff who visit farms for inspection purposes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u20	Madam President! Mrs Anttila responded precisely to what I wanted to say. It is true that contract production defines the conditions and always controls contract production in such a way as to ensure that these conditions are fulfilled. But with regard to what Mr Viljanen raised there, I hope that every single one of us will remember: quality is not available for free. You must be prepared to pay for Finnish quality if you want to keep it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u21	And then the minister, five minutes. If necessary, there will be more time, but start with 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u22	Madam President! Excellent, well-founded speeches have been made by honourable Members. I also consider this to be a good starting point for the handling of this new law here in Parliament. But just a few more words about those basics, then a little bit about the effects. Indeed, this is now the implementation of the directive, and it would also provide for the control of restrictions and prohibitions. This law would now describe the procedure by which restrictions can be enforced. There are two options. Firstly, a specific area or the whole country, as has been mentioned here, may be excluded from the scope of authorisation during the authorisation procedure by a decision of the Government. The second option: cultivation can be restricted or banned after authorisation and again by Government decision. So behind the Government's decision, behind the lock, these things. The ban may therefore apply to a particular region or to the whole country. Both options, whether used or not, would be preceded by a Community consultation, an assessment of the impact of the decision and, of course, negotiations between stakeholders and public authorities. The limitation criteria are not limited but may relate, for example, to environmental, forestry or agricultural policy, land use, the socio-economic impact of farming or the risk of mixing products. The criteria for limiting cultivation shall not relate to the health, safety or environmental effects of the plant. These elements have already been examined during the authorisation process. And, of course, when these restrictions can be imposed, they can also be lifted. Then, President, a word about the effects. It is a matter of power of regulation. After all, the law itself does not change anything. Now, as many of you have said, we are building a system for the future. This law does not apply to agricultural testing activities but to commercial farming and home gardeners. And for those limitations: Of course, the effects of the restrictions on cultivation will also extend to freedom of trade. That is why decisions are taken at Government level and, in these cases too, the draft is asked for the opinion of the Constitutional Committee. Then, President-in-Office, a few words on the other issues raised. Here Mr Hassi and some others raised the question of whether we are justified in creating rules of the game through the law on how to distinguish it from the normal gmo. We have other ways. Contract production has already been mentioned here, which is an important part of it. We also have issues of origin marking that can ensure that. That is why we in the government have also wanted to extend the requirement of origin so that consumers genuinely know what they are choosing. It's obvious. It is important to note here, for example, that we have different ways of using glyphosate or elsewhere. In part of Europe, it is forced to fire, we do not. This is one of the most important differences that we have. This is also a question of justice, as some Members have raised here, and this is also part of a fairer, fairer food market. So when we produce these things without our own food, we will not be able to compete with the countries that have adopted the means for which we are now creating the rules of the game. Therefore, the fairer functioning of the food market is crucial to the concern you all expressed in your speeches, namely the profitability of Finnish agriculture, the future of Finnish food production.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u23	Madam President! I'm actually a minister. Inspired by the speech of the rest, I would now like to ask you a bit of a pro-active question. If we think that we have certain protection zones in the provinces, whether in terms of gmo and so on, could it be possible for the Council of State, in relation to farms close to our border, to make a provision that there should be no agricultural activity in this region — if, for example, on the Swedish or Norwegian borders, there should be GM-free cultivation? What chance do we have of securing that national GM-free zone by thinking, then, that it is the 50 km that would enable us to have a GM-free zone here in relation to the spread of that pollen? Have we considered this? This arose from the Minister's own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u24	Would the Minister like to respond to this immediately?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u25	Madam Speaker! This is a good question, and all in all we are constantly engaged in a dialogue with our neighbours on food safety, not only with the Nordic countries, of course, but also with Russia, and, as you all know, at the moment we may have one thing more than others there, especially with Russia, and it is African swine fever, and we are constantly updating that picture with the Russian authorities. The question of this area of pollination and its scope is certainly an issue which should be discussed at the latest at the time when the matter is being wallpapered or when it becomes a cultivated plant that could bring to it what Mrs Myllykoski said there. This is an interesting point, and I promise to raise this issue with my colleagues when we meet in that Council and otherwise we see how we have thought about this situation in other Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u26	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u27	Mr President! This government bill is necessary in itself, but I would like to have a broader debate on how to proceed when a company that causes environmental damage goes bankrupt, whether costs should always fall into the hands of taxpayers. After all, we have mines, many of which have been bankrupted by the company and then the taxpayers have had to pay a bill. What really surprised me most is that when Winterfell turned into Terrafame, then it was decided correctly in court that what was left of Winterfell was not responsible, because usually when the company was transferred, it would be handed over with its assets and liabilities and liabilities. I find it somewhat amazing that, for example, a mining company can continue to do so in such a way that it is not responsible for the environmental damage caused by the predecessor, but then goes to the State. But these were just such supplementary comments, Mr President, on what we should also be dealing with in addition to this government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u28	Madam President! The Government's proposal improves the ability of public authorities to intervene in dangerous situations when there is a risk of extensive pollution of nature which could cause damage to the environment and health. At present, an indirect administrative obligation is ineffective if the operator is unable to fulfil its obligations. This may be the case, for example, in the event of bankruptcy. In other words, once this government proposal has come into force, pollution can be avoided by increasing the powers of the authorities. Mr Hassi's discussion initiative on mine responsibilities after bankruptcy seems to me to be quite laudable, and in that sense it would have to be considered and considered in what way to ensure that cases such as Winterfell would not occur and that the right parties would then also be held responsible for these environmental violations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u29	Madam President! It is good to have a debate on this initiative and on this overall. Unfortunately, Mr President, that is not what I am saying. But now that we are talking about mines and responsibilities, it would be extremely important to have a debate on whether or not there is an overall liability insurance system in this area, too, within the framework of this law. For example, with regard to the Nivala mine, where mining was sold and after six months, the mine went bankrupt and the environmental responsibility had been passed on from the previous owner to the new owner, who went bankrupt, whether it was now 16 million, whatever it was, in any case, to society. When things like this happen, we should have some system by which we guarantee that this sector itself will take its own steps to ensure that, through a kind of insurance system, they can bring credibility to the effect that, in the event of possible environmental damage, it is not the responsibility of society, but the operator itself and the industry itself would assume its responsibility, and they would sort of clean up what they have messed up. This is an important debate, and I do not think there is any reproach in this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u30	Mr President! Thus, the Environmental Protection Act introduces a provision on the competence of state control authorities to take the necessary measures to prevent and limit pollution. This applies to situations where there is a serious risk or threat to health and the environment. The authority would not be able to take action that is part of the rescue action under the Rescue Act. Practice has shown that the current powers of the authorities are insufficient to ensure the implementation of the necessary health and environmental protection measures in serious danger situations, particularly where the responsible party is insolvent, unknown or unreachable. The main rule would continue to be that the Authority, in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act in force, would urge and, where appropriate, oblige the operator or other responsible party to fulfil its obligations to prevent or limit pollution. In the event of this failure to fulfil its obligations, the order could be enhanced by a penalty payment, a penalty payment or suspension. Measures under the new provision could be taken if the implementation of the measures could not be ensured in the ordinary administrative procedure or the responsible party could not be identified. The costs incurred by the authorities would be recovered ex post from the person who would have been obliged to take action. However, it is not possible to guarantee the recovery of the funds, since in these situations the person responsible for the measures is generally either insolvent, unknown or unreachable. Mr President! In the first amending budget of 2013, the State, following the bankruptcy of the company producing industrial fibres, reserved for the disposal of an explosive sulphur storage facility. The total cost then reached about 5 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Talvivaara Sotkamo Oy, the State has financed with significant amounts the necessary measures for environmental safety. The total costs incurred by the State by August 2017 rose to around EUR 120 million, of which approximately 90 per cent was related to the prevention of environmental damage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u31	Madam President! It is a good thing in itself that this amendment to the Environmental Protection Act is made in such a way as to prevent major environmental damage. For example, if you notice a big problem, even now in a factory, that there is going to be some huge damage, then it can be addressed. Of course, the legislation has to be in order. However, I would like it to be clear that the operator involved in the industrial activity is responsible for the environmental risks it poses. And, of course, the Finnish licensing process and supervision cause the possibility of a major disaster to be very small, virtually impossible in most activities. For example, the mines today, when they work, the sampling works well. And, of course, if a company goes bankrupt, then it is a separate matter, but that is also what we have procedures for in this country. For example, even in the case of old service stations, in many cases when an entrepreneur has ceased operations or gone bankrupt, as has often been mentioned, the Oil Protection Fund has managed the contaminated soils. Then, if this operator does not have the money to pay those bills, I remember that in some cases it has remained the final expense of society. But, of course, the cause of the damage is always the principal bearer of responsibility. Of course, it should not be compromised, and that is what the law on damages says. But I am surprised at the fact that, in many cases, there is talk of environmental protection, that I read in the newspaper in the summer, that huge amounts of waste water have been discharged directly into the Gulf of Finland, for example, from the waste water treatment plant in Helsinki — huge amounts. I can't remember the cubic volume, but it was a huge amount. I haven't noticed so many articles about it in the papers. So, what, we're supposed to get involved? If you let a huge amount of it go straight to the beaches of Helsinki, right through the river to the Gulf of Finland, then is that not ruining the environment? And should someone interfere? I don't know. But in my opinion, it is worth noting that others are being punished and others are allowed to do what they want. You should be very careful about these. I understand the very good purpose of this law, which I strongly support. But when we start to figure out who's messing with nature, is that the granny of the cottage over there in Ilomantsi, who, in that water toilet, has to put 10,000 in those pipes when you can push millions of cubic metres of sewage directly into the Gulf of Finland? Now who's the bigger criminal on this one? In these matters, it is worth noting that the stick should not be used to point out those who are innocent and silently silence those who are guilty so that they are not even discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u32	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u33	Mr President! I would like to say a few words here in order to draw attention to the importance of the European Union's common environmental legislation. This is a matter of long-range transport in terms of sulphur, nitrogen, volatile organic compounds and ammonia, and now a new addition is made of fine particles. All in all, these are pollutants and emissions, air pollutants that do not know the borders of the country, and then there must be common operating rules on how to limit these air pollutants. This is not only about nature conservation and environmental protection, but also particularly about the protection of human health, because these compounds and air pollutants are responsible for hundreds of thousands of different respiratory diseases, which are then very costly to society. From Finland’s point of view, we are, as it were, a recipient here when the sources of these air pollutants are very much in that central Europe and Britain. As Finns, it is extremely important for us that we have common European rules on how to limit the generation of these pollutants at the place where these pollutants are born and thus ensure that as little of them as possible are transported all the way to Finland. This is a small cost of implementing this directive in Finland. They have not now been taken into account in this budget proposed by the government, and I really hope that this money will not be taken from the small environmental budget, but will then be adequately funded elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u34	Madam President! Mr Myller's speech made a few words about the remote landings that Mr Myller was talking about. In other words, Europe will have coal emissions with the winds when coal is burned, as is done in Germany or in Poland. I've always been a little alien to the criticism of other courtyards that it's untidy. Do you think you should start with cleaning your own yard first and stop burning coal in this town? Usually, the world’s improvement when you leave to improve your environment will produce the best results, and then it will be left second to caring for your neighbor. That there is a bit of polishing of our own shield in Finland, that we are going to tell you how to live in Germany or in Poland when we drive the coal ourselves from many countries on board, when by train, when by train. All over the world, coal is coming to us, I hear there's been a time when Colombia has come. There is obviously no Colombian coal coming to Finland at the moment, but there are still huge quantities, and that is what is being burned in this city and in many others, so that I would like to see some restraint from the representatives that we are going to show our neighbour when we ourselves have not been able to deal with it. And then if a person living in the countryside warms up the sauna and it becomes smoke and a small particle disturbs something, in that conversation too, I recommend a little restraint when burning that tree elsewhere, not just in Finland. But this problem of coal is such a problem that I do not think we are credible critics if we go to criticise the emissions that European coal-burners have caused us through remote deposition. I think there's a taste of a little piety in that conversation. The best way to improve the world is to start there — usually the best results.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u35	Mr President! When acid rains were at their worst and their effects were reflected, for example, in the defoliation of coniferous forests in Finland, i.e. the fact that coniferous trees had fewer needle-years than healthy forests, and small lakes began to have situations where lakes were so acidified that certain species of fish no longer lived in them, it was discovered that emissions causing acid rain, among other things, did not care about the borders of the states. There was also a situation in Finland at the time that about half of the sulphur and nitrogen deposition coming into Finland was from elsewhere and only half of the country, but Finland also then took about the same amount of its own emissions outside its own borders. It was then that this European cooperation was launched so that all countries would reduce their emissions, so that everyone would be involved in the clay from which everyone benefits, and we have really benefited greatly. Five years ago, the situation was that emissions of sulphur from land sources in Europe amounted to about a tenth of what they were in the '80s, but environmental health researchers still stress that we still have air pollution that affects human health and shorten life expectancy, cause lung diseases, but also cardiovascular diseases and, according to the latest studies, affect the brain. In other words, this is not only about our nature and the environment, but also about our health. As far as Helsinki coal is concerned, I am very pleased that the government has promised a bill which, according to the Government's promise, will soon enter Parliament, that coal burning in Finland will be banned from 2029.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u36	Mr President! Indeed, it is very important that we work together in Europe and that we make common European laws in order to reduce emissions in the regions where emissions are generated, so that long-distance transport is also restricted. Without joint decisions, we will not be able to deal with this European situation. It is quite clear that in those countries, in those regions where there is a more dense population and where there is a more polluting industry, there will also be more of these emissions, and there will also have to be able to take these restrictive measures. I personally welcome the fact that we have this common European legislation, which will then also help and support those regions which are the object of these long-distance transports.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-11-ps-81.u37	Madam President! Here, too, I think, as many have said, there is good European legislation, so we, together with the European countries, must take care of our air quality and also of other environmental issues. This is one of those easy things in which we have to work together. The first capping directive came at the beginning of the 21st century, and now we can bring this new capping directive into force in Finland. The impact assessment report has said that these new obligations will hardly increase Finland's targets, because we are already understated in this respect. However, I would see that we ourselves need to be pioneers here and tighten up our industry and not even our households, so that we can think about innovations in how to reduce emissions, because even in Finland this will certainly have major health effects, even though we still know very little about them.
