ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u2	Representative Rinne, Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u3	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, it has now become clear that the government's social welfare reform will not result in the savings the government has imagined, on the contrary, in increased costs. We have a need in many sectors to strengthen and develop people's services. Nevertheless, the government of the country at the mouth of Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo says that costs will be cut by force from the current level. This means that the availability and quality of services will be reduced, customer charges will rise or taxes will be significantly increased. So I ask you, Prime Minister Sipilä: when has it become clear to you that the government's social welfare reform has turned into a gigantic cutting-off measure, which will have to reduce the social and health services of Finns and reduce the network of establishments?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u4	Madam President! This reform will curb cost growth [Left: How?]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u6	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, I must say that you are speaking against your better knowledge. You speak against the facts and the views of the experts. The reform of the war is turning against its purpose. The narrowing of health inequalities is turning into more inequalities. Because of your social welfare model, services will be cut, customer fees will be increased and taxes will be tightened. Prime Minister, your social model is on a wobbly basis and endangering the services of Finns. Is it not time to focus on the real issue rather than on the political cow trade? Now we need the ability to understand the best interests of ordinary Finns and to believe in experts. Prime Minister Sipilä, when I say to you that we are taking enough time to correct the problems of your model, will you take this up?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u7	Madam President! Many experts have gone through these objectives of cost control, and the key message is that when we concentrate and do the implementation properly, this law provides a good basis for curbing costs of about 3 billion dollars. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Finance made a joint response to Mr StV yesterday, and in this reply all the details and all the concerns that Parliament has expressed during the process are well known in response to the questions you are now questioning. What matters now is that we take this reform to the end in peace and ensure that in every province the enormous work that is already being done in the provinces is supported in every way that we can achieve careful implementation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u8	Mr President! Why is the Ministry of Finance now only doing those calculations and not doing them when we in the Committee on Finance asked for them for months? The fact is that the figures came from the Ministry so foolish that the Committee on Finance refused to take them in its opinion even by a majority of government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u18	President! In other words, there are three main objectives in the war: freedom of choice, quality services and uninterrupted care chains, and lower costs. If now only two of these can be achieved — in fact, only two can be achieved — and if there is a broad freedom of choice and high-quality services, it wants to say that the state will be in debt. Now, if we really want to control the growth of that expenditure, we can only choose between wide choice or quality services. So, could we not choose the implementation of quality services and unbroken care chains and proceed with a limited model of freedom of choice on the basis of experiments, pilots and researched knowledge, and can we therefore reject this extensive exercise of freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u19	Mr President! Mr Vähämäki's listing of the objectives of the reform included just the many things we feel committed to in the big picture of the whole Parliament. Freedom of choice is about choice and increasing multi-production, that quality becomes a better focus in the production of services. And as far as your listing is concerned, can you choose services of a higher quality without freedom of choice? My own assessment is that, based on the current situation, there are currently not particularly many incentives in our current system that would attract or even force publicly funded services to place human needs, service guidance and care chains directly at the centre and core, but rather our system is based on sending away and sending the bill to the next one. This change is different
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u20	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to say that democracy and the rule of law are not nonsense, and I hope that the Prime Minister will be able to say here and now that the regional elections will be postponed. Secondly, I would like to ask the Prime Minister what figures and what concrete means are you going to base the calculation of the costs of the war? You have never been able to answer this question at any time, and the only attempt to answer this question was a memo from the first official of the Ministry of Finance, whose cotton candy numbers completely confuse the objectives and means. If the government or the Ministry of Finance cannot say anything concrete about the cost implications of the war, I will ask the Prime Minister how you can ask Parliament for an open social security check.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u21	Madam President! This Regional Organisation Act, which was given to Parliament more than a year ago, provides a justification for the savings of EUR 3 billion and what they are made of, and this has not changed at all along the way. You also asked about the impact assessments. More than 100 pages of impact assessments have been presented in this context. The impact assessments have also been carried out very carefully. And with regard to the timing of the regional elections: the most important thing now is that here in Parliament we carefully prepare the content and complete the parliamentary decision on the social reform and then assess in balance that we have enough time to prepare for the elections and to implement in the provinces. But the order is: first the content, and the timing of the elections is more then the technology, it will be given sufficient time to prepare for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u22	Mr President! This is a very serious issue. We are talking about social and health services that are important to all Finns. And when the Prime Minister said that we should not live in a bubble, I will ask what bubble the Prime Minister has been living in for the past week, when the Legislative Review Council explicitly stated that it is not even possible to assess the impact of this reform on the savings, which is the sign of the figures, whether it is plus or minus, and a large number of experts believe that, instead of making 3 billion savings, this will cost up to 3 billion. And what does this mean in the form now presented? However, you insist on this Article 6 of the Finance Act that, regardless of whether there is savings, you cut funding — so much so that it corresponds to the activities of all health centres in Finland and the care of the elderly in one year combined. That's how big the surgeries are.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u23	Madam President! First of all, it is worth noting that even in this basic government proposal, costs are estimated to increase, in real terms, by EUR 2 billion over a period of 10 years. So we are not cutting, we are curbing the increase in costs. That is what this is all about. And all expert assessments assume that there are risks involved. The implementation of all such major reforms always involves risks if implementation is not done properly, and we are in no way able to prevent these risks, but we must ensure that implementation is done carefully and properly and given enough time to do so. It is quite clear that there is enough potential for controlling costs, enough opportunities, when we simply give implementation adequate support from this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u24	Mr President! None of the expert opinions suggest that the government's objective of reducing the cost of EUR 3 billion could be achieved, at least without cutting services, reducing the network of services or increasing customer charges, and the government has not been able to demonstrate convincingly how savings could be achieved, as the integration of services in this government model will not be achieved. There was a reference to the Eksote model. There, cost-effectiveness is based on the integration of services, but the government model means that this integration will also have to be dismantled because of the need to introduce this market model and to differentiate between the organiser and the producer. So these functional integrated models, what's in Eksote, what's in Kainuu, have to be dismantled. In Kainuu, for example, it has been calculated that they will have to hire dozens of new officials to manage contracts, carry out controls,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u27	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to reiterate here that this government model is not cutting funding from the current level. Funding will increase in the coming decade. The question is how to cut this increase in costs. [ Hustles from the left] It is quite clear that, now that we look at the size, scope, system change of this reform, no one will be able to say exactly how much cost savings there will be. But then, from what Secretary of State Hetemäki has presented to the committees in his own memo, each of us understands that they are the right themes for the cost regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u28	Mr President! Is it not the case that, in the current situation, it is difficult to get to a public service doctor and that the services do not work as they should anyway? Is it not the case that the purpose of this reform is to ensure equal and functional services for the long future throughout Finland? [Left: That’s right!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u30	Mr President! That's right. Several comments in your speech, Mr Kaikkonen, were in line with the objectives of the reform. I will use my reply a little further to open up that theme, in which earlier questions covered the issue of the timing of the elections. I would like to remind you, for my part, why the regional elections are taking place. It is not essential to discuss the timing of such cases at the moment, when the parliamentary procedure is ongoing and very laborious for Parliament. We feel and worry and we realize that you are doing a lot of work in the house right now. It is a question in the regional elections that the Constitutional Committee's opinion required some years ago that such an important role — perhaps the most important public office on a scale for all Finns, to take care of our health and well-being — requires a governance structure in which the decision-makers are elected so that power and responsibility are transparent and transparent and in the same hands for the entire service system.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u31	Mr President, värderade talman! Prime Minister Sipilä, you have said today that the timing of the regional elections is only a technical issue which will be resolved once the social war laws have been concluded. The Prime Minister is certainly aware that Article 12 of the Act on Enforcement mentions the exact date of the first regional elections, 28.10. This year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u34	Madam President! The most important thing now is to get the content of the law and the timetable for the Parliament to complete it. We are well aware of what the Chancellor of Justice has said on this matter and how much time we need for the provinces to implement it, and then, in this framework, if the Parliament does not keep to its timetable, this matter will be discussed accordingly. But compared to how much reform this is about, how much substance does Parliament need to go before decisions are made, this is more technology to change, but of course it will be changed if necessary if necessary. But first we need to know when the law will be dealt with in this Chamber for the last time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u35	Mr President! I was a little confused about what the Prime Minister meant by that sentence. You referred to the fact that ‘if not on a permanent schedule’. Who will draw up this parliamentary timetable, if not the parliament itself?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u38	Madam President! The timetable for this government's proposal has been clear since last summer, and the government's proposal has been given exactly as it was presented last summer. Of course, in accordance with its own Rules of Procedure, Parliament will deal with the matter carefully and without delay, and it is probably equally clear to all of us in this Chamber that Parliament's authority will not allow us Members of Parliament to go on holiday before this big issue has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u40	Next question, the Finnish Parliament Group, Mr Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u41	Mr President! I keep getting calls from people who seek justice for themselves. The banking crisis in the '90s is still touching. After 1992, legal changes were introduced to remove the dishonesty of creditors from the law. This made it possible to conclude an SSP bank agreement in which the Government authorised banks to bankrupt companies in certain sectors and export their assets at a low price. The banks were allowed to unilaterally terminate the loans of 65,000 entrepreneurs in order to raise their solvency to the level required by EU and EEA agreements. Now I ask Minister Häkkkäs: what role of the state still justifies the continued operation of Arsenal, and how quickly does the government intend to stop Arsenal's recovery of debts?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u42	Mr President! This is, in fact, a matter for the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Markets Department, but I can comment on it when it comes to some of these private debt arrangements and debt obsolescence issues, that in Finland, in fact, laws have been brought into force recently, which actually allow long-term debts to expire in the future. These major crises of recession, which come to individuals either through business or otherwise through debt, are always enormously important in human terms. In Finland, regulation has already been made, which allows private individuals to get debt arrangements and debt arrangements in order, at least in general terms. The Debt Settlement Act has now been in force for 25 years and, in fact, the second week was just analysed that this law has worked very well. In fact, thank you to Hannele Poka, who, in his capacity as Minister of Justice, took the project through. But the rest of this belongs to the Financial Markets Department and the Finance Minister, so that he will probably comment later on the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u43	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u44	Mr President! The Minister has not answered the question. I know that you have been contacted, this Velallisten Tuki ry, people who are involved in these matters have been in contact with you. We are now appealing to the Minister that the government is going to do everything in its power to clarify these matters. This is a question of justice, because the judicial system, which once instructed banks to give preferential treatment in civil matters and immunity, is not part of the rule of law, and this is why it has to be transparent. But why did this legislation, which forgives paralytic debts, only come into force in 2008, and yet why was not all the debtors pardoned but Arsenal still working on some debtors? This process has left indelible traces of debt imprisonment for experienced families and children of families. I ask again: which measures justify that the asset management company should: Arsenal's still going on?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u45	Mr President! Of course, I repeat a little earlier that this is a matter for the Ministry of Finance. The information I have been provided about Arsenal’s activities is in accordance with Finnish law and order. Of course, people have different ideas about this and, humanly, these are extremely difficult situations. But the Ministry of Finance commented on these later. In Finland, we currently have very good legislation on debt to individuals and businesses in international comparisons. People who are unable to pay their debts are already able to provide relief. But the starting point must continue to be that anyone who is in debt, whether in business or as a private individual, must be able to pay the debts. But at some point, of course, you have to be able to get your debt out of date so that you can get a new start.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u46	Mr President! The recession in the 1990s was extremely hard for the Finnish state and a significant part of our households. The debt grew rapidly, and many lost their entire fortune. In many cases, falling debts were caused by loss of jobs, an explosion in interest rates, a currency loan or guarantee liabilities that fell to be paid. Many people over-indebted, and it cannot be said that it was always entirely their own fault. Even today, not everyone has survived the attacks of the recession, even though it has been 25 years. The old parties have been talking for years about helping the victims of the recession, but the practical measures have remained modest. In addition to banks, political decision-makers were also involved in exacerbating the effects of the recession. It is no longer necessary to hide these responsibilities, as Mr Huhtasaari has said here. We Finns have had quite a lot on the agenda, and last Tuesday, among other things, there was a bill in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u49	Mr President! This question, of course, was, in a sense, related to a broader indebtedness, and I can comment on it — this Arsenal and certain other arrangements are the responsibility of the Minister for Finance. Finland has already introduced reforms to debt obsolescence, i.e. there is no eternal debt imprisonment. And now we are going to have a wide-ranging programme of over-indebtedness, which is currently taking place, with regard to consumer credit as well as quick credit, is constantly developing legislation on debt arrangements, and significant efforts are being made to provide financial and debt advice to prevent people from being caught up in the debt cycle. At the same time, we also have an assessment of the enterprise's personal bankruptcy project and are developing the bankruptcy system more quickly so that people do not hang on to those systems for years if there are problems with bankruptcy or bankruptcy. But one of the most important issues is how to invest in economic literacy in schools so that people in this age of digital pay and debt do not become so vulnerable to debt spirals. This may be one of the biggest questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u50	Madam President! With regard to this subject, it is precisely: We have people in debt, and we have such a system as a credit default marking, which you see in the case of people on this main issue is really important. For us, the system hangs these people who have already paid their debts and paid their responsibilities for a year, two, three, four years, so that they do not get into a normal life, even though they have already paid their responsibilities. There are bankrupt entrepreneurs, there are young people who have been quick-lipped and families with children who are in this distress, that they are not getting a rental dwelling, they are not getting a telephone subscription. I would now like to ask Minister Häkkkäs: what action would the government still take during this period in order to put an end to this inadequacy so that, once the debtor has fulfilled his responsibilities, the debt and default marking would be removed?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u51	Mr President! Thank you for the timely question to the representative. Debt needs a wide-ranging programme to prevent over-indebtedness and, on the other hand, to allow everyone to take up debt — a matter of extreme importance to everyday life — for the purchase of housing or for the purchase of consumer goods. But how do we ensure that people who over-indebtedness and manage their affairs remain subject to proper regulation, even if these default labels are not properly regulated? I have launched a periodic evaluation of this with regard to our Credit Information Act, and there will be an evaluation at the Ministry of Justice for the remainder of the election period of whether there is a need to move forward on this issue. We also have a project on a positive credit register in which we will find out whether it would be better, in fact, for Finland to have centrally, comprehensively known loans in one register, so that the lender, the lender, would also have to make an overall assessment of consumer credit. More effective mechanisms are needed to prevent financial market participants from also being unable to act irresponsibly in the consumer credit market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u52	Mr President! A year ago, the government made a promise. It made a promise that there would be a law on the bankruptcy of a private individual. We all have newspaper headlines on this promise, black and white. We remember it especially well in the Finns, because then we were still in government responsibility. Now, however, there has been no law. It makes you feel that the promise given to entrepreneurs and indebted people was betrayed. So I ask you, Prime Minister, why has that law not yet been laid down as promised?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u53	Mr President! So it has been promised that the position of an honest, bankrupt entrepreneur will be eased,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u56	Next question, the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u57	Mr President! Prime Minister, you have just said here in Question Time that the organisation of elections is a technique. I'm afraid you're wrong. The organisation of elections is democracy. A week ago you told the evening newspaper that you had negotiated a timetable for dealing with the war with Parliament a year ago and therefore did not agree with the idea of delaying the war or postponing the elections. So who do you think you've been able to agree on a schedule for dealing with the wares? The Prime Minister cannot agree with anyone on how long it will take to process the laws in Parliament. The Prime Minister is not a business leader and Parliament is not under the authority of the Prime Minister. You have also said that the debate on the timetable for the regional elections is nonsense — nonsense. Is this your idea of democracy? So I ask you, Prime Minister Sipilä: is it not your role as Prime Minister to defend the possibility of parliamentary democratic scrutiny of laws, or is it the Prime Minister's job to do so?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u58	Madam President! First of all, I do not consider democratic elections to be nonsense, but I considered the answers given by the journalist himself to the questions that were intended for me as nonsense. So this is the issue, and I said very clearly that Parliament will deal with the matter in accordance with its own Rules of Procedure, in consultation with experts, without delay and then give its opinion and a decision will be taken here. And under no circumstances am I going from the government to control Parliament's activities. It's obvious. That question of the timing of the elections is more of a technical matter than a matter of substance, but we certainly respect the fact that democratic elections will have a sufficient time to prepare. That's what the Attorney General's office is for.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u59	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u60	Mr Prime Minister, you said again today in Question Time that the time for dealing with the waste in Parliament has been fixed or decided last summer. That can't be right. Mr President! Prime Minister, the position of the Attorney General's Office is that we should have six months to free the elections after the laws have been dealt with in Parliament. This is minimum time. Prime Minister Sipilä, you said that the debate on the timing of the regional elections is a total nonsense. Social and regional reforms must be carried out under democratic and parliamentary legislative powers and in accordance with appropriate governance. Now the urgency of the government's political solutions threatens to change the foundations of the Finnish parliamentary system in a very fundamental, significant and unprecedented way. Mr President! I would ask Prime Minister Sipilä whether you intend to respect the view of the Supreme Legal Officer and
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u61	Mr President! I will return to what the representative refers to a year ago. A year ago, after the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we were in a position not to be able to make the changes required by the Constitutional Committee here in Parliament, and it resulted in our wanting to make a proposal from the new government. 5.7.2017 In the Government's negotiations, which had been prepared by us for the preparation of officials, we decided on the timetable for how we can take forward this Act on freedom of choice, when a government proposal will arise, how long it will be for the consultation, and then when this proposal can be submitted to Parliament in early March 2018. At the same time, however, I would like to remind you that for more than a year the majority of major laws relating to regions have already been discussed here in Parliament: the Finance Act, the VOS Act and so on. Which means they were already here for processing. But now we have seen here in the last few weeks that this work here takes more time
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u62	As I understand it, there are other questions from the groups. Parliamentary Group of the Left Alliance, representative Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u63	Mr President! It is extremely worrying that the government is underestimating the concerns about the timetable for social and regional reform,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u66	Mr President! This is very important that we discuss a very fundamental issue, that in the future – when we know that spending on social services will increase – we want to limit the increase in costs in some way or we do not want to limit it. We want to limit it. And if you think that we have had the spending limits procedure in the state for quite a long time, and we have also received a lot of praise for the spending limits procedure internationally, and I do think so — and the whole government's proposal is based on it — that it is a good thing that there is also this limitation in the funding of the provinces that costs cannot go up quite anywhere. But then I would like to return to this question of elections and the quality of democracy. I hope that there is also concern here that the first regional councils will also have sufficient time to take the most important decisions to establish their economic and administrative activities, to make the property arrangements, staff and other transfers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u67	Mr President! It is true that Finland's population is ageing and we already have problems with the resources for care for the elderly. That is why, as the Minister said, this is a matter of principle. It's a big difference what kind of social security system we're building. We could build a system of social services in which this idea of integration of services is realised and where it is possible to make savings by organising services in a sensible way, as has been done in Kainuu, as has been done in Eksote, and which, through tax law, also allows regions to raise their own funding if they want to secure an even better level of service. But what the government is now proposing is therefore a model in which the bar is open to companies with this system of freedom of choice, and at the same time you are pushing through this financial law, which gives no political room for manoeuvre to future county councillors but to cut and concentrate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u68	I have to say, on behalf of the government and also on behalf of the provincial preparers who work in those provinces, how these articles work there in their province, that it is a completely absurd claim that we would like to undertake a reform that would lead to the cutting of services. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u69	Mr President! My own province, Lapland, is at the forefront of the sufferers in terms of funding. The latest financial calculations, published on 15 May, showed a decrease of as much as EUR 33.3 million. The reason for this is that the calculation does not recognise Lapland's needs, but it also does not recognise Uusimaa's needs. The reform must ensure that — not jeopardise — equal social services can be organised in different parts of Finland. With this funding, the county’s decision-makers face an unthankful task: will services be cut, or will customer fees be increased?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u72	Mr President! First of all, the regional funding model for each of the first years, 2020, is based on the financing that is the average of social spending in municipalities in 18 and 19. We have recognised it in these negotiations with the provinces that it does not take sufficient account of the change in the need for services, for example here in Uusimaa it does not take it sufficiently — the population is growing. But such a pattern that it would accurately take into account the specific characteristics of each province, we may not be able to build nationally. But then on these calculations, to which you referred with regard to this May, they are not final either. We are following extremely closely the information produced by these test calculations. I must say that when they are based on so-called budget surveys by municipalities, there is a lot of inaccuracy there, and I very much hope that, for example, this slight weakening, which still came to Lapland, will also be improved during the next calculations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u73	There are a number of questions on this subject, the Swedish Parliamentary Group, Mr Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u75	Mr President! First of all, I would like to return to this statement by the Attorney General. In fact, it does not say that six months, if I have understood this statement correctly, but about six months is this of the Attorney General... [Heckling — Laughing]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u76	On this same subject, the Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group, Mr Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u77	Mr President! Finland is known around the world as a model country for democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u80	Mr President! It is certainly quite clear that the government's proposal, which includes a specific proposal on the date of the regional elections, is a proposal. Parliament will deal with this legislative package in a proper and high-quality manner in this house and then decide when elections will take place. There have been proposals, in the final analysis, to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am sure, on what is the minimum time or an adequate time for elections to take place. Once matters have been properly dealt with, elections will be held at the time needed to do so. As far as the Venice Commission's view is concerned, the Venice Commission is, in fact, and their recommendations are based on the fact that the fundamental rules for calculating these elections — for example, who can stand as a candidate, how the fundamentals of the electoral system are waved — should not be changed a year before such a situation does not arise that, for example, some authoritarian regime, by giggling with the methods of calculating the electoral system, is trying to obtain what is acceptable to itself from the parliamentary elections or others. That is not what this is about, but the fundamentals of electoral law and so on are the same as in other elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u81	Madam President! As far as the six months or about six months are concerned, the six months come from that part of the electoral funding law. Parties and electoral associations outside the Parliament cannot start preparing for elections in accordance with the six-month rule of the Election Finance Act unless we have those laws in force. In that sense, this is a fundamental question for democracy, that if we give the signal here that it is enough for the parties in this House to be able to take part in the elections, but the others do not matter so much, then it is indeed a matter of concern for democracy. I have to say, the election director. From this very point of view, even the iceman's exits have been incompetent. In that sense, I would like the Minister of Justice to make it clear to the public that, as far as the electoral funding law is concerned, and in what way these non-parliamentary parties and electoral associations now find themselves in a very unequal position. In this House, we must look after democracy as a whole and not just in the light of the fact that the parties in this House will succeed in the forthcoming elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u82	Chairman! The Electoral Director has taken a position on how matters directly related to electoral law can be organised and the technical minimum is about four months. That is the statement that has been made to the committees and here for information. The Attorney General's office has made its own point of view, six months. I would like to stress that it is worth having a debate on the timing of the elections when it is known at what stage Parliament will be able to deal with the matter in terms of content. It will then be decided what time the elections will take place. Simply like this. This is the right marching order. Surely, at this stage in this Chamber, it is not worth deciding on a new election day, for example, because we are in the middle of a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u83	Mr President! I could ask Mr Prime Minister why chapter 87 is interesting, but let me tell you this: it is a figure that tells me how many people there are in the assembly and in the centre. That number is a clear minority in Parliament, and this social reform has been negotiated and agreed by this minority. I would like to say this because it is now a question of a mega-class reform, and I would like to make one more point from the Prime Minister, when there is an exceptionally bad climate in this House, so that you can now say in plain language:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u84	Madam President! Mr Gustafsson has now failed to mention one party, one parliamentary group, the blue ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u87	Mr President! The OECD estimates that the Finnish health system is the third most cost-effective in the world. There is therefore a clear risk that major changes will lead to lower cost-effectiveness, i.e. higher costs. All the examples of how cost-effectiveness is improved on the part of the government, Eksote and Kainuu, are based on better integration of primary health care and special care and social services, but the current government proposal specifically increases border barriers reduces integration. Last, Professor Kekomäki, in the Medical Journal, stated that the government’s proposal puts health centers at risk, eliminates the little integration that is currently there, and creates a new barrier between Finns — between those who need social services and those who do not need it. Do you understand the government's proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u88	Mr President! You referred by your question, Mr Hassi, to OECD comparisons. It is true that Finland is a relatively good country in this respect too. On the other hand, we have estimates that our system is exceptionally fragmented internationally. The question of fragmentation is not how many service providers we will have in the future, but how many bodies are responsible for producing the services of our citizens, i.e. organising them. And the strength of the models you mentioned, such as South Karelia, Central Ostrobothnia and North Karelia, is precisely based on changes in content, such as strengthening the focus on rehabilitation or the integration you mentioned, but above all on a strong organiser, and with the addition of a strong opportunity for many producers to bring their services into the system, the emphasis is on improving the quality of their current system.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u89	Mr President! Prime Minister, the Government's bill on the creation of provinces is currently being discussed and discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and this law includes a section written by the Government which states that the elections will take place in Finland on 28 October. It is true that it is up to the government to indicate how this article will be amended. Are you going to listen to the Chancellor of Justice's recommendation and postpone the election date so that this recommendation of the Chancellor of Justice for six months will be fulfilled or not? You have still not answered this question. The Chancellor of Justice is the supreme guardian of legality in Finland — are you listening to his words or are you not listening?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u90	To this question, it is true that the proposal which came as a supplement last December is 28.10. But, as we have seen, the timetable that had been estimated does not seem to be fully maintained. But I would stress that, of course, the statement made by the Chancellor of Justice will be taken into account. And then, secondly, what many here have already said: content first, and then, here in Parliament, we will also see together what that election day is if elections after this debate on content have to be postponed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u91	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u92	Mr President! The Nordic democratic rule of law includes the highest level of judicial supervision independent of the government and the judiciary. Since 1714, the Attorney General has been securing the law. Today, the Chancellor of Justice is an independent constitutional institution, independent of government, which safeguards and promotes the democratic rule of law and fundamental and human rights. I now present to Parliament the report of the Chancellor of Justice provided for in the Constitution on the activities of the Chancellor of Justice and the findings of compliance with the law. The Chancellor of Justice's report and mission therefore opens up a broad perspective on the implementation and progress of fundamental and human rights and the rule of law on the everyday problems of the individual, ranging from the quality of the legislation and the constitutionality of the government's proposals to the structural issues and obstacles to the implementation of the rights. The structure of the report follows tradition, but the content of the report shows the development of law enforcement. The development of division of labour and cooperation between the Ombudsman of Parliament and the Chancellor of Justice of the Government has now been addressed. The Ministry of Justice has prepared a working group in very good cooperation between the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice, the signatory, to develop cooperation and division of labour between the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice. Now, in my own contribution to the forthcoming report, I will address the starting points for further development of this division of labour and cooperation. The wording of the Constitution already reflects the guidelines for further work. It is therefore important to develop this practical division of labour and cooperation from the point of view of the strengths of the two Supreme Legal Officers. Among the strengths of the Chancellor of Justice of the Government include the supervision of the legality of the actions of the Government and the President of the Republic and, in this respect, the possibility of preliminary regulatory control and independent legal advice. Another clear area of strength for the Chancellor of Justice is supervision in the broad sense of justice. The Chancellor of Justice is responsible, in addition to matters relating to the criminal prosecutions of judges within the meaning of the Constitution, for the supervision of lawyers, public legal advisers and authorised legal advisers and, in particular, for ensuring the functioning of the control system and taking account of the legal protection of service users. Further strengths include the possibility of combining judicial and administrative control and thus providing a picture of everyday problems and problems with respect to judicial control at the level of the Government and the President of the Republic and questions concerning the preparation of legislative acts. In my own speech, I have therefore focused specifically on questions of trust and law and good lawmaking. Mr President! Trust in law and good lawmaking is one of the most valuable dimensions of community capital in our society. It is necessary for both the government and Parliament to be fluent in the decision-making of the Supreme Government, on which constitutionality and legality provide the necessary and very good basis. This smoothness will contribute to a good way of drafting the law, and the active approach and role of the Chancellor of Justice can also be useful and will maintain the functioning of the basic structures of our society. This also provides the basis for the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the performance of its constitutional mandate to pronounce on the constitutionality of legislative proposals in Parliament. As a reform from the beginning of this year, we have introduced the ex-ante review procedure for Government proposals in good time before the Government's proposals were submitted to the Government's plenary session for decision. At this stage, this can be focused mainly on the most important government proposals for the implementation of fundamental and human rights and good governance and the functioning of the democratic rule of law. We will be able to deal with proposals which are exceptionally large, i.e. with more than 100 or 250 pages. This procedure will also enable us to make recommendations on the evaluation and implementation of the Government's proposal and its relationship with the Constitution and with international fundamental and human rights in order to improve the proposal, the implementation of which, of course, is a matter for Parliament's responsible government. I hope that, in time, this procedure will be reflected in better legal proposals here in Parliament and in the better implementation of the preparation process for a comprehensive social inclusion and good impact assessment. In his speech, Deputy Chancellor of Justice Mikko Pumalainen considers the activities of the Chancellor of Justice as one of the means of judicial review. Legal control can be a remedy for errors and a remedy for errors, an interpretation which is generalised on a specific point, but also preventive, guiding, and it can intervene in structures and systemic errors, and this is where the verification procedure is one thing. Mr President! The last year of the Attorney General's office was hard work. Complaints are only one part of our work, but they started with a record number of 2346 copies. We managed to resolve 2,381 copies and at the end of last year there were no complaints pending for more than a year. We had an average processing time of 8.7 weeks and a median of 3.2 weeks, which means that we will immediately try to assess whether this complaint will give rise to action, and to launch any studies quickly, and if it does not give rise to action, we will also be able to resolve the matter quickly. About 50% did not require the actual Chancellor of Justice to act. It is clear from these that the Chancellor of Justice is trusted, but expectations are sometimes too high. There may be, for example, attempts to amend a court decision that has the force of law or, for example, decisions made in the exercise of Parliament's legislative powers. The thematic chapters of the report show how we have contributed to the conditions for the realisation of fundamental and human rights in our decision-making efforts. The major issues that still require our action are delays in handling cases and delays and procedural errors in making documents and data available to the public. And there are also more issues related to the availability and functionality of digital services, including work administration, which are under way. Mr President! The Chancellor of Justice's report on official activities and enforcement shows how the Chancellor of Justice is active in safeguarding the democratic rule of law, and also tells of the state of the rule of law and the problems of everyday life. I will leave this report to the House for discussion and to support the construction of a society based on trust and trust in the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u93	Mr President! We would have a lot to discuss right now about the quality of the legislative work, because there are so many concerns. The debate should be held, among other things, on the possibilities for each Member of Parliament to do his work carefully and well. But now we are dealing with the Chancellor of Justice's report for 2017, and I will only mention one thing about it: On page 107 of the report, the Chancellor of Justice has taken a position on the time limits for replying to written questions from Members of Parliament. In the light of this, it is my own personal observation from a couple of years ago that it took up to 50 to 60 days for the minister to answer the worst, while the official deadline for replying is 21 days. I asked my colleagues about this and many said that they had waited much longer than three weeks for answers. The fact that delays are the most typical in certain ministries, not all of them, also emerged in discussions with colleagues. Together with 42 other representatives, I proposed measures to ensure timetables for written questions and to ensure the quality of the answers, and I also spoke to the Chancellor of Justice at the time. I am now very pleased that attention has been paid to this, because the written question is an important tool for the Member of Parliament. Written questions are asked by representatives of both the government and the opposition, but of course it is a particularly important tool for members of the opposition. As stated in this report by the Chancellor of Justice, ‘the Commission has the right to obtain the information it needs on the activities of the government and For Members of Parliament, written questions are part of this right to information. It also fulfils Parliament's duty to monitor the legality of the Government's actions. The written question is an important instrument for the realisation of democracy.” So this is what the Chancellor of Justice's report says. I understand that the ministries have now remained fairly well within the 21-day deadline, but I still want to criticise the quality of the answers. Even now, there is a written question on my desk, where I wonder whether I would send it back to answer it again, because it has not answered my question, even though there is a great deal of quantitative text. This is not the first time, therefore, because I have had to send questions again before because the text produced does not answer my question. There seems to be also differences in the quality of the answers per ministry. Some ministries always become very relevant and good answers, and some ministries seem to have different quality. I therefore hope that further attention will be paid to this issue. Don't you think it's a good idea to give a proper answer at a time? At least I feel that I have the right to have an answer to what I am asking. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u94	Madam President! This annual report by the Chancellor of Justice is always very interesting to read, and it tells a great deal about the activities of our society, particularly in relation to legislation and its implementation. Here I would like to highlight the fact that there is a great deal of reflection here on this level of drafting and implementation, and that there is also a great deal to be said about this major social reform and regional reform which is now under discussion and about the statements made by the Chancellor of Justice. For example, on page 14: ‘The State of Justice does not currently have only formal legality. Under the current rule of law, all public authority has a democratic basis. In this respect, fundamental and human rights form the basis of the law and its application, which governs the activities of the legislator and the rest of the public authorities. We are talking about the rule of law with regard to fundamental and human rights obligations.” Then there are these six principles which, even at European level, show how good the rule of law is developing. Finally, ‘the European Court of Human Rights’s case-law has set out important additional criteria for law and loan law and legal certainty which bring a more substantive dimension The law must be accessible and accessible, clear and understandable, and legal solutions based on the law must be predictable and predictable.” These are very important criteria. At the moment, after three years of sitting in that committee of laws and sittings, listening to a wide range of speeches from other committees, I am a little concerned about the kind of drafting of legislation in this Parliament, the kind of drafting that the government brings to us and with what objectives. There have been quite a number of proposals aimed at fiscal objectives, then there have been proposals with a strong political objective, and there is the impression that many of these proposals have not been considered until the end, as is also the case with the fact that quite a few proposals have been withdrawn. I welcome the fact that the Chancellor of Justice is increasingly involved in this and is saying and monitoring that the level of legislative drafting is maintained. Then attention is paid here to the recommendations of the Evaluation Council and it is said that ‘in the monitoring of the Chancellor of Justice,how the recommendations of the Evaluation Council have been taken into account in the preparation of the law’. The last thing we have heard is a clear statement that, for example, the social reform currently under discussion does not meet the economic expectations that have been expressed that it would produce. With interest I will follow next year's report, which will then assess how this has gone, and then in the years to come too. ‘Consequent procedures to ensure the legality of the I'm sure this conversation will live right here. Once again, all I have to say is that this is a very good and interesting report, and with interest I am listening to other speeches here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u95	Mr President! Thank you to the Attorney General for the Annual Report 2017. It is a detailed and comprehensive report. In this Chamber, I would like to express my thanks for the fact that, as the Chancellor said in his own speech, the deadlines for resolving complaints have been shortened in the last three years. One of the major flaws in our judicial system is the long processing periods, which can often be considered to be justified, and now according to the report, the processing times have halved compared to the processing times of the 2014 solutions, now with a median time of 3.2 weeks. That sounds reasonable enough. It is also a good thing that at the end of 17 none of the cases had been pending for more than a year. This is a good direction and is likely to improve public confidence in the legal system. I would also like to thank Mr Mäkisalo-Roppo for his important intervention in the issue of written questions. In particular, the quality of the answers raised in the speech has drawn my own attention. For example, even when I was even in the government party at the time, the quality of the ministry’s responses was completely classless. They did not answer what was asked, and they could last longer than three weeks as instructed. So it is important to continue to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u96	Madam President! The Annual Report of the Chancellor of Justice for 2017 in the referral debate deals extensively with different fundamental rights and the activities of different authorities. The introduction highlights, among other things, how the rule of law is not just a formal law today. Under the current rule of law, all public authority has a democratic basis. It emphasises the quality of drafting legislation and respect for fundamental and human rights. Mr President! The Annual Report of the Attorney General's Office for War states a number of points. Given its timing, I think it is appropriate to look at these parts of the report. A number of opinions on the issue of social protection were issued during this reporting period. I would like to make a few main comments on the problems raised. In March 2017,the Deputy Chancellor of Justice stated in his opinion on the draft Act on Freedom of Choice: ‘The main points of view are that theopportunities for the opinion of the evaluators were questionable on the basis of sufficientinformation. The fact that proposals for solutions to such key issues were still being prepared during the consultation process was found to be problematic in terms of transparency. It appears that the draft law was not to be re-asked for opinions before the government's proposal was submitted to Parliament. The Deputy Chancellor of Justice questioned whether sufficient information had been given to the contributors in order to establish their position. The opinion also stated that the explanatory memorandum to the draft laws stated that, from the point of view of safeguarding fundamental rights, it should be considered, inter alia, whether the system safeguards fundamental rights on an equal footing throughout Finland and what the capacity of the province to safeguard services as the claimant of last resort's liability is. This weighing was found to be incomplete in the draft. The Deputy Chancellor of Justice considered that the final government proposal could not leave the matter to unfinished considerations in the draft subject-matter of the opinion. In a ready-made government proposal, constitutionally justified answers to outstanding questions and conclusions on the relationship of the proposal to the Constitution were to be presented. The position of both the customer and social and health care operators was characterised by confusion and interpretation problems. In addition, a more comprehensive assessment of the impact of the proposed regulation was needed. — And so on. The Deputy Chancellor of Justice also considered it desirable that the government's proposal be submitted to the Attorney General's Office for a preliminary inspection in good time before its presentation at the General Assembly of the Government. Now it is good to hear that this approach has been more clearly put into practice. Madam President! I have taken up some examples of this annual report by the Chancellor of Justice in relation to social affairs. Because today, in Question Time, too, we have discussed how the views and opinions of the Attorney General's Office, which exercises the authority of the Supreme Legal Officer, should be taken into account in relation to the legislation currently under discussion in relation to regional reform and social reform, I do welcome the fact that these are taken into account and that the law enforcement work of the Attorney General's Office will continue to be given the necessary and deserved value.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u97	Mr President! Thank you to the Chancellor of Justice for the good report and, in particular, for the fact that you have, of course, also raised the issue of the division of duties between the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman and its development. A subject we have been talking about for a long time, perhaps decades. But now it's back on the table, and that's a good thing. All in all, however, since you are here, Mr Chancellor of Justice, of course, it is good to stop here, in the midst of all the urgency of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to reflect on these elements, on the quality of the legislative work in general, on its development, but above all, as colleagues have said, that the preparation of the law must have the status, the time and the expertise that good legislative work and its preparation is and what it needs. I would have taken this opportunity to ask you: how do you see this situation today, here and now, both in terms of drafting legislation and in terms of parliamentary work? Do you think it is what it should be, and how do you see the future? And in particular I would ask: Do you see that in Finland today we have clear information on the role of the Government and the role of Parliament? Because even today, when you listened to Question Time, there were times when there were porridges and wafers getting confused. And, of course, I would like to conclude by asking: What priorities do you see now for this year and for the future? What kind of things would you like to emphasise as a relatively new Attorney General?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u98	Madam President! Thank you to the Attorney General for presenting the matter. — — — — I would like to continue a little on that question by Mr Skinner to say how this division of duties between the Chancellor of Justice and the Parliamentary Ombudsman is to be continued. From this annual report, it was somewhat unclear whether it would only continue to improve practices or whether there would be some legislative changes. Actually, that's what I would have asked. And now on to these other things: Representative Mäkelä of the Finns Party took this trust in the legal system into the debate, and it is extremely important that we should be able to rely on our courts and prosecutors and police and law enforcement. Unfortunately, of course, in recent years we have seen unfortunate cases that undermine our confidence in it, and then we do not have to be surprised that citizens have mistrust of people who work with the law, such as judges, prosecutors, perhaps even the police, and that is a real shame. I myself have been an official for a long time and have always tried conscientiously to comply with the law according to the ability and knowledge I have had, and it is extremely important to pay attention to these matters. It actually brings me to my beloved subject of the donkey bridge, the courts, whose resources I am always concerned about. I would have liked the Chancellor of Justice to tell us and answer: how do you see the situation of the courts as a guardian of the law? It has been a few years since there was a public debate on the fact that there had been an investigation into the work of judges in particular. We often talk about how we need to have more guarantees and hearings and processes of legal protection, which are of course important for everyone's legal security and are part of that good trial, but often they are forgotten by the careful judges with very high work standards in the district courts. Do you have any idea how much they're doing? However, when you look at your report, for example, from page 114, there are comments and discussions about the activities of district judges and judges and court officials, and there is an example here that the administrative court stayed for more than two weeks. I'm sure it's pretty rare that you're so busy, but how do you see this situation? This already tells me that maybe there's a rush, I don't know. Then, about the responsibility of the district judge’s work here, the solution is that when there have been mistakes between the penalty claim and the sentence, the last responsibility for its accuracy is always borne by the district judge. So the prosecutor has received a lighter remark in it that the charge has been wrong, and when the court has not noticed it, the judge has then received a more serious remark on this matter. I do not know exactly what type and weight these are, since I have not read these whole solutions, but your report. But this pressure on work and these tell us how much we demand of the court. I have often said here that when we are making more and more legislation and every single government proposal says ‘no resource impact’ and if we are giving additional tasks — we have been discussing a great deal of testing and daycareand protecting children and many more —everyone understands that resources are needed,but how the Court of Justice will deal withthe need for new tasks,asthereare noresourceimpacts? I would have liked the Chancellor of Justice to tell me what kind of observations you have. So that's my concern, and I always feel like we're always forgetting who's doing that job at the other end. It hasn't been a long time since I... There have been different wishes here for a day for that and a day for this. I myself have worked on both sides of the bench while working in the court of Appeal and then also as an assistant and representative of the Local Register Office in matters of lobbying, and I would like people to visit the Court of Justice to see that day. Many people work 12 to 15 hours a day, and district judges do not have working hours at all. It is good to remember that they are not paid overtime. Perhaps lastly, if you would allow me, President and Chancellor of Justice, if you could take a position on this when, during Question Time, the Minister of Justice stated on this recommendation from the Council of Europe in Venice that it would not concern this type of issue and the kind of reform that is at stake here. Can you tell us your view that there is a definition of what type of electoral systems it applies to? Since Professor Lavapuro has already stated in public on these matters that the elections are now taking place too late, and he has also spoken about this recommendation from Venice, this recommendation from the Council of Europe, although I understand that you have been left behind on this issue of war, I hope that you will be able to tell me what this recommendation is all about. At least I couldn't find it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u99	Mr President! This annual report by the Chancellor of Justice is always a very good opportunity to discuss important issues, not only the quality of legislation, but also the implementation of fundamental rights. Yes, we parliamentarians must also give weight to these big issues, and they must be discussed. After all, this quality of legislation has been much discussed in recent years. That is not only the sins of this government, for example, that there have been small drops in the quality of the drafting of the law, but that there have already been them in the past. This is something that all of us legislators should take into account and appeal for in order to achieve a more sustainable situation. Indeed, in many cases today, the Chancellor of Justice has been much of a watchman and has also had to deal with the legislation that the Government has been planning. On the other hand, it does indicate that the Chancellor of Justice has done well in this regard and that this system is working. But now that this annual report is being discussed and the Chancellor of Justice himself is here and good manners have included the fact that, at the end of this year, the Chancellor of Justice has had the opportunity to speak and I am sure to answer these questions which have come here, I would ask you, in front of Parliament, to confirm this statement by the Chancellor of Justice in connection with this election period. When we discussed it earlier in Question Time whether it is now about six months or six months, that would be good. I know that you have missed out on this content, but I am sure that you can confirm this position of your own office if any new legislation is being adopted and new elections are being held, whether there should be a six-month gap between it or not. It would certainly be appropriate to clarify this in front of Parliament and to support this debate now taking place, so that no question marks remain as to the position of the Chancellor of Justice and, at the same time, the Chancellor of Justice. At the same time, we could go on with that question by Mrs Mere, when reference was made to this report and recommendations of the Venice Commission and when they really relate to a situation that does not always involve fundamental issues, for example. on electoral law to be amended. But now we are living in a situation in which Parliament, for example, will decide on the conditions under which we give people the right to stand as a candidate — the right to stand as a candidate. Who can be nominated for the upcoming election? It's kind of a fundamental thing if we're looking at the electoral system. Here too, one might imagine that these international recommendations would have some sort of weight. Mr President! The only question I hope the Chancellor of Justice will answer here is really that you confirm this position of your office in relation to this electoral timetable and that it must be six months apart after the legislation has been finalised.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u100	Mr President! General respect for the law is quite difficult to define, and apparently no one is able to assess the current situation so that it is more necessary for the parliamentarians and certainly for the ministers and the officials responsible for the level of legislation to assess and be a view of what is going on. I would ask you, Mr Chancellor of Justice, to assess a little of the current respect for the law in Finland, and I will address a couple of examples which can then be used as a basis for this assessment. At least until now, and even now, Finland has been used to relying on other people and society's institutions, which then form the basis of respect for the law and the basis on which society as a whole revolves, and it is actually the starting point of our competitiveness, that we trust each other and that we can act in a reliable atmosphere. However, today, when you look at news reports such as Lex Kittilä, a change in the municipal law that was enacted in 2017, it seems that at a high level of civil servants, even though it has gone to the Constitutional Committee and has been adopted there and there has been no criticism of the legal order. There is a feeling that we must begin to assess this issue now, where we are going, if we have citizens and even democratic institutions in society to judge the laws, whether they are in the process of being followed or not. The second thing I would like to raise is our agreement between Finland and Norway on Teno fishing. After all, there were five constitutional rights which then defined, as it were, the frameworks to which this Treaty should go and which must be taken into account, and at least I did not see that very strongly there were these five rights, which were defined by the Constitution on a point-by-point basis, weighed and valued among themselves. It has also led to citizens fighting each other, as it were, and different groups of citizens fighting each other, and it is not a sign of good legislation or a good treaty. In some ways, now that three years go by quickly and 2019 this treaty will be re-examined, should the Chancellor of Justice think that already preventively, because time goes by quickly, set up some kind of high-level working group of legal scholars, which would begin to assess the future agreement and its content on a specific legal basis, that we will not be faced with another very urgent situation in which all these fundamental rights are not being weighed up de facto and then, as it were, we will again do something that does not satisfy the peoples, and then this struggle between people will continue?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u101	I give the answer to Attorney General Pöyst, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u102	Mr President! There were very wide-ranging questions here. Very concise answers: First of all, this division of labour theme. I myself am open to looking at the matter openly and from the point of view of what would be the most effective way of ensuring legality and also this sense of justice and trust in the law. My personal thought has been that surely this division of labour law between the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice should also be examined, but here, of course, it is good to follow the good drafting process and evaluate it properly and not just toss such butterflies. My point of view is partly reflected in this report. I can see that the Chancellor of Justice has quite a strong column on such structural issues and issues of good law and trust. Now to this state of lawmaking. I would simply say that the state of law-making is different at the moment. One key problem in that, but not the only problem, is the time, that is, there may not be enough time for that in big things. From my point of view, I could say that — and this has nothing to do with any single government — when a new government is formed, then there will be such an idea and hope that much will be achieved, but that four-year parliamentary term will be very short, so we need such a common vision of what can be done in that time and what really is going on over the election period. There is also a need for the ability to reconcile the various legal aspects in good time, to which the last speech rightly referred, because less often in difficult legislative projects it is a question of having only one fundamental right, but it is a question of finding a balance between those different aspects. I believe that this balance is one such weak point at the moment in the drafting of legislation. Some of this is also a question of competence. Perhaps, as a future emphasis on the role of the Chancellor of Justice, I would see that the Chancellor of Justice should be able to work on fundamental and human rights and on the major themes of our society in general. One important topic at the moment is, of course, digitalisation and the issue of digital services, and the other is, of course, the successful implementation of these major reforms so that, once the legislation has been enacted by Parliament, it can also be implemented in an appropriate way. From this point of view, which actually links the issue to this situation in the courts, I believe that one of the problems with the drafting of legislation is also the tendency to detach from these problems of practical implementation. My brief experience with the role of the Chancellor of Justice is that we would have to think a little more seriously about the people who have to enforce the law, both in the courts and in the authorities, or as citizens or companies that apply it. In other words, this proactive introduction of an executive perspective to that preparatory phase would also be important and, of course, one small player could also be the Chancellor of Justice, who, however, has a good perspective on that whole. The state of the courts. We have to be careful that especially from this place, from this position we start to take such resource-question positions, because it is quite a complex issue, but we in the judiciary are basically now operating with quite limited resources. In particular, there should be concern that we will be able to ensure proper handling by the first-stage appeal boards, such as the Social Security Appeals Board, as well as by the first-degree administrative courts and district courts, and serious attention should be paid to this. It may mean budget decisions, but not just that, but also that the organisation of cases, the running of a court — there are many court-specific differences — will enable it to do a good job. The final point was this Venice Commission. Firstly, because of the confidence in the institution of the Chancellor of Justice, which is precisely the constitutional institution, I have not myself dealt with this issue of social security, that there should not be twice said in the same matter or in the matter of the Parliament, so it is not really a question of being frozen. The matter is also before the parliamentary committee, which means that there may not be any reason to go into all the details here, but briefly to this core issue. The Venice Commission is an expert body of the Council of Europe, which has made a general recommendation on what is good practice, a good way to conduct elections. It is not legally binding as such, but it is the idea that the essentials of the elections must be known in good time before the elections. Then there is the specific question: I confirm it and I myself think in the same way that we in the committee have been answered from our office without my guidance, that is to say, there must be an opportunity to put the candidates, get them funding and then have a proper election campaign. It is a question of the functioning of the basic element of democracy of this kind. Well, when there is no electoral organisation and no constituency division open, these international recommendations leave more room for discretion, but their election must be genuine and allow time to prepare for it. One yardstick is that we have electoral funding legislation which is based on the six months of the precise electoral funding period without which elections can be prepared. At the end of the minute, this trust in the law. The OECD did good work, and Finland has had a very high level of trust in both law and public authority. The courts in Finland are now very well trusted. 82% of Finns trust the judiciary, even though criticism comes. Instead, trust in the highest level of government decision-making and civil service activity has fallen in more than two parliamentary term trends, and that is why I think we need to step up our reflection on how we can restore this confidence in the law being weighed and it can be trusted. I took notes of other comments here. For example, the fact that Parliament receives correct and adequate information in various forms means means that we must follow. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u103	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u104	Mr President! The Finns are in favour of freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is the basis of social freedom and equality. The reduction of freedom of expression must always be treated with special caution, and solutions must only be made to the kind of communication that threatens the health or freedom of the individual being slandered in a way that satisfies the characteristics of defamation. According to the case law of the Court of Human Rights, freedom of expression is one of the fundamental foundations of a democratic society, one of the basic prerequisites for its progress and the development of each individual. According to Article 10 of the Convention on Human Rights, freedom of expression applies not only to information and ideas which are viewed with sympathy or which are considered harmless or unitary, but also to those that offend, shock and disturb. Instead of freedom of expression, there has started to be emphasis on the responsibility of expression and the section on ‘Caging against the Group of the People’s Party’ has been applied in the courts, as well as the clause on the violation of peace. True, in case law Christianity has not received the same kind of legal protection as certain minority religions and nationalities. This is what we all know: Jesus can be mocked, but Muhammad can't. The Finns of Peru require the rationalisation of the arousal and peace clauses, but this bill now concerns this arousal against the people. But in general we want to set everyone at an equal level, and that is why this debate is extremely important. We want all groups and religions to be equal before the law. In terms of maintaining social cohesion, it is a serious mistake to raise minorities, especially Islam in the eyes of the law, to the most popular position in so-called freedom of expression crimes. The use of hate speech term as a political percussion weapon has accelerated to unprecedented proportions in Finland. In particular, the critical immigration and EU-political debate maintained by the Finns have been sought by the power parties of our country and the consensus media that it supports, by constantly throwing hate speech charges into the air. The anti-immigration and anti-Europeanism, but not only that, but also this gender neutrality is now something that does not currently fit the world view of hegemony, and whenever something does not fit into the world picture, then the hate charges will come first and then the legislation will start to tighten up so that we can control and censor what is not wanted to be heard. The breakthrough of social media in Finland has helped to influence the opinion of those who have not made their voice heard in traditional media, or the traditional media, if it lets, for example, Mr Immonen out loud, then remember to tell the public what to think of Immonen's ideas, instead of letting the public decide for themselves what they think. The conservative and nationalist players who criticise the current system in particular have been able, through social media platforms, to communicate directly to their target groups, without filtering the mainstream media, which has been a huge victory for Finland’s democracy and civil dialogue. But what happens now? Recently, there has also been a desire to limit this social media. For example, some EU countries, such as Germany and France, have tightened their grip on social media by imposing severe periodic penalty payments on providers of these services if they do not remove certain content from their platforms within the time limit. The European Commission is also prepared to present legislation at European level, including, for example, a requirement to assess the reliability of news on social media. Does this mean that the Commission is going to tell us what to write about the Commission? This is getting tighter and tighter. We have no freedom if we do not have freedom of expression. And Chapter 11, Section 10 of the Criminal Code It is therefore appropriate to limit the criminal threat and incitement to such an act to be punished. There is no need to promote public opinion delinquency.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u105	Mr President! It is said that without freedom of expression there is no democracy and without democracy there is no freedom of expression. That is very well said, and I see that this is what Mr Huhtasaari's bill at this debate is basically about. Representative Huhtasaari and the Finns of Finland in general are strongly in favour of freedom of expression. Freedoms of speech, thought and conscience are valuable in themselves, but they have a particular weight in the development of a balanced civil society. It must be understood that unjustified restrictions on freedom of expression can easily lead to bitterness and frustration on the part of citizens, thus also affecting their confidence in democracy. Limiting certain opinions also easily leads to more confrontation between citizens and the division of people. Mr President! As regards the current formulation of criminal law, this provision of law is particularly problematic in that it states that there is an incitement to a group of people who ‘may or may otherwise be placed in the public arena or keep public access to information, opinion or other communication,in which there is a threat,may be or may be a group’. This point is extremely problematic as it also covers provocative opinions within the sphere of freedom of expression. Because of the broad interpretation of the law, it in practice criminalises all views and opinions expressed in critical terms about groups of people, including when they are based, for example, on statistics or other facts. The problem with the current legislation is that we do not know exactly where the limits of freedom of expression actually go, i.e. what critical things can be said in Finland, for example, about immigration or immigrants without being held responsible in criminal law. So the question is, where is the limit of permitted and unauthorized speech? I don't think anyone in this room can point that line. That is not the limit that has been assigned to us by law or anywhere else. In principle, the situation is the same as if the traffic rules were to prohibit speeding, but traffic signs were not on the roadside and no one knew where the allowed speed was. Since no one knows where the limit of permitted and unallowed speech goes, it reduces the courage of people and the willingness to participate in, for example, a critical debate on immigration. This, on the other hand, is a very bad thing for freedom of expression and democracy. Mr President! For decades, the elite of our society have been seeking to target certain religions and their representatives for special protection and favour. As we have seen, our judicial system, as a general rule, punishes the incitement of people against the peoples whose criticism is directed at these particular populations, such as the Muslim people. On the other hand, even direct slander of the representatives of the majority religion of our country and of the Finns of Finland is generally accepted, and it has not been customary to distribute penalties. Nothing in the world should be so sacred that it should not be subjected to critical public scrutiny. We must not sacrifice freedom of expression on the altar of political correctness. Justifiable restrictions on freedom of expression, i.e. the protection against defamation and threats to life and health, are fully justified, but no other restrictions are needed in legislation on freedom of expression. Mr President! Broad freedom of expression is part of Western freedom and democracy. The preservation of freedom of expression is an important social value which must not be touched more than is necessary in view of the importance of freedom of expression in the democratic rule of law. Mr President! With reference to what I mentioned above, I warmly support this initiative by Mr Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u106	Mr President! This initiative in favour of freedom of expression is very much to be welcomed for the reasons which have already been well expressed in previous speeches. The need for this amendment of the law is obvious because the current legislation is applied in practice to silence people and the interpretation of the law by the police and the authorities is, in the worst case scenario, even political. Unfortunately, the fact that these interpretations are political could even have been the intention of the original legislators of the law. Now that we are looking at the original draft law, when this law was enacted in the Committee on Legal Affairs in 93, under the leadership of Tarja Halonen, who was then president, to put it mildly, it was quite similar to that of Mr Huhtasaari. In other words, the original draft law introduced such a sound wording, which is easily understandable, that ‘a threat of crime or violence is not a threat to different groups of people’, but that the Committee on the Law is changing this form,that is We all understand the issue of threatcrimination,but this ‘impositioning’ and ‘seizing’ are nowterms,however cause the problem. And these three main problems in the current law in terms of legal certainty and the level of legislation are, in my view, as follows: The first problem is the arbitrary and unclear nature of legislation. When a citizen acts in society, he must be able to know whether he is following the law or whether he is breaking the law. Now that is not the case. The citizen does not know different things about different peoples when he says whether he is following this law or whether he is breaking it. It is only the case-law that will determine what is going on here. In general, this is a bad feature of the legislation, and we should try to get rid of it. The second problem is that the offence is criminalised. No offense or feelings of injury should be criminalized. It cannot be that when someone gets hurt, then society condemns this alleged offender. It must be based on objective criteria. In other words, freedom of expression cannot be confined to accepted and permitted opinions. We don't live anywhere in the Soviet Union. The third problem with this legislation is that speaking the truth can also be criminalised. An insult to honor, to be a crime, must be a false claim. There must be a false claim about another person that defamation can be condemned, but incitement against the people can be condemned by a completely truthful person. How can it be that in the Western rule of law a real speaker can be condemned in theory to two years’ absolute imprisonment for this speaking of truth? Mr President! All three of these shortcomings in the rule of law would be remedied with this bill. I therefore expect Parliament to approve this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u107	Mr President! Mr Huhtasaari's initiative and the clarification of the criminal code contained therein must be fully supported. Threatening and inciting criminal acts is also reprehensible. At present, however, incitement to the people is such an interpretative law that an opinionist cannot know in advance whether or not he is violating it. How can it be that a person has been convicted before anyone even turns himself on? The law has also been interpreted arbitrarily in such a way that the same act can be judged or dismissed, depending entirely on the person who makes the statement. Such a lack of interpretation is likely to stifle the debate on sensitive issues. So where is the limit of freedom of expression? If the criticism leads to a grievances, then, in the worst case, we no longer dare to disagree with the policies or religious views pursued. And when an open debate is suppressed, the problems themselves will only get worse. According to the works of the law, only minority groups are protected by the article. The interpretations of the courts support this idea. So the law is not common, as criminal law should be. For example, all thieves get some kind of sanction and it does not involve being part of a group. Why, then, should the law work only in one direction? Often the most criticised political ideas and religions are the very ones who themselves spread ideas about the superiority or inferiority of other groups of people. Mr President! Article 19 of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights reads as follows: ‘Everyone has a right to freedom of opinion and a right to freedom of expression, without prejudice to his or her right to have his or her opinion held and to have his or her Article 30 of the Declaration states:‘In any of this Declaration,the interpreting body Freedom of expression is one of the fundamental rights and pillars on which our entire Western society is built. The first sign of an unfair social order is often the absence of freedom of expression. Such North Korean freedom of expression, in which anything can be said about anything but the consequences must suffer, is hardly freedom of speech at all. On the basis of the above, I support the initiative taken by Mr Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u108	Mr President! The Finns defend freedom of expression; it is also visible and audible at the moment in this Chamber. Freedom of expression is an important issue for the realisation of democracy. Unfortunately, however, the spirit of time is that not all issues should be discussed openly in public, even if they are important social themes. The debate must always be on the agenda, there are no two words about it. Yet we must be able to talk about all the problems. There cannot be just one generally accepted truth, which is reinforced by the exclusion of discussions by those from the opposite perspective without justifications that are not limping. The article “Caging Against the People’s Group ”is well-founded for the purpose From the point of view of freedom of expression, the article is problematic because it leaves too much room for discretion in the arbitrary interpretation of the judiciary as to how it is applied at any time. The participants in the public debate should always have the opportunity to find out what can and cannot be spoken with reasonable effort. ‘Crazing against the nationalgroup’is a step that does Representative Huhtasaari's bill must be supported on the basis of freedom of expression and the clarification of the rules of the game. For example, it must be possible to speak more openly about the problems of immigration, and restricting freedom of expression must not help sweep social problems under the carpet. People should have the right to express their opinions, because freedom of expression is a fundamental fundamental right that must be safeguarded. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u109	Mr President! It is typical in the history of the world and of societies that the opposition against the power elite is being silenced in one way or another. The silence of the people has taken place in different periods of time by various means, civilised or less civilized. But it is never civilized. People’s opinions can be silenced either by the threat of violence, by the threat of punishment, for example by prison sentences, or by social influence and by means of social influence, by which the authority can seek to direct the mainstream of people. In the Western world in recent years, this new way of restricting the freedom of expression of the opposition has emerged and is a hate speech term. It aims to prevent the debate on undesirable topics for the authorities. Like Mr Huhtasaari, I am also concerned about the direction in the EU as a whole in which the Commission has proposed that EU funding should be tied to the value base. This will address the democratic decisions of the nation states. True Finns feel that nation states should be independent. It is very regrettable that the Sipilä-Sitting Government has, in principle, supported this Commission proposal. The Sipilä government has expressed its support for this in Brussels.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u112	Mr President! I am sorry to see how few other than the Finns are here. Congressman Heinonen is here. And it's nice to have others here. In recent years we have talked very much about the limits of freedom of expression, what is hate speech, and what is nice talk, and now that we have had the opportunity to discuss it together here and here, and not always to argue on the pages of the magazines alone, so sadly now no one is here — not even to resent us, as usual, that would have been all right. Good opinions were expressed here and I am not going to repeat them all. Representative Huhtasaari has brought this performance with great courage. Surely this will be a debate and a start will be made on whether Mr Huhtasaari and the Finns of Finland now want to remove the fact that not just anything can be said to people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u115	Mr President! So we are dealing with a bill prepared by Mr Huhtasaari, the representative of the Finns of Finland, to clarify and restrict the regulation of freedom of expression. As a representative Mr Immonen said in his speech that there was a strong link between a functioning democracy and freedom of expression. It is easy for us Finns to agree with this view. We will soon see, for example, how Mr Heinonen of the Coalition Party views this issue. He has the floor next. Mr President! The current definition of criminal law as an arousal against the people has sometimes led to interpretations in the courts, where even a slight criticism of different groups of people could be considered to be intended by criminal law as an arousal against the people, although the original purpose of the critic was obviously merely to raise the social flaws he had observed in public debate. This has been the case, for example, in situations where views have been expressed on terrorist acts or sexual and violent crime and calls for the root causes and prevention of acts. Problems have been caused, in particular, by the fact that, in almost all cases, in the case of incitement to incitement against the people's groups, it has never been possible to foresee the existence of a criminal offence in relation to the content of the law or its justification. Mr President! This is a very serious problem, particularly from a point of principle but also from a practical point of view, in the rule of law in the West, and therefore the criminal law absolutely needs to be clarified and clarified in this respect. Otherwise, the current state of law which is highly open to interpretation can lead to unnecessary self-censorship, which is likely to slow down or prevent the correction of social inadequacies. We may even have to go back in time to 1984. The proposal for a new Article in the bill by Mr Huhtasaari is also justified by the fact that even the presentation of statistical facts can, in the worst case, be regarded as a criminal offence, unless the criminal law is quickly clarified in this respect. Therefore, the Criminal Code should be amended so that the threat or incitement to a criminal act of the author's purpose must be clearly indicated by the expression he uses before he can be convicted of inciting against the people. This is also the essence of a well-supported legislative initiative by Mr Huhtasaari. I therefore support this initiative by Mr Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u116	Mr President! I would like to thank you for these excellent speeches that the Finns of Finland have made here. So the restriction of freedom of expression and totalitarianism always go hand in hand. The social problems and other problems in Finland and the rest of Western Europe are not caused by too much free speech, but by the policies pursued and the mistakes that citizens are right to be angry about. This is not the right reason for restricting freedom of expression because we want to prevent hate speech or Russian information or something else, but because there are no arguments. When there are no valid arguments for the views, inaccuracies or inaccuracies expressed by the Finns, then we will take this as an alternative way of restricting the speech so that ‘we must be freed from your speeches,we want to hear them,”because the authorities have never taken responsibility for the freedom of expression,because they are responsible. They will have to answer, and the people will see that their arguments do not stand the light of day compared to arguments such as those of the Finns of Peru and other nationalist arguments in Europe. In other words, there is no such hate speech legislation in the United States, which Europe has developed for self-censorship. The United States still has freedom of expression on a different level than we do in Europe. This is not even enough in Europe, but, as I pointed out in my previous speech, it is constantly being restricted. The rule of law is apparently located in Brussels or Strasbourg, or somewhere where it is dictated what kind of laws the Member States should legislate on. For example, if we have not tightened up enough hate speech legislation, they can reserve our own money. This is what they're trying to do. Who has the money, has the power, and the law constrains a person’s right to express his opinion. Does Mr Heinose feel that we have the same legislation as in the United States on freedom of expression? I see that Mr Heinonen's speech is next, so I ask whether you agree that we should have the same freedom of speech legislation as in the United States, and I ask whether you are not at all concerned that religions in Finland, for example, are not on an equal footing. Why do you make fun of Jesus, but Muhammad doesn't? Why does Islam enjoy special law enforcement, but Christianity does not? All the rule of law really comes out of equality. I would very much like to hear the answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u117	Mr President! I personally am in favour of freedom of expression, and opinions should not be curbed. In my opinion, this is what Finland is doing. We have broad freedom of expression and freedom of opinion, and there is no attempt to silence the opposition or the people in Finland or to silence them through any legislation. This is not the case in Finland. After this bill, which is presented by the True Finns, slander and abuse would be permitted. I am not in favour of it, because I think that the current legislation states quite well that ‘the public may or may not have access to information, opinion or other communication that is available to the public on grounds such as race, colour, origin, national or ethnic origin, religion, sexual orientation or disability’. I personally believe that on these grounds no one should be threatened, slandered or insulted. I am not in favour of this type of bill that would change this very working practice, which is currently in place, nor is this current legislation in force taking a stand on what religion is about, but religion and belief, everyone, are on the same page here. I believe that we have good and effective legislation and every one of us has the right to express our views. We have effective freedom of expression, but good manners are also part of civilization, the culture of the heart and everything else, and it does not include threats, but neither does slander or slander, which the Finns of Peruvian origin claim to be removed from the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u118	Mr President! To Mr Heinos, for the record, what is a good way is quite different from what is punishable under criminal law — for which there is a monopoly on violence in society and for which that monopoly on violence in society is not used — is quite different from good practice. Mr Heinonen should have been here to listen to this whole debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u121	Mr President! As I pointed out in my speech, the Finns of Peru always take special care to reduce freedom of expression, because without freedom of expression we do not really have democracy. But the kind of communication that threatens the health or freedom of the individual or slanders him in a way that fulfils the characteristics of defamation — Mr Heinonen, slandered or insulted in a way that satisfies the characteristics of defamation: we want to keep this section in the law. We only want to remove this arbitrary section, which certainly does not, if we look at the judgments that have been given, comply with the principle of equality. You know how much I have been mocked, for example, by my own beliefs, and so must people's ideology, convictions, but then they should also be judged by the Muslim and not just Huhtasaari, who is a Christian. According to the case law of the Court of Human Rights, freedom of expression is a fundamental foundation of a democratic society. Without freedom of speech, we will not evolve. Without freedom of speech we have no other freedoms and they can be taken away from us piece by piece. That is why defending it is the most important thing in a free society. According to Article 10 of the Convention on Human Rights, freedom of expression applies not only to such information and ideas, which, Mr Heinonen, are viewed with sympathy or which are regarded as harmless or unitary, but also to those that offend, shock and disturb. Freedom of speech does not mean freedom of speech; freedom of expression means freedom of expression and opinion. We want to rationalise this section and, as I said, there is no such provision in the United States.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u124	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate, everyone. I would like to ask Mr Heinos a few questions: So what do you find slanderous and abusive speech to be? Where is the line between abusive and non-violent, slanderous and non-punishing speech? At least I can't define this limit on my own. Remember, too, that if one of these words gets hurt, it is always a subjective experience. Someone might get hurt. Someone else won't get hurt. The second question is, then, where do you think there is a limit to permitted and unauthorized speech? I think that no one in this Chamber can point that line. How can a custom citizen know what to say, what not to say? We cannot have such legislation, which leaves it so open to interpretation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u125	Mr President! It is very good that Mr Heinonen is here to defend the line of the present-day Assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u126	Mr President! It is now important that this becomes clear to the public once and for all that it is the Finns of Finland against others. It is in many ways like this. The Finns only defend Finland's sovereignty, direct democracy, listening to the people, freedom of speech, freedom, Europe of independent states. Other parties have already submitted to EU federalism and then believe what the EU decides. They ask the EU what we think. They are excited to give more money to the EU and simply say that even the euro is fantastic. It is very sad that the coalition party — home, religion and country — as I too appreciated when I was younger — is in this state or all the other parliamentary parties here are in this state. My grandparents did not defend Finland's independence and freedom because we future generations here will then give away this freedom, decision-making power and everything. But the Finns do not give up. True Finns will continue to defend their country, freedom and freedom of speech. Our policy designer Riikka Purra wrote on Twitter, when the Coalition Party and the Democrats have now announced that they will not involve the Finns of Peru to accelerate immigration, change the population and bow to Brussels, and it was quite clear what the Coalition Party and the Democrats are driving. We do indeed have a two-party system in Finland, the Finns against the others. But I believe that reason prevails at the end. It's got to win. The Finns of Peru also bring patriotic wind to Finland. Fortunately, it has already left Europe. There will be a lot of misery before that, because the change will not happen suddenly, but we will bring this new normal, which means freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u127	Mr President! I was wondering how I managed to write hundreds of opinions in my life, I managed to write thousands of Twitter messages, I managed to write thousands of social media updates, participate thousands of times in opinion debates, I disagree, I sometimes agree with others, and so on — and I have never faced the problem of not being able to share my opinion in this country. And by the way, I have also made thousands of speeches, public speeches, in which I have been able to express my own opinion freely in free Finland. I have not once once come to accuse Chapter 11, Section 10 of the Criminal Code, of inciting against a group of people when I have not had to threaten anyone, I have not had to slander anyone, I have not had to insult anyone for any reason — but neither has race, colour, origin, national or ethnic origin, nor religion or belief, nor sexual orientation or disability. I have also been able to discuss these issues properly, as is the Finnish freedom of speech for each of us. We have a great, functional freedom of speech that everyone can use.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u128	Mr President! This arousal against the people is deliberately so open to interpretation that once the culprit has been found, the cause will also be brought about. On Facebook there is constant banning and, as I have already pointed out, some EU countries, such as Germany and France, have tightened these social media by legislating that they will be subject to severe periodic penalty payments if there are misconceptions there. If Mr Heinonen is always of the right mind, you will not yet be affected by restrictions on freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u133	Mr President! In that sense, I very much agree with what Mr Heinonen has just said, that I myself have been able to write opinion papers, write on social media and I have not been penalised in this way. But, Mr Heinonen, when you are also active in that field and on Twitter and social media and you are following that picture of time and the world there, this hate speech term must have become very familiar to you. However, the term hate speech is linked and is very closely related to such criminalisation as incitement against the people. Because that hate speech has not been criminalized — I assume that you are not the ones who are going to take the initiative here, and yours, The Sipilä Government has not made it a criminal criminal offence — such situations have led to the fact that to a very large extent there is this arousal against the people. And yet that hate speech has become more and more intense, which has been reflected in the fact that people are being banned on Facebook because they write in the wrong way. And their opinions there may not be in any way wrong, it may be very harsh, harsh, or rude, offensive, but freedom of speech includes the fact that when you debat when you tell your own opinions, it involves the possibility that you may be seriously offended. Even here in Parliament, sometimes someone gets hurt, and there's nothing you can do about it, and that's normal. The problem with this arousal against the people is precisely when it is not precise. If a criminal law relating to freedom of expression, which has a restriction on freedom of expression, is not precise, then even if you, Mr Heinonen, have so far been able to hold that debate without having come from it to the judgment, then unfortunately the existence of such a law will make it possible for you next to be the one who will be sent to judgment, that you will be the next.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u134	Mr President! It is, of course, extremely good that Mr Heinonen has never been subjected to such censorship. That tells us that you have clearly been right about things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u137	Ladies and gentlemen! From which factory each of us has come here, I think it is the choice of the people, and it is not very correct to go to this Chamber to judge or question what is the background of the person from which he was elected here. We all have our own background from where we've been chosen here. Let it not be the subject of questioning any individual representative. — Mr Heinonen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u138	Mr President! I myself have tried here to defend Finnish freedom of expression and freedom of opinion. If, for example, a ban means that someone in social media is blocking someone else, I do not find any connection to it, nor have I in any way understood that there would have been a breach of Chapter 11, Section 10 of the Criminal Code. I am sure that everyone will do what they want in such channels, but I do not have the danger, Mr Tavio. I may have to go to court, you can report me for example, my opinion writing, but I am sure I will not be judged on the basis of this legislation on my writings, for I will never threaten, slander, insult any group on the basis of race, colour, origin, national or ethnic origin, religion or belief, sexual orientation or disability. I have no fear, just as most Finns do, because they know how to behave properly, how to disagree with these things, can write and yet not threaten, slander or insult them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u139	Mr President! Yes, it is good to live in the faith that such inaccurate criminalisation, which limits freedom of speech, would not hit me, or any of us, until that happens. This sentence, which has already been raised here at the time of the current Chairman of the Finns Party, Halla-aho, was so like a border case that I still find it difficult to understand the way that Halla-aho's blog text was then abused in an illegal way. In other words, in practice, everyone who is considering this issue, this section and this idea should go through the Halla-aho case carefully. The problem with this incitement against the people is also that, while I am in favour of a certain level of minority protection, this group of people, which is mentioned here, is always in practice the minority group. This has been the case in practice. According to the case-law, even this has not given this right to the Finnish people's group. But the Finns of Peru have often pointed out that we are a very small minority people on earth, a small people of only 5 to 6 million people, whereas in Iraq alone, it is said, hundreds of millions of people, citizens, and this imbalance is evident in the fact that this is a section and a criminalisation, which then protects the Iraqis here again, for example, but this article does not protect the Finns, and in that sense there is also, in my opinion, a great imbalance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u140	Mr President! A comment on this debate on self-restriction and internal censorship of social media. In other words, this debate has now expanded somewhat on what is the scope of this legislative initiative, that is, these bans on social media are not about criminal liability or incitement to the public group, but about social media censoring itself in the fear of these periodic penalty payments and hate speech. Such legislation currently exists abroad. It does not actually exist in Finland, but at some point, for example, the President of the Republic has, in my memory, flashed that this could also be considered in Finland, which means that we do not have the threat away from it. However, we are talking about a broader framework at the moment and what is happening in Europe, but we know that the phenomena that exist in Europe will sooner or later probably also come to Finland, that is to say, this kind of legislation will certainly be discussed here. But that is not the key point of this bill in my view. Again, this mentioned Halla-aho blog text: in my view, the verdict was more about the prosecution authority slapping a politician when the prosecutor was challenged at an intellectual level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u141	Mr President! As this debate shows, Mr Heinonen does not really want to understand what this is all about. I mean, this is so obvious. This margin of interpretation will be used as a political strike gun and against political opponents in order to silence them and make them so-called criminals. There's also often a story in the papers that there's a certain group of people with a lot of crimes. Then when you look at the crime, your fingers have been on the keyboard again, there are bad things written, and they are suspected of arousaling one and another. But this piousness would be over for a while. Mr Heinonen stressed that he did not slander, insult or apparently discriminate or isolate, for example, because of political opinion. True Finns are in Finland. We're being slandered all the time. We're being insulted all the time. They want to isolate us, they want to discriminate against us, and they want to give us permission to focus hate speech on us. So we are accused of what is being targeted at us, and then they still have the law behind this when the Finns of Peru have political opinion. This is precisely the political opinion that we are advocating, and the legislation is intended to prevent the debate. As I said, the real reason is that when arguments are not working out, we need to silence the debate by means of legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u142	Mr President! I will correct: in my earlier speech, I intended to say that there are hundreds of millions of people in the Middle East. So there are 37 million citizens in Iraq itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u143	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u144	Mr President! I'm presenting the law on the amendment of the Military Injury Act. Now are the last moments to put the services of war veterans in order. We have been talking about the situation of veterans in this Chamber for decades. You can hear beautiful words from politicians' mouths about veterans, especially in the ears of Independence Day, but by Christmas it will feel like they have been forgotten again. We Finns have consistently promoted the cause of veterans. We have put in place a number of parliamentary measures aimed at improving their situation. My legislative initiative now under discussion is one clear amendment which, once it has passed, would improve the daily lives of thousands of veterans. The initiative proposes to extend home services to all veterans of our wars. The aim is to support all veterans and to promote their well-being and to strengthen the appreciation of veterans as honorary citizens of our society. Services of particular importance to elderly veterans include services related to housing, care, care, maintenance of functional capacity, services and the performance or assistance of tasks and activities of everyday life. Some 700,000 soldiers served in Finland’s wars between 1939 and 1945. In addition, 95,000 women served immediately in positions supporting the front. The number of casualties was about 94,000, and the number of permanent injuries was the same. There are about 15,000 Veterans alive today. The work of those who have served in wars in front of 100-year-old independent Finland is invaluable, so it is justified to extend the number of persons entitled to benefits defined by the Military Injury Act to cover all persons who served in Finnish wars between 1939 and 1945. Their average age is currently about 93 years, so changes in the law to improve their status are very urgent. In addition, the number of veterans is decreasing, but at the same time, as a result of the high age, the need for treatment is increasing. As a result, there is a greater need for various support services in relation to the number of veterans. Due to the need for care that has changed as a result of departure and ageing, it would be justified to organise home services under the Social Welfare Act for all persons who served in Finnish wars from 1939 to 1945. War veterans and war veterans must be brought to the same line in terms of services. I therefore propose in the bill that all those who served in those years be replaced by the Social Welfare Act (1301/2014) Mr President! When institutional care is reduced, it is these home services that are increasingly important. Words don't help a veteran's everyday life. There is a need for concrete legislative changes and money to improve the conditions of our honourable citizens. This certainly requires the euro from the state treasury, but you would think that the money would be available from the speeches. Some may think that this improvement would come far too late. I note that there are still these 15,000 veterans of our wars. In their case, the passing of the law would certainly not be in vain. This is a message to the government directly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u145	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Elomaa for a good bill. In fact, together with Elomaa, we have been putting this issue on the agenda for years, and I am pleased that during the current Minister of Finance, Mr Petteri Orpo, we have followed the joint parliamentary decision so that the appropriations have not been able to run out in the middle of the year, that is, a supplementary proposal has always been made at that stage, if the situation seems to be inadequate for those for whom today's legislation is guaranteeing these services. But I fully agree with Mrs Elomaa that it is high time that the care and support services of our veterans and the war ombudsmen — all these women and men who have contributed to the defence of our country — were aligned. The average age of veterans is 93 years, which alone requires better services and care. In fact, at the beginning of this year there were 14,000 Veterans alive and now less than 12,000. Of them, fewer than 2,000 are left. The average age of respectable citizens is already 93 years, and this, without, for example, being wounded or not, means a high need for care. Veterans' organisations and the Veterans' Advisory Board, to which we are a member with Elomaa, both have suggested that front veterans who participated in the wars between 1939 and 45, who have a military code, a military service code or a military code, should be replaced by open services similar to those provided to military electors under the Military Injury Act. Young people were commanded by the Finnish State, and these young men, young children, these young women, many girls, obeyed and went to defend the country. The country must also assume responsibility for them in the evening of their lives. Until ten years ago, there were nearly 100,000 veterans among us, 17,000 a year ago, and only 12,000 today, and it is estimated that only about half of this, or 6,000 next year. Last night's cry to honor citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u146	Mr President! This initiative is very welcome and important. We have a debt of honor to the veterans of our wars. They are all elderly at the moment, and most people need some kind of help, regardless of whether they were injured in the war. This initiative seeks to bring about a correction. I therefore hope that Parliament will now deal with this matter at the latest, so that all veterans will have home services for the remaining years. We must be able to afford this subjective right.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u147	Mr President! This bill, drawn up by the representative of Elomaa and also signed by other representatives of the People's Republic of Finland, proposes the payment of our debt of honour to veterans of wars during 1939-45 by providing them with home services in accordance with the Social Welfare Act. This bill by Mrs Elomaa is very welcome and I have indeed signed it myself. In the past, the Finns of Peru have been very hard on the veterans’ cause, and this bill is a continuation of the work. Mr President! Representative Elomaa gave a very good presentation explaining the importance of the legislative initiative. For our country, the very heavy war years 1939-45 determined the fate of independent and democratic Finland. If the veterans had not made an invaluable contribution to our country in those years, it would certainly be a very different country to live and live in. We would have fallen into the Eastern bloc of unwitting countries, and the liberation from the yoke of communism would not have been easy even after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Referring to the debate in the previous paragraph, for example, the state of our freedom of expression would probably have been much worse. Mr President! Unfortunately, the number of veterans has decreased very rapidly as time passed. Only a little more than ten thousand of them are still alive, and in five years' time the number of veterans will be a small fraction of the current natural exodus. As noted in the Elomaan bill, as veterans age, their need for care will also increase significantly. That is why it is necessary to secure the home services that we are proposing for veterans, even if it happens very late in the day. This bill is very urgent and, like all other Finns, I hope that it will be dealt with quickly in committee and approved in plenary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u148	Mr President! Representative Elomaa, who has taken this initiative, is a very patriotic person, and for us, the Finns Party, veterans are very important. I would like to thank Mrs Elomaa for having taken this bill, not just for this bill, but for always keeping the veterans' case on the agenda. For representative Elomaa, it is really a matter of heart, and it has been brought up in all things, just as the rest of us in the True Finns did. This is an important topic and a theme. Indeed, between 1939 and 1945, our veterans did not go off to war elsewhere. They stayed to defend this country. That's why we can sit here in Parliament today. I understand that this initiative in a nutshell means that the veterans are on the same line despite the injury and all the necessary care and care. Have I, Congressman Elomaa, understood this nutshell?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u151	Mr President! This is the last moment to pay the debt of honor to the veterans of our country. In practice, the implementation of this bill would bring relief to the difficult and economically tight days of old age for veterans of our wars. I would stress that adequate funding must not be a threshold, it must not be a budgetary issue, because we are in a situation where there will soon be no more veterans among us. With regard to funding and budgetary issues, we must also take account of this situation, which has already been discussed here, where veterans are rapidly decreasing. As a result, the amount agreed up to now by the State on the budget for veterans will also fall, which means that funds will also be released from the budget in the coming years. However, there are things that cannot be measured in money, and it is an honour for Finland to provide a framework for a decent life for the last living veterans.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-24-ps-55.u152	Mr President! The average age of our war veterans is already so high that we can't wait any longer if we want to do something for them. Despite embellishment and promises, the government has been far too passive for years to promote the well-being of veterans. Every year, veterans have to come to the Parliament House with a hat on their hands to ask for more money. This should not be the case. This is absolutely shocking, and it will make you feel ashamed to be the decision-maker. There is much room for improvement in veteran services in many localities. The level of services provided by veterans largely depends on the place where they live, as the practices of municipalities vary dramatically in the case of services intended for veterans. In some municipalities, the need for services will be assessed all the way home, while in others only the service vouchers will be mailed and the veteran himself will be able to think about what he wants to do with them. Services that make it easier for veterans to live at home have been allocated a little more money by the state, which is, of course, a move in the right direction. Sometimes part of this appropriation is not used by municipalities. The rapid decline in the number of veterans partly explains this surplus, but unfortunately often underutilisation is due to poor planning. The situation of veterans should always be assessed on the spot. For example, insufficient food supplies are a common problem. For example, if there are problems with cooking, is a meal delivered three times a week sufficient? That's not enough. There is also a general need for assistance in applying for aid. For example, the veteran supplement is too often not applied for, even if it is entitled. Then it would be good if a professional knocked on the door to offer his help. Some municipalities try to make sure that the services supporting the home of veterans are in order over the last one — no matter what the cost. On the other hand, you don't care. Mr President! Of the large cities Turku and Kuopio have refurbished as veteran home service providers and used the additional funds available for this purpose. There are also many municipalities where things have been handled properly. Nor can the value of volunteering be sufficiently commended. Without it, the veterans would be even worse off. In my opinion, each municipality should have a comprehensive service plan to organise home services in order to make the job work. Aid must not fall short of poor administrative skills or lack of marketing. Contrary to popular belief, the Front Veterans' Federation, the Finnish War Veterans' Federation, the War Valids' Brotherhood and the Fallen Family The union does not bathe in money, and government support is needed. A significant improvement in the current situation would be that veterans would receive benefits similar to those of the war veterans who were disabled in the war. This would also put all the veterans of our wars on the same line. In practice, the health gap between the war veterans and the veterans is no longer great. My bill is therefore justified in terms of equality and regional equality. I very much hope that there will be room for the government to take care of this matter. Mr President! My entire parliamentary term, so far seven years, has been the most impressive moment when, before Independence Day in 2011, almost a hundred veterans of our wars marched here. They had medals on their chest — elderly people, elderly veterans, many were in wheelchairs — and they came to show up and announce that they existed and alive, and that, government and decision-makers, have you noticed. And there was a need for additional funding back then. This job has been going on the same way almost every year. This matter of veterans has always been important to the Finns. We remember even Tony Halme years ago, driving the veterans' cause hard. Personally, it's important to me, too, because my father was at war and was wounded three times. In this respect, I have been very closely involved. Father already died in 1984, and that was another year that appeared in the year — and all the previous years — that some even asked what you went to war there. So that appreciation was not received by veterans and was not so widely understood. Today, their importance is understood, but the necessary, adequate funding is still lacking. I hope that there will soon be an improvement on this from the government. I'm sure there's a will, but it still has to be concrete. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Mäkelä, Mr Saviota, Mr Huhtasaar and Mr Huhtasaar. Mr Taviota and Mr Heino have made very good statements of support to move this law forward. - Thank you.
