ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, for the first time in the history of Finland, this proposal addresses the problems associated with the use of so-called zero-hour contracts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u5	Thank you. — I am sure we would like to have a quick debate on this, about half an hour. I'll ask you to book with a V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u6	Madam President! It is excellent that Mr Lindström and the Sipilä Government have come up with this proposal, which has long been dreamed of, and we have of course heard from the opposition that nothing has been done, but that is what is happening here. Of course, I would have liked this proposal to have come at some time in previous governments, but unfortunately it has not come, but here it is. In any case, this same attitude should continue to be taken into account in such situations. There is a genuine need to develop legislation in the direction that we genuinely develop the legislation on the problematic employment relationships in the direction of genuine employment. As Minister Lindström put an end to this proposal in his own speech, 18 hours there will be that limit, and then it will start to accumulate all the required amounts, these amounts of unemployment benefits will begin to accumulate there. This is an important point, and now we have acted and have not complained.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u7	Mr President! It is good to do all the work that can be done in Finland. This bill approaches the fact that the worker has the opportunity to reconcile and reconcile several so-called shorter-term jobs in such a way as to bring the pay which comes out of them closer to it and to meet the condition of doing better than in the past. This proposal, for example, has dealt with this so-called zero-labour agreement in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities and its problems have been taken into account in the best possible way. I am pleased with the outcome of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u8	Mr President! I welcome the fact that this law specifies what we already have in the Employment Contracts Act specifically for the protection of employees in relation to zero-hour contracts. But the other side is that in a certain way we accept a zero-hour agreement. I would therefore like to ask the Minister a simple answer as to whether, after this law, it is possible for a person to have zero hours for several weeks, even if he has a contract of employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u9	President! It is extremely self-deception to believe that there will not be a situation like zero-hour contracts in the future. Work is changing, work in the future is different for many, work life is changing. It is therefore extremely important that we create fair rules for zero-hour contract thinking. An employee cannot be an employer’s torpedo in chains, but the other way around, because of the situation in life, such a situation as a zero-hour contract is appropriate from time to time. In particular, I see that this is where the rules of the game are being established. This is a good start. When you see in practice what this has led to, then there is an opportunity, an opportunity, to revise the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u10	Mr President! Thank you when it is time to thank you, and in this context I thank the Government and especially the Minister for Employment, Lindström. It is a good thing that the rules of the game are clarified, but I would like to hear some further clarifications on two points: In the future, these zero-hour contracts can only be concluded as necessary, but how is this need defined? I would like a more precise answer to this. Just as Mrs Filatov has just pointed out in her speech, are the zero-hour contracts new normal, and is there a risk that, above all, large companies will start using this new normal?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u11	Mr President! Of course, this government proposal is a step for the better, but a very small step if it is compared with promises, expectations or the need for what we have in relation to the zero-hour agreements and the related problems. This government proposal does not solve the disproportionate situations we have in the labour market due to zero-hour contracts. It does not provide the means by which individuals on the labour market can defend their own rights. This is a good start, but it is only the beginning that we are trying to solve the problems of zero-hour contracts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u12	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Lindström for keeping his promise. When this was discussed earlier in the form of a citizens' initiative, he said that this will be corrected, I promise, and now it is on the table. I am pleased that the zero-labour agreement now comes under guidance and regulation. As has been said here, there is much room for improvement, but we must always rejoice in the good beginnings that are given, because then the rest may be better. The committee is now left with a great deal of responsibility here, and I am delighted that the members of the committee are here to speak, because there we can, so to speak, put this to the finish line. We believe that the government too has a good will to have this in place so that we can all be satisfied in the end, so once again thank you for this good start.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u13	Mr President! There are indeed improvements in this bill, for example in the pay of notice and sick pay, but of course these things should be taken for granted for every employee. I have three questions for the Minister: First, however, when it does not introduce the consolidation of working time, much was said about it at that earlier stage, I ask: why not continue to do so? Then this law says that zero-hour contracts must always have a basis. Could the Minister now simply spell out what kind of agreements must not be made? And thirdly, does the Minister really think that this law will provide adequate legal protection for those who work on a zero-hour contract?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u14	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for his excellent work. There are 83,000 jobs in Finland with varying working hours of this kind, but 30 per cent of them are full-time. This also brings a distortion of competition. In this case, it is precisely in the case of a variable working time contract that there may still be situations in which different employer contributions are paid at different levels than in the case of a permanent contract of employment. This brings a clear improvement now in the terms and conditions of the workers. And what the committee has also discussed: it is precisely the predictability of one's own hours of work, the setting of a schedule of shifts three weeks in advance are those things that give the worker the certainty that his own work will take place at the same time and that other tasks will be carried out at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u15	Madam President! I welcome the fact that we are now discussing the status of the zero-hour contract. There has been mention here of the pay for sickness and notice periods, but if the employment contract has zero hours, it does not have a great deal of effect yet. However, when I look at this proposal, I would like to ask the Minister in detail myself, because we heard in committee about the cases in which all workers could be covered by a zero-hour agreement, and because it is now possible and otherwise: is it possible in future that all workers, for example, can be covered by a zero-hour agreement? At least I can't find such clear, concrete entries in this performance, which would prohibit their use in such situations. We have also proposed this consolidation of working time. So if an employee does a certain number of hours, should he not be established as contract hours then this? I would like to ask: could this be taken into account in further work?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u16	Mr President! It is very good that progress is being made on this issue of a zero-hour contract because, as we know, these workers have been very disadvantaged in the labour market, and this weakness in general has been due, for example, to this unpredictability of work and other similar issues. This bill now strikes me as a better balance between the responsibilities and responsibilities of both the employer and the employee, and that is an important issue. It may be said that this is not yet perfect, but I learned from Tehy’s former Honorary President, Toi Nousiainen, a proverb that ‘the evil enemy of the best of all’,and I thought that this was the way forward that good and then the best of them was taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u17	Mr President! Thank you for the fact that this zero-hour agreement has risen to the debate in this way, as you have done, Mr Lindström. A couple of years ago we had an event where Eetu — I don’t remember Eetu’s last name — was talking. Eetu told me of her own destiny. He had four zero-hour contracts and had made EUR 1,670 on the basis of these four zero-hour contracts in the previous month and EUR 67 in the following month. And on that occasion that Eeth asked: “Can we do something? I can't plan on starting a family, I can't plan on paying rent, buying a home, because it's so uncertain about the coming of income.” Now I ask you, Minister Lindström: has this problem in the Etetu problem come to an end in this proposal of yours, in this package of laws?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u18	Madam President! It is clear that this bill will bring improvement to the zero-hour contract people in the worst hole, but the big question is whether this bill will be betonized by zero-hour contracts or new variable-time contracts for Finnish working life, so that they are the new black, new normal labour market. But here are some good questions, one more question: What happens to part-time workers? If there is a variable working time contract in the future, you do not have to accept additional work, but if you have a part-time contract, you have to accept additional work. What kind of problem do you see in terms of equality on the one hand and the part-time directive on the other?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u19	Madam President! This is a good example of how the citizens' initiative can create processes that lead to something. But the idea in this Chamber now that it really would have been an excellent outcome, which would eliminate the problems of speculation and abuse by means of zero agreements in this country, should not be created.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u22	Madam President! I am very grateful for the good work done by Minister Lindström, who was able to do what the Left could not do in the previous government. Many of us know people who have not been paid sick hours, even though they have been on the work schedule for hours when they have fallen ill. Now this is going to be all right. It's a big deal. Mr Nurminen asked if he could continue to be a company with only zero-hour contracts. No, it cannot, because it is clearly stated here in the legislation that if there is a difference in labour demand between 20 and 30 hours, for example, a contract between 0 and 30 hours cannot be concluded but must be determined in relation to the need for working time. It is also very good that employers are compensated for loss of earnings in the event of dismissal. I think we should accept that there are varying working hours, but we must make the rules of the game in such a way that the worker can manage them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u23	Mr President! It is good to take up what Mr Kalmari has decided. I find it indisputable that the status of workers in zero labour contracts should be improved, as is done in this proposal. I admit it's been too weak. But at the same time we also have an undisputed need for jobs where variable working hours are a sensible way of increasing employment, that there is also the possibility of varying working hours. When the two things are weighed against each other, we must find a balance in which workers' rights are improved but not undermined by employment. I believe that this balance in this proposal is very well established, and this is a long step forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u24	Madam President! The Greens have certainly not supported the categorical ban on zero-hour contracts, and we welcome these reforms presented by Minister Lindström. Bringing this question into the law and its more precise regulation is certainly in everyone's interest. However, we have been very concerned about the insecurity of the worker's position, and it is good that these issues of insecurity are now being addressed in this proposal. But I would continue to emphasise what Mrs Aalto said, that when it comes to the fact that there will be no-hour contracts for varying working hours only if necessary, we would like this need to be clearly defined. I believe that in committee this work would be easy to do and, by defining the need, we could further improve the legal security of these people who are working for zero hours. What is remarkable is that for many life situations, a zero-hour employment contract may also fit well — even if it is in no way suitable for everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u25	Mr President! This is indeed a good start for these zero-hour contracts to be controlled, thanks for that. However, this is based on the so-called ten-list, which has been agreed separately, and this is one of the things that has been agreed as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u28	Madam President! It is a very important and wonderful thing that the needs of the worker and, above all, the situation in life are also taken into consideration here. The worker must never be the need-tested body that is a pawn in the workplace there. This is a good example of how humane it is to improve working conditions in these areas too. This is a big and important part of a larger entity, and thank you to this government led by Juha Sipilä that we have the courage to bring this up. The problem of zero-hour contracts is not a phenomenon that has risen in a couple of years; this has been known for a long time. What did the previous government do? Of the group responsible last season, only representative Aalto here has been able to say thank you to the Minister and the Government for this work. This is not perfect and ready, but it is a hundred times bigger than what the previous government has been able to do about it. Thank you for that! I am pleased to welcome this to our committee. We get to do important groundbreaking work for the benefit of a Finnish employee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u29	Mr President! This proposal can be regarded as a very good, balanced compromise. These new rules create, balance and clarify the rights and obligations of both workers and employers, but do not exclude the possibility of working and working flexibly. However, it is important in this society. We are living in a time when we are in the start-up economy and we need flexibility in working life, and I personally believe it is possible that these new rules of play can also increase the supply of work. And when employees will have the opportunity to know their future work schedules in good time, not only will there be opportunities for everyday planning, but it will also be easier to take into account several employer's job offers in the future. So this also serves the needs of this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u30	Mr President! In fact, Mr Lindström, this is in many respects a question of formalising and strengthening the zero-hour contracts, although it is said otherwise. Anyone who knows what is happening in the labour market is absolutely certain that if the need for an employer’s workforce varies, the number of hours worked varies. In this kind of asymmetrical relationship, which goes on the terms of the stronger party, we know what rules are played by, and a very painful example of this is that the obligation to provide additional work to the employer for the person who is working under the working hours has remained a dead letter until now, and even this current government proposal will undoubtedly make it possible for the employee to have a situation for weeks that there really is no working hours at all. A good model, which could have been followed, would be the PAM contract model, where when the number of hours worked rises to a certain level, it is the minimum amount from which to start negotiating a new agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u31	I will give four more replies, followed by the Minister's reply, and then we will move on to the list for at least a while. These four persons are representatives of Tolppanen, Elovaara, Viitanen and Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u32	Mr President! I think if the employment contract says zero, it is synonymous with unemployment. Don't you think, Minister? However, there should also be some kind of compensation or some kind of money in order to be able to live. What amazes me now is that it seems little that the existing employment contract law has not been read very carefully, because there is also scope for what has now been brought into this new bill. This now seems to give the employer a stronger right to dictate exactly what he wants. This does not, for example, impose an obligation on the employer to give work even if a contract of employment is concluded. Instead, it allows the employer to ban workers from working for another employer, if viewed from the point of view of competition law, and this is a very bad thing. This, by the way, had already been settled in this country for freelancers. Why wasn't it solved the same way here?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u33	Mr President! I do think that this proposal will eliminate the abuse of the zero-hour contract because it will introduce those rules of the game in terms of sickness and notice. It is true that, as a word, the zero-hour agreement may not be the most successful. However, it is a question of the employer trying to provide work according to what he is able to offer, and yes, this many who, for example, study, reconcile studies and work may even make it easier. As such, as a younger person, I believe that we should be able to look at working life with a little new eyes, because we know that it is becoming fragmented, it is changing. We need new legislation and solutions because there is no equivalent work to education anymore. There's just work and there's this changing world. So thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u34	Mr President! Yes, I have come to believe that the steps that are being taken here are very modest. I was looking at these statements, which have been said about this, and I think it is quite right to worry that this is now, however, a certain legalisation of the zero-hour contracts, and if they, as it were, strengthen this too thin security through this law, then this concern will remain with life and we will not get far enough. In this regard, Mr Uotila said that STT and SAK had doubts, and I myself, for example, found JHL suspecting that in some cases this might even weaken the position of the worker. That is, of course, a serious concern. I also noticed that this operation, which is behind this valuable citizens' initiative, has taken the view that the promise has been betrayed, that the government legalises the zero-hour contracts and that this proposal is unilaterally employer-friendly. This has been expressed by these actors themselves, and I would like to see views from the Minister on their position.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u35	Madam President! It is a pity that it is so difficult to give such commendation from the left side of the hall when the place for commendation is located. Minister Lindström, you have done an extremely good job. You're the man in place. Best labor minister in a long time. You will do what you promise, including with these zero-hour contracts, the employee's rules of play, ensuring that there is a balance between the employer and the employee — that employers will continue to employ, but there is a balance between workers having rights in relation to them, among other things. We must not put obstacles to that employment. It is undeniable that there are areas where full hours may not come for every worker, full hours to the extent that we might want. But if the alternative is that these employers do not employ at all, then it is always better to have even less hours. This will create rules for them. Thank you Juha Sipilä's Board of Directors and Minister Lindström in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u36	Then the Minister's answer, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your discussion, and for your proper feedback. Yes, yes, the committee is, of course, the place where these are going to be dealt with in real detail. Let us first of all go to the question of why there is no ban on variable working time contracts — I now use this term. In this debate, too, many have drawn attention to the fact that this proposal sought to strike a balance, because there is also a need for these variable working time agreements in working life. If we were to ban them altogether, it would mean that the employer's variable labour needs would be covered in some other way, such as temporary agency work, self-employed work, fixed-term contracts, or by making it extra or overtime with existing staff. Instead of denying it, this proposal seeks to find such solutions which allow variable working time contracts to be used as a single way of using the workforce while at the same time correcting the disadvantages associated with them. As many people have said, this is not perfect, but this is the first time that we have had rules of the game brought here, and in my opinion it is already a big leap — I would not consider this to be anything but a big leap. [Department : Excellent performance! — Antero Laukkanen’s interlude] Why, then, did the problems of varying working hours not be solved through the legal consolidation of this so-called working time? Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen asked this question, among other things. This legal consolidation would mean that working time during the period considered would constitute fixed working hours in the employment relationship. This could happen even if there were no changes in the conditions under which the employer would offer work. The employer's labour needs could still vary. Statutory consolidation could therefore lead to a non-corresponding working conditions which the employer could unilaterally change only on the basis of economic and productive dismissals. In such a situation, the employer should pay wages for a period for which there is no work to be offered, and this cost is out of place and would reduce the financial opportunities for the employer to employ other staff. Thus, through this mechanism, employment could be reduced. This stabilisation model could also be subject to unwanted labour planning. Thus, the employer could seek to influence the number of fixed hours of work by timing and dimensioning the job offer. Well, when should such a variable working time contract be made and when should not be done? The regulation proposed in this proposal creates a link between this working time condition and the need for labour. If the labour needs covered by the contract of employment are fixed, the working time condition should also be fixed. This requirement prevents the avoidance of employment security, since the use of variable working time contracts may now have been used, even though the same amount of work is always carried out. The use of such a variable working time condition could be motivated by a lack of flexibility on the part of the labour-law system. Different working hours should be agreed when the employer's labour needs vary. The dependency relationship between the working time condition and the need for labour is also reflected in the provision that the minimum working time included in the variable working time clause must not be agreed below the employer's labour needs. As I said in that presentation, if work is always offered between 20 and 30 hours, it is not allowed to agree on a contract of between 0 and 30 hours. So can this variable working time be agreed upon by the employee? The restrictions on variable working time only apply to situations where variable working time is agreed on the initiative of the employer. However, at the request of the employee, a variable working time should always be agreed upon. In this case, the new provisions applicable to the employment relationship also apply to the pay of sick periods, the salary of notice periods and the schedule of shifts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u38	And then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u39	Mr President! The Government’s proposal defines the objective as ‘to improve the status of variable workingtime workers and to ensure effective implementation of the provisions on In my view, this proposal does not meet the objectives set by the government itself on its cover. This proposal makes a number of minor changes which either strengthen the existing situation or change it slightly for the better. They are generally good changes. It has become a pain in the ass to bring the zeros into the law at the same time, but, as a rule, if we can also bring in the regulation of sickness and dismissal situations, then I do not consider it to be a bad thing in itself. The changes here are, as a general rule, in a good direction, but their scale is such that in no case can we talk about improving the status of workers who comply with variable working hours and ensuring effective implementation of the provisions on employment security. In my view, there are three specific questions which remain to be considered and resolved in committee: The first is when a variable agreement should not then be concluded. Is there a monitoring mechanism that objectively states that a variable agreement at this point is inappropriate? How does it work when the variable contract is not exactly defined by this law? If such a control mechanism exists, if such a definition of case law becomes established, the possibility of exemption at the request of the worker is problematic. In this house, too, it was customary in the olden days that when an employee asked for a fixed-term contract to be concluded without justification, the assistants’ employment contracts were concluded at the employee’s request for a fixed-term contract. I do not know any of the assistants who refused to grant permission to put it on the ‘request for an employee’, because in the event of a grant,the assistant had the possibility of having a wanted assistant’s job and absconded with abscond. And here we are talking about employees and jobs where things are pretty good. What about going to the wilder side of the labour market, where the position of workers is so weak that there is no such margin for negotiation? Another problem with this law is that it creates two different categories of part-time categorises in our workplaces, perhaps in the same workplaces, at least in parallel workplaces, with different rights. The spacers of variable work offer a wider right to refuse additional work than those of traditional part-time workers. In my view, this would be easy to resolve by removing the possibility of an absolute additional worker's consent for all part-time workers at all, but for some reason at least not yet. The third problem, and I think perhaps the most crucial one, and the most difficult one — and I do not have the answer — is how to deal with this stabilisation of working time. What do you do in situations when a person who comes into a house with a variable contract of employment regularly performs significantly longer hours of work than is guaranteed by his contract? Well, this proposal assumes that, at the employee's request, the actual working time can be examined and then changes made to the working conditions in the contract of employment. Once again, we are faced with a situation where we are dealing here with a labour market in which workers do not always have the negotiating power to negotiate on an equal footing. This is an unrealistic attempt to solve this problem. On the other hand, it is not realistic to propose that these conditions should always be automatically examined and changed. For example, if the conditions of the ski resorts were examined in March, the ski resorts would suddenly have 40-hour working week employees all summer, when there is no snow at all. Or a student whose working conditions will be examined in September when he has spent a long day in the summer, but in the winter he would like to do a shorter day and study at the same time. In other words, it is not possible to resolve this either by always automatically equalising working hours on the basis of what has been experienced. Perhaps some kind of solution to this could be some basic rule on automation, from which one could deviate for a legitimate reason, either the employer or the employee for a legitimate reason. These are the issues that we will now be discussing and discussing in committee in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u40	Mr President! This bill legitimises zero-hour employment contracts, and I therefore find it a little sad that, as I said, the worker's legal security remains weak, although there are still improvements to be made. For example, an almost direct quote from this bill: if the actual working time of the preceding six months shows that the agreed minimum working time does not correspond to the employer's actual labour needs, the employer must negotiate, at the employee's request, an amendment to the working time condition and, if he does not negotiate, the occupational safety and health authorities must be obliged to negotiate the change and, if no agreement can be reached, the employer must provide in writing an appropriate justification as to the manner in which the working time condition in force corresponds to the employer's labour needs. But what if this doesn't go anywhere? It is all right if there are good negotiating conditions in the workplace, as many workplaces do, and then this is the way it is going to play in the right direction. But unfortunately this is not always the case, and that is why I ask the Minister whether you really believe that this entry will give the worker sufficient legal certainty. At least I think, and the feedback I have received is similar, that there is a really big threshold for many workers to become very active in these matters, if there is a fear that after the activity hours go to zeros — as I am told, at least, that if the employee starts demanding his rights, then the hours at work will be reduced. And there's one more question I didn't remember to ask in the debat: What does this bill mean for temporary work? Perhaps it is in this bill, but at this point I was not able to read when I was not so committed to this bill. Can the Minister respond directly to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u41	Madam President! This proposal is particularly important in such a way that it is a direct extension of the spirit and objectives of the citizens' initiative. When this citizens' initiative 5/2015 was submitted, it was done, could you say, as well as was understood at that point in time, that it would be implemented? Parliament rejected this citizens' initiative, but five statements were adopted in connection with this initiative. These five statements show a clear language that the will state of the Parliament was this matter to take care of. The Ministry then set up a working group, a tripartite working group, and now that we have a proposal produced together on the basis of this working group, you can immediately see that this is not an easy matter. I welcome the point made by Minister Lindström that it was important to achieve some balance. There's a lot of parties here. Even those who work on a zero-job contract were not sure what kind of contract they actually wanted. This was evident at the time in these hearings. In other words, it cannot be said from the outset that if the Minister had brought such a proposal it would have met the needs of all the parties involved. I think it is important that, quite clearly, here as a whole, there is room for the committee to take up this motion with a rather strong parliamentary backrest. If the wise men's stone is found in the committee how the shortcomings already mentioned can be remedied, then I cannot see that Parliament would like to oppose a report which will improve this proposal even further, because I understand that the minister is not yet satisfied with the best possible, clarifying outcome of this state of affairs. Then there are clearly a list of these objectives agreed by the government in the mid-term debate. This, too, is an instruction to the committee, as it were, that if the committee now opens these matters carefully, then both the opposition and the government in this Chamber can stand behind this agreement. There are quite a lot of requests for this now being submitted to the committee and the committee's responsibility. I'm happy about that. And I have the understanding that the Minister himself wants to see that this issue, which has never had legislation before, is now in order. I think it is important to achieve this balance here. I myself have been an employer, an employee and an unemployed person and everything in between, so I am also trying to maintain the balance here, because it is not always so easy for the employer to acquire employees for very short periods of time. And then, on the other hand, there are these workers who want nothing but short-term employment. We have work to do in committee to deal with all these issues. In my final comment, I would like to say that I hope for constructive cooperation, that during this parliamentary term, which I myself was allowed to sit on, there will be one great result in common.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u43	Mr President! It is certainly clear that each of us sitting in the hall hopes that all the work in Finland will be done. From this point of view, it was very simple and clear that the requirement for a citizens' initiative to ban contracts of less than 18 hours if the wish does not originate from an employee is absolutely impossible. I said it very openly at the demonstration of the citizens' initiative and I say it equally openly now: all the work deserves to be done. Nevertheless, it is quite clear that the practice so far of zero-hour contracts, which have thus far exceeded 80,000 Finns, has been very unfair when, in some cases, the zero-hour contract has not provided any work and, at the same time, it has deprived people of the right to social security when a person has had a valid contract of employment, which has been calculated as an inhibitor of social security. This bill brings many improvements. The main point I consider is that every employee is entitled to leave the employment relationship if there are not enough hours worked. The schedule also comes earlier, and the salary of the notice period is subject to payment. These are very good reforms, and it goes without saying that this will not be complete, because the gap between the various social partners and in a very changing world of work poses its own challenges. However, I hope that in committee we will have a little definition of this variable need for labour and its definition, because it will perhaps leave the biggest gap.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u44	Madam President! What scares me now, of course, in these zero agreements is that they increase poverty, poverty in such a way that they can contribute to creating incentives for themselves, and also that when you work short-term, often you have to wait two or even three weeks for your salary, and when you pay it, unemployment security is easily transferred. So I hope that this is a point that will really be addressed when it is taken forward. The second is, then, this unemployment benefit and the resignation from this zero-job contract. 12 weeks sounds like a short period of time, but if we change it, say three months or say a quarter, it sounds as long as it is. This would also be a point that I think it would be good for the committee to see whether this is excessively long, whether it will lead to excessive toughness if a person has 12 weeks, a quarter of a year, is forced to see whether he is getting enough work or not getting enough work. That there are still things that need to be improved quite a bit. Then, of course, there is the fact that the employer does not seem to have much to do with the zero agreements. I understand that the employer gives work when there is work, but no one can dictate to whom the job is given whether it is given evenly to the zeroes there. As such a personal matter, I feel bad to say that a person has a zero-hour contract. Just as before Metal became the Parake, where there were zero-groupers, so I do not think that there should be such a thing in working life. But at least everyone's worth the one. That someone else should be able to get there. And then this, which really should be made to go smoothly, that if there is to be a zero number of hours, then immediately there must be compensation from somewhere else, because a person must, however, take care of living expenses, food expenses, clothing expenses and cetera.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u45	Mr President! I felt bad when Mr Tolppanen suggested that a person could afford to be unemployed but that a person could not afford to go to work. When you go to work, you risk poverty. That is what you said at the beginning of your speech. I know this is how people experience it, but I wish we had the will and the ability to remedy it. That is a completely perverse and demoral situation if you feel that you can afford to be unemployed but cannot afford to go to work. The so-called up-to-date Incomes Register, which will be implemented in this country in the course of next year, will facilitate the correction of this situation. All in all, I do not deny the existence of so-called red tape traps and so-called incentive traps, but we should not declare here that we can afford to be unemployed but cannot afford to go to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u46	Mr President! In that paragraph relating to unemployment security legislation, which specifically refers to this 12-calendar week period and to the fact that, if it has not been received for 18 hours in any week of the reference period, only then would the right under the Unemployment Protection Act to leave work without sanctions, then it would be an extraordinarily long period of time. And if there is a miscalculation of the situation of this unemployed person and a repeated procedure occurs, which may be well-founded in human terms, but the Unemployment Protection Act does not recognise it, this person will lose — it is not ‘may lose’,but loses —unemployment security if the procedure is considered to be repeated. It will then be achieved that, if we talk about an incentive policy for employment and if, according to the current articles, unemployment benefit on these grounds can be denied indefinitely and the arguments are similar to those of the active model, then what good is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u47	Mr President! I'm sure I haven't said that a person can't afford to go to work, but he can afford to be unemployed. At this point, I must say that there is either a lack of understanding or a flaw in my output,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u50	Mr President! I will reply to Mr Tolppas that there must have been something wrong with the understanding or the head here. But Mr Tolppanen has now drawn attention to the really burning problem, and these are the so-called red tape traps. In other words, the situation is that, or at least the person is experiencing uncertainty in the face of the situation that when you go into temporary, perhaps part-time work, certain unemployment benefits will be cut off and before you receive a certificate of remuneration and before you may be able, for example, to get an adjusted daily allowance, this state of uncertainty and incomelessness will arise which should not arise. I believe that this is a common challenge for us and, in fact, I believe that some of the criticisms of this so-called active model, which we will probably talk about later, are due to these bureaucracy traps. I hope that this up-to-date income register and cooperation between those paying unemployment allowance and others will reduce these problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u51	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u52	Mr President! I am not going to start by saying that in this Chamber a representative named by name has said it or this, but I am telling you that when I listened to your debut, I thought of two persons who assessed how to put out the fire: when the other said that the fire was actually extinguished but the water was not used. This is the impression I got. But now for this speech itself. Indeed, a number of speeches have criticised and found that this change in the law is undermining the position of the worker. I do not see this in black and white, but rather in the opposite. According to statistics, more than 80,000 people are doing these temporary jobs in any case, and I believe that denying such work would be out of their freedom, for they themselves have chosen such a way of working. In particular, students carry out these irregular work in areas where the needs of the workforce vary. Students want to adapt their studies and work to their own rhythm, and at the same time they get excellent experience and training in working life. Mr President! In my opinion, when the law comes into force, it would improve the status of an employee, because the worker would then be entitled to pay sickness benefit if the shift in the period of invalidity was recorded on the schedule, otherwise it has been agreed or, in the circumstances, it is clear that the worker would have been able to work. In addition, variable working time should not be agreed on the initiative of the employer if the employer has a fixed labour demand. Minister Lindström said in his own speech and proved that the minimum working time limit must not be lower than the actual need for labour. These are, in my opinion, very clear rules of the game, which must be taken into account and kept in mind. The law also contains other restrictions on the employer's speculation, which make the current practice fair rules of play both for the employee and for the employer. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that Minister Lindström has done an excellent job. This bill is another example of it, and I strongly support this bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u53	Mr President! This proposal is another part of the series of reforms in which the current government has wanted to reform the Finnish labour market to become more suitable for an increasingly rapidly changing world. As a whole, this government proposal, which sets rules for so-called zero-hour contracts, is a good and balanced compromise. It will clarify the position of workers and employers, but on the other hand it will continue to make it possible, if agreed, to work flexibly and flexibly. It will also hopefully bring another important tool to reduce the serious problem of matching unemployment and job vacancies in the Finnish labour market. For example, in December, according to the Employment Survey of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, there were 295,500 unemployed job seekers, while our new job vacancies increased by over 3,000, with more than 40,000 jobs already. In future, when employees need to know their future work schedules in good time, it will be easier to fill their daily schedule with more employer offers. In the world of the platform economy, this will facilitate the reconciliation of work. On the other hand, Mr President, we all know that this reform alone is not enough to overcome the undeniable structural problems on our labour market. In order to reduce high structural unemployment, we need, in particular, progress in promoting local reconciliation in Germany and Sweden. In this regard, my esteemed colleague, Mr Ihalainen, thought last week that perhaps the Ay movement could move from defence to the creation of a road map for local cooperation and agreement. It would therefore be interesting to hear how this constructive proposal has been received more generally in the opposition or by the social partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u54	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Jari Lindström and, at the same time, the Government of Juha Sipilä for bringing this issue of zero-hour contracts into legal form. Indeed, we are now living in moments when this long-speaking problem is gradually becoming a matter of very sensible legislation. This is an historic moment, and this is a special thanks to Minister Lindström, who, apparently, has invested in this. In his presentation of this matter he revealed that he knows this very well, but also to Minister Lindström, thank you very much for saying that, since this is the first model in this country, it cannot be 100 % ready at the first time. It is quite certain that we too will have to turn this law around, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities when it comes to dealing with this and when it comes to drawing up this report, we will probably have to make a few remarks, but I dare to believe that when the Minister is here, he will probably be very open to different better proposals than those contained in this government proposal. In other words, this is an excellent basis from which to start, and I would have expected a somewhat more constructive approach from the opposition to what the opposition parties themselves had been unable to do over the years and years. If you criticize something, it is always worth noting that if you have not been able to do it yourself, then you should not go to the crevice who makes the pile. In this case, thank you very much, Mr Lindström. The fact that there have been zero-hour contracts in this country is a fact, but we are now getting to the legislation on this issue and on a sensible procedure whereby the various interests of people, both the employer and the employee, are brought into the legislation and are on the right track. It is quite certain in today's work that it has changed at a ferocious pace over the last ten years and there is a great need for a variety of short-term contracts. Let us say now that the student is the most typical in the shop, even though he does evening shifts, and there is a situation like this at Christmas, when there is a rush hour and there is a lot of work where there is a need for such a variable working time: we have more labour and, above all, we have the possibility of employers treating their employees fairly and fairly in this way and making fair agreements. It also creates credibility for the continuation of the employment of these people, because at the same time as a person goes to work, let it be, for example, a 25-hour weekly contract, and if such a worker turns out to be a firm and competent person in his work, then I am almost certain that the employer in question is considering that this would be an excellent employee, even if it were a permanent worker in the house. I am sure that today's employers will look very positively at an employee who takes up his work vigorously and does his work responsibly, and I am not yet able to believe that there is such a perversion in employers that people will deliberately be held by zero-hour contracts. In other parts of the world, we have tried these zero-hour agreements and related legislation that we are, in a way, coming in this late stage. However, once these variable agreements are born on the basis of the law, it is very good that a clear balance is struck in this agreement, just as the Minister said. The need for this work actually exists, and now that this new procedure comes with the new law, these varying agreements will therefore be brought under the common roof, and that is an extremely fine thing. And when this law is in force after an excellent committee reading and after proper consideration of the great Chamber of Parliament, it does not mean that this matter is ready at the moment, but that it will then begin to develop, which the next Parliament will then, if it considers it to be a matter, will do even better. The groundbreaking work has been done here, and for that I am very grateful to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u55	Mr President! Despite criticism, however, this proposal has been welcomed from all sides and from the middle and in the middle of the Chamber. On the opposition side there was also praise for this presentation, and the Minister of Labour has been commended. Indeed, the active Minister of Labour took a catch from the citizens' initiative. There is also a model here — when the institution of citizens' initiatives is still new — of how to respond to citizens' initiatives so that good things can move forward, because there is not always an understanding, knowledge and knowledge of how to draft an initiative in a legal text. Although, as everyone here has recognised — the opposition, the government and the minister themselves — this law is certainly not perfect, but it is an important head start and the opening of a new path, yet on that basis the bill has been successful if, through its adoption and entry into force, the work is increased. That is already sufficient grounds for the existence of a law. Of course, the primary reason is to establish and clarify the rules of the game. It is true that it is impossible for this employer and worker not to be equal, but it is not a match between David and Goliath either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u56	Mr President! I have tried to listen correctly to the idea and to make it clear that if a person has had a contract of between 0 and 40 weekly hours and working time has been very varied, it was not established, for example, between 20 and 30 hours, so how will this person improve his position through this new government proposal? And you can apply for indications that you are not getting better for the reason why the Employment Protection Act has left the reference period of this 12 calendar weeks and the very strict conditions for its application. And I do not think that this government proposal will change very much in committee or in the Chamber when these changes have not been approved by the Assembly and the EK and then we go. But when it comes to the situation of underemployed people, there would be one very easy way of dismantling red tape, which could be appropriate for both the employer and the employee side and also for the administration, and that is to go into advance practice when working time varies. An employee's request could be made in advance of the assumed unemployment benefit, such as 80%, and the rest would be matched when the statement is completed and the supporting documents included. And then he, who asks for this advance, would be given a power of attorney in order to initiate a possible recovery in case of overpayment by mistake. The person who really needs his money right away would get most without any red tape, the payment would come in advance, then reconciliation over time, and there would be no late payment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u57	Mr President! Here, in a speech, there was a glimpse of the ban on temporary work. That, of course, is not the case here either, and certainly no one has even tried to say so. Now that this is going to committee, Minister, I am interested to know how pay is determined in zero labour contracts. Does the TES include, does it include the age allowances, whether there are any personal and other allowances that other people working in the same way or in the same type of work have laid down in a general or normal collective agreement? I think this is quite essential. As far as this competition law is concerned, do you believe, Minister, that a zero-job contract actually employs people who work in such a way that they could be dangerous or in some way put another employer in a difficult position if they were to work for someone else? I don't think so. I believe that here, just how to say it now, may bring up the small-mindedness of a person: you don’t go to work for a friend — even if I don’t have a job — because you have a contract of employment here. You know, I think it's a good idea to do these little things to make it feel better. The worst thing about the whole zero-labour contract is that this country even accepts a zero-labour contract of this kind. There must be other ways. In the past, we've been working short hours, we've been working half an hour, we've been working half an hour. They have been called freelance jobs, and people have had a freelance work card, and it has worked just fine. There have been few problems, such as the sick person’s salary, but it should only have been filed, and it would still work very well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u58	Mr President! I find it quite interesting to listen to this debate, how differently we listen to these speeches. For example, Mr Hongisto here said that it had been said in this Chamber that the situation of the zero-hour contractees was deteriorating. Well, I do not know whether I have listened so carefully to all the speeches, but I have not heard anyone say that it is getting weaker, but it has been said that the legal protection of workers under the zero-hour contract is still too weak. I understand that has been said, but it may be that I did not listen well enough myself. But, Mr President, that legal certainty remains weak because, if, for example, the worker and the employer disagree on this real need for labour for a six-month follow-up period, the worker has the right to demand a negotiation and, if necessary, the employer must state in writing why he has come to this conclusion, but I did not find out what will then be done when I read this bill, if there is still a difference of opinion as to which point of view wins it and where the legal security of the worker is then. One of the main problems with these zero-hour contracts has been the fact that if an employee is critical of the employer, we know very well that hours can end just that. Employees do not always go out to defend these rights and demand things for themselves, because employers and employees do not have an equal bargaining relationship when there are zero-hour contracts. I believe that the majority of employers will certainly handle this matter well after this law comes into force, but I do think that we will continue to have different employers, and then I will continue to have concerns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u59	Mr President! My esteemed representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen must have misinterpreted my message when I started the illustration that the fire has been extinguished, but there is too little water in it. Many speakers said that the right steps have been taken, but perhaps not sufficiently long, triangular. If I interpreted correctly, the direction is the right one, but you may not think that the speed and the way forward are sufficient. But I am glad, my friends, that we have at least found the right path, that we have found the right direction, and that is where we go. I would also like to say that Minister Lindström has done an excellent job in directing us to this right path, and now it is up to us all to march along this path as quickly as possible and for as long as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u60	And again, Minister, from the speaking room, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the debate. In my opinion, this was what more should be here. Even though criticism came, yet it was also constructive and searching for solutions. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, on this legal security: I have to say that I do not know whether there are some case-law on this now, that I could not begin to stand here and tell you about it. I could imagine that if we do not reach an agreement, then this will go to a court of law, which will eventually determine how it will go. But, of course, this needs to be clarified before I begin to give any more detailed answers here. I also have this information which has been baked in, and then you will probably receive more detailed answers in this committee hearing. If you don't, I'll figure it out. This is a proper question in itself. This is indeed the first time that the rules of the game have been defined at the level of the law. And as I said there, I cannot believe that, when the law on working time was first adopted, for the first time a contract of employment law has been adopted, they have also been the same as they are at present. Laws always come in time and need, and then they are changed as they are seen to have some problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u64	Mr President! I would like to say that I personally am very pleased that, in the last few months, I have heard about red tape traps in the middle and on the right side of the Chamber. Four years ago, when I was talking about it here, there was no answer. We turned our heads and went for coffee and made up some other things. I think there has already been a terrible advance in this area since then. At the same time, however, it must be borne in mind that a significant part of the problem of red tape traps is based on the desire to control and sanction and, in order to be able to control and sanction, there must be a lot of red tape. As long as that ideology and the assumption behind it is that those people who depend on basic security, the poor — the same kind of control of other transfers — are somehow not targeted — always in need of special control, so long we will not be able to break red tape traps with any kind of income registers or other solutions. In order to get it moving, we need to start with a big change of attitude, a realization that the poor in this society are treated in the same way as others and are subject to the same rules on transfers of income as everyone else. That's the key, and then when we get to it, when that insight goes through, then we can go out and take out the red tape traps.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u65	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u66	Mr President! The aim of this government proposal before us is to promote access to apprenticeships for students in vocational education and training. In this proposal, it is proposed to amend the Employment Contracts Act and the Act on the municipal office holder so that the employer can in future conclude an apprenticeship agreement with a student in vocational education and training, without prejudice to the obligation to provide the employer with additional work and the obligation to take back. The State Civil Service Act would be amended to enable the employer to conclude an apprenticeship agreement with a student in vocational education and training, without prejudice to the obligation to take back the obligation laid down in the State Civil Service Act. This proposal is based on Parliament's statement in response to the Government's proposal for a law on vocational education and training and some related laws. In this statement, Parliament required the Government to submit to Parliament without delay a legislative proposal which implements amendments to the Employment Contracts Act and to the legislation on employment relations which enable apprenticeships to work on an equal footing in all sectors of activity without prejudice to the employer's obligation to provide additional work. With this proposal, the Government will therefore carry out the mandate given by Parliament in its statement. The possibility for the employer to derogate from his obligation to provide additional work and take back would be limited to the duration of the apprenticeship. At the end of the agreed period, the employer should again comply with the obligations to provide work under the employment relationship legislation in relation to his or her own staff. By facilitating access to apprenticeships, the Government aims to promote access to employment for students in vocational education and training and their ability to acquire the skills required in the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u67	Mr President! The draft law proposes to amend the employment contract law, the law on the municipal office holder and the law on civil servants so that the employer can in future conclude an apprenticeship contract with a student to the employer under the law on vocational education and training without prejudice to the obligation to provide additional work and the obligation to take back. After amendments to the law, the employer could in future conclude an apprenticeship contract with the student under the Vocational Education Act, without prejudice to the obligation to offer a job laid down in the State Civil Service Act. The aim of the proposal is to extend apprenticeship training to all sectors. The last thing that was reported today was the need for more working hands in the construction sector, especially on the electricity and Ivi side. In my opinion, apprenticeships are also suitable in these areas, so we must remove all legal barriers so that training and traineeships are available as widely as possible. The proposal relates to the reform of vocational training and is therefore only to be supported. Let me give you a practical example. There is a metal company in Alajärvi, where dozens of jobs are constantly open. They can't get a trained workforce there. The same locality has secondary education, which would be ready to organise, specifically to tailor training to the needs of this metal company, but current legislation prevents and prohibits the organisation of this training. The situation now is that these pupils in Alajärvi should move to Seinäjoki, where it is 80 kilometres away, go to their school there and then come back to work practice there in Alajärvi, and that seems incomprehensible. This is why it is very good that this law should be amended so that education is also possible in other localities and, above all, to enable this learning at work. The student then learns what he or she needs in his or her work, and the employer receives the student or employee he or she wants. A bill that is particularly worthy of support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u68	Mr President! Indeed, this development of apprenticeship training is an excellent thing. In my own municipality of residence, I have made an observation in which a metal workshop has successfully been able to create a skilled workforce for itself in the use of apprenticeship training. And when this bill amends and makes the employment contract law more flexible, it creates a genuine possibility that there will be a genuine link between young people who want to work and employers in that work situation. And then, when apprenticeships are carried out vividly in the workplace, learning at the same time at work is certainly more effective: taking the example that boys children always have this technique, mopeds and other people are very interested, but reading is not very popular, but when it is knowledgeably combined with interesting activities and at the same time few lessons can be fed, this will create an opportunity for these people to have genuinely good jobs and a good workforce for the employer. In rural areas, the shortage of labour is a real problem, and if the young people, who are still there, even if this apprenticeship procedure allows them to remain in that municipality and to be trained for various tasks and to remain in their region of origin, it is extremely valuable because today, for example, on the forestry side, there is an extremely high demand for labour, when there is nothing to get skilled workers and it is very difficult to get new souls in the countryside. The old wisdom continues to be true that when multi-functional or forest machine drivers are usually applied for to work sites, they do not leave Helsinki Airport on the morning plane towards the north, they certainly do not leave, but they are already there as if they are ready. And this apprenticeship procedure, which is being further developed here, is extremely good in this task. I wish it every success. I would also like to see these labour-related legislation developed in the future and the cooperation between employers and workers' organisations intensified, that when this issue of apprenticeship training in general has been neglected, more impetus should be given to this,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u69	Mr President! Following the public debate on government policy during Christmas and, above all, in January, mainly on this active model, a quite mistaken impression emerged that the present government had done nothing productive and positive to promote employment, but, on the contrary, the government simply squats and humiliates the unemployed. Of course, this image is completely wrong. If we look at the whole picture of the current economic situation, we have more than 50,000 jobs created, the unemployed have been able to work for a better living, and this active model is also a good model, which aims to encourage the unemployed also to take on a job, and I do not think there is any reason, at least in April, to change the regulations. It is a different matter that there is a need to allocate more resources to employment services and possibly to labour market measures. Listening now to the debate on this proposal and also to that previous issue, it is clear that the government is doing and has been doing this main line of action all the time — the work line, which is reflected in the promotion of employment and entrepreneurship — and a number of small reforms to promote employment opportunities. This presentation is part of it. The last one was part of it. In addition, there are other specific measures on this so-called 10th list which I think are still coming to Parliament, some of which will continue to improve the employment situation and help the situation of the unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u70	Mr President! Now I would like to clarify this apprenticeship from the Minister here, when I understood it in such a way that the contract of employment may be as long as that apprenticeship period is, but it does not necessarily go on from there, but it can take it. Or is this the case that, once an apprenticeship has been completed, the employer who has an apprenticeship has an obligation to hire this person to work at the place where the apprenticeship has been awarded and concluded? Then the second question: Is it also now intended to change the apprenticeship in the form of learning at work? After all, traditional apprenticeships include both in-work learning and a theoretical period. Is there going to be such a structural change or is it not? As such, an apprenticeship is an awful good way to learn a profession, and so it should be, or I think, a very good thing that if an employer needs a certain type of person, he will train an apprenticeship and then there will be a contract of employment and work will continue there. Or is it now that an apprenticeship is made and then a person has a profession and then goes to the free labour market for work?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u71	Minister Lindström. Maybe a few minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u72	Mr. Speaker! Indeed, further clarifications and clarifications are given in this government proposal: Thus, the employer should take vocational education and training students into apprenticeship training without the employer first having to offer that job to a part-time worker who wants and is suitable for additional work or, for economic or production reasons, to an employee who is subject to a readmission obligation. Secondly, it is proposed that, in the case of State officials, the employer may take the student into apprenticeship training without having to offer work to an official who has been laid off for a reason other than his/her own. Then how, according to the proposal, would this employer be able to act in practice in such a way that the employer could conclude an apprenticeship agreement with the student, without prejudice to the obligation to provide additional work or to take back. However, the employer may not deviate from other legal obligations to provide work, such as the obligation to provide work or training for workers who are at risk of dismissal or laid off. The employer is not entitled to derogate from the obligation to provide additional work or take back after the end of this apprenticeship. At the end of a fixed-term apprenticeship, the employer should again comply with the above-mentioned obligations to provide work. Indeed, the basis for this is the statement by Parliament that this proposal has been made. So it has not gone over the top, but it has been done exactly what Parliament has required since this problem has arisen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u73	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Employment Contracts Act, the Municipal Act and the State Civil Service Act. I think the motion is very good. The proposal relates to the reform of vocational education and training. Parliament required the Government to submit a legislative proposal to Parliament without delay, which will implement amendments to the Employment Contracts Act and to the law on employment relations which will enable apprenticeships to work on an equal footing in all sectors of activity, without prejudice to the obligation to provide additional work. The aim of the proposal is to increase the access of vocationally trained students to apprenticeships and thus to promote access to employment for vocational education and training students and to acquire the skills required in the labour market. The proposal is expected to relate in particular to the trade sector, but also to the tourism and restaurant sector and possibly to administrative and support services and the education sector. Deviation from the obligation to provide additional work is expected to weaken the position of part-time workers who would like additional hours. As part-time workers are mostly women, it is estimated that changes may widen to some extent the gender gap in the labour market. From the point of view of companies, the proposal increases their scope for taking apprentices. The impact on employment is estimated to be positive, although the proportion of underemployed persons should increase accordingly. However, the overall impact of the proposal is estimated to be rather limited. I hope that this proposal will also lead to more seasonal workers in Lapland in the future, and it will be too late for this winter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u74	Mr President! I have to say that here is an answer, so this is a matter of vocational training reform. But I am sure it will be interesting in committee if it really is that, if there are people who have been made redundant for production and economic reasons, an apprenticeship can still be awarded to such a job. There may be legal problems, but it will certainly be seen there. As for the fact that this lack of seasonal workers in Lapland has been mentioned: that is indeed true — for some reason I feel it because of the love of the locks, when I am born in Mr. Kemi and raised in Rovaniemi, I am following the situation — but there is a bit of a situation there when there is an employer who pays a decent salary and working conditions are proper and printed for a long day, yes they have employees, but if you pay 3 euros an hour, then who knows what can't find employees? In fact, this issue is being clarified a little further at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u75	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u76	Mr President! The show itself is a good one. In fact, I drew attention to that opinion of the Council for the Evaluation of Legislation on the previous version of this law, which, in my opinion, was very constructive, and it called for sharpness, particularly in terms of the financial impact of the government's proposal. It has to be acknowledged that most of these proposals for improvement by the Evaluation Council have been taken into account, but there are a number of points dealing with additional costs for businesses in the sector and there are two additional national criteria which entail costs. On the other hand, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is specifically the Ministry of Experiment, which has this one-in-one and one-out principle, i.e. if costs come, then they should be taken away from somewhere. How does the Minister respond to this, and has this really been taken into account now, at least in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u77	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u78	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes, inter alia, obligations for certain providers of essential services for the functioning of society and for certain providers of digital services relating to information security risk management and reporting of disturbances. I think this is a very timely and good proposal, and one might think why this has not been done before. As a result of digitalisation, more and more services become dependent on the productive operation of communications networks and information systems. Increasing the level of information security is important for the overall security of society. However, the lack of confidence in digital approaches can be held back. Of course, you can immediately say that if the Pentagon's systems can be hacked and hacked, why not us too. However, everything we can do for security must be done. Information security disruptions can have significant economic consequences for society as well as individual citizens and businesses. Disorders which allow third parties to access their confidential information are particularly relevant to individual citizens and businesses. Many are already very cautious about social media, and that is great wisdom. What you put in there stays in there, too. The Government's proposal aims to increase citizens' and businesses' confidence in digital practices and to improve the information security of society's operations and of services that are essential to citizens. The Government's proposal proposes obligations in relation to risk management and reporting of incidents related to information security, such as the obligation to notify the supervisory authority and the public of a significant security incident. This should be taken for granted already, but it is not. It's a good thing if you do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u79	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-07-ps-2.u80	Mr President! The proposal is based on the regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council on personal protective equipment and cableway installations, which replace previous directives. The purpose of existing national legislation is to repeal the unnecessary provisions covered by these EU regulations. Further provision would be made for the language of instructions, information and labelling — must be Finnish and Swedish — market surveillance authorities, i.e. the labour inspectorate and Tukes, as well as sanctions. Unnecessary references to PPE would be removed from the conformity law for certain technical devices and references to the EU PPE and cableway installations regulations would be added. Essentially, the provisions of the Equipment Act on languages, controls and penalties should apply to personal protective equipment and cableway installations intended for use at work. A separate law on PPE intended for consumer use would refer to the PPE Regulation as regards the requirements for personal protective equipment and provide for language requirements, regulatory enforcement and sanctions. Market surveillance of PPE intended for consumer use would be governed by the law on market surveillance of certain products. As such, the requirements of the EU Regulation on PPE are the same, regardless of whether they are PPE intended for use at work or intended for consumer use. The proposal proposes to amend the Criminal Code. The aim is to clarify and harmonise criminal law-level regulation of products. The activities of the manufacturer or other supplier could become a criminal offence in the form of a health offence, whether it is a technical device intended for use at work or a protective device or machine intended for private consumption. In the case of products currently covered by the Law on Equipment, the activities of the manufacturer or other donor may have become a criminal offence against safety at work. The draft is of a large legislative technical nature and does not change the technical or safety requirements for PPE or cableway installations or the conformity assessment procedures directly provided for in the Regulations. The proposal therefore has no significant financial or other impact, including no significant impact on the functioning of the authorities. The biggest change compared to the current situation is linked to the harmonisation and clarification of penal regulation for products used at work and intended for consumer use. The presentation has been prepared as official work at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in cooperation with the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. It's been a consultation. The proposal has been discussed and adopted by the tripartite Advisory Board on Safety and Health at Work.
