ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u2	The first question is asked by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and there by Mrs Taavitsainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u3	Mr President! The government has cut low incomes, deepening poverty and increasing people’s payment difficulties. More than half a million Finns have been subject to enforcement. Low-income pensioners, unemployed persons and disabled people have been put at the mercy of unscrupulous collection agencies because of high social welfare and health care charges. Families with children do not receive an electricity contract, home insurance or any other necessary thing due to the payment default marking. Every year, nearly 400,000 enforcement cases come to the state because of social welfare and health care customer fees. This is a shocking situation. Minister of Justice, what are you going to do so that people do not slip into enforcement just because of the necessary medical costs?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u4	Mr President! In Finland, the number of enforcement customers and the number of debt problems have certainly increased strongly, not only in relation to payments for certain public service items, but in terms of consumer credit and many very everyday economic management issues, which means that the problem is much wider. Now, of course, we need to have a discussion with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health on how service payment practices are progressing there. Of course, as regards customer fees, normal recovery practices must be followed, and municipalities are responsible for ensuring that they are properly operated. We are constantly monitoring in the Ministry of Justice that practices are appropriate in these matters of recovery. In other words, every person who has a recovery situation in enforcement must be looked at humanely and in accordance with the law. I think,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u5	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u6	Mr President! A mass exit problem has been created in Finland alongside mass unemployment. Many have lost their health and ability to work because of financial difficulties. They have been imprisoned forever in debt and live on the outer edges of our society. You can say it's a national emergency. Hundreds of thousands of pensioners, unemployed people, families with children and young children and even underage children are at the mercy of brutal collection companies that sell the debts of these small people to each other, collect debts many times, documents on debts are not found, and debts are not expired within the prescribed time. For example, a collection company operating in Finland has been fined $80 million in the United States for illegal recovery. This is exactly what the company is doing in Finland. Minister of Justice, are you going to carry out a special inspection of the activities of recovery companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u7	Mr President! Recovery activities in Finland are subject to special regulation and the practices pursued in the field are reviewed throughout the time, partly by the Ministry of Justice, partly by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. Now that the problem is growing all the time with regard to enforcement, the main focus in all of these must now be on how to prevent people from falling into debt spirals and over-indebtedness. It should not be said, in principle, that debt is bad because people need money for housing or consumer credit or others, but if the loss of financial control is a daily matter for more and more people, then we will have problems right there with fundamental financial management skills. Even in schools, these issues should perhaps be strengthened, and in this context we should also look at how to regulate over-indebtedness. But the problem at present is much deeper than that of insolvency regulation alone,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u8	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u9	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, the then government adopted new legislation to control this borrowing of quick-lipped companies and to set this 50 % interest rate cap and the amount of the loan would then have to be at least EUR 2000 so that its interest rate cap could be exceeded. Now these fast-pacing companies have circumvented this law by granting a EUR 2000 loan and continuing to take on interest rates of up to thousands of percent. What will the government do about this circumvention? This problem has not gone away. Another thing is that very many young people do not control spending. How logical is it that young people who have no income and who have not graduated into a profession or otherwise are able to support themselves are able to buy part-time if some kind of purchase at very high interest rates is not controlled or regulated in any way? Could something other than enlightenment guide this overindebtedness, especially among young people?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u10	Mr President! This is where the questioner hits the heart of the matter. In other words, there must be preventive measures in terms of education, knowledge. Ultimately, each citizen is primarily responsible for the issues of self-management of the economy, and this is an important signal for young people in particular, but the government, the municipalities, the provinces have an important role to play in this. In other words, unhealthy practices must be eradicated from the consumer credit market, for example, so that people do not get into problems in these matters. I have reinstated the question of the quick-wipe issue at the Ministry of Justice. I believe that there is a need for a re-evaluation of this issue and that it will be subject to guidelines during the spring. Similarly, other issues relating to the prevention of over-indebtedness and after-care: we are looking at bankruptcy proceedings at the moment, and I have already brought the issue of incentive traps for enforcement back to last year, which has been widely supported in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u11	Mr President! For many debtors, employment is difficult in the sense that the protection component is lagging behind, for example, in the development of income or labour market support. A person who receives a small salary may be in a situation where the vouti takes up to 90 per cent of the small salary together with taxation, that a very small part of the salary remains after the absence of a voudi. It has been said for a long time that it would be worth raising the protective part so that it would always be worthwhile for the over-indebted to go to work and commit to paying the debt. Has the government considered that the protective part could be increased in such a way that if a person commits to debt arrangements for a long debt or loan and genuinely pays it off, he or she could step up his or her salary more in the form of a protective portion of this kind?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u12	That's an excellent question. At the moment, Finland has two mega-level problems: raising the employment rate, where more action needs to be taken on all fronts, while at the same time increasing the problem of household indebtedness. This equation is kind of tricky. When a person is in a state of over - debt, for example, the incentives to take up temporary work may be very weak. That is why I wanted to take forward the act of dismantling the incentive traps. We had an in-depth discussion at the Ministry of Justice as to whether this increase in the share of protection or some other mechanism would be the best medicine for the very people with the highest incentive trap. Not for those who may receive a high salary or who are already in regular, high-paid positions. This reflection led to the fact that it was more worthwhile for us to make this proposal, which is being discussed in Parliament, through the increase in the percentage of protection, through the increase in the number of months of postponement, because of the protection rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u13	Let's stay in one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u14	Madam President! Mr Häkkänen, you rightly said that prevention and the worsening of the cycle of over-indebtedness are a very important issue. It is central to financial and debt counselling, which is to be transferred from the beginning of 19 to legal aid offices. The problem is that it is done with some 15% less than what has been spent on this matter by the municipalities. Is there any point in stressing at the same time the importance of debt and financial counselling in solving the problem of over-indebtedness that is being cut at the same time? And as far as the activities of municipalities are concerned, there is much to see that municipalities sell the enforcement of social and health security charges to collection agencies, frankly, for a fraction of it — these are secret agreements, but this is the case — and then allow these private recovery agencies to be enriched by the plight and over-indebtedness of people. Is this morally right for the municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u15	Mr President! In the coming years, more and more investment must be made in financial and debt counselling. Preventive counseling to a person in a situation where debt spirals and human distress can still be prevented must be at that point in time. Now there has been a situation in financial and debt counselling that the resources have not been sufficient in recent years, and now that this transfer is taking place, the resources will remain at a reasonable level, and I will try to mobilise more resources for this. Despite all the other economic challenges that have been addressed in this Chamber, I am trying to get more resources for this, above all so that we can shift the focus to the preventive side rather than to the bailout and district courts. We'll be a little late by then.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u16	Madam President! The financial reports said that about a third of the wages of the enforcement men come from commissions. It is determined by how much can be recovered from the debtors. We need to get our debt settled, that's clear. But the recovery of debts must not give rise to unreasonable situations. Debtors and indebted entrepreneurs sometimes get caught up in long withdrawals, which are very difficult to get away from. The commission of enforcement men is paid by the Finnish State. It would be in Finland’s best interest for over-indebted or bankrupt entrepreneurs to get through their debts as quickly as possible and be able to get back to work soon. I would like to ask the minister in question, Minister Häkkkäs: Do you think that the commission of enforcement men is a reasonable arrangement? Is it possible for the State to address the criteria for hiring enforcement men?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u17	Mr President! When commenting on pay issues, you should always be reasonably cautious, but I can say in general terms that, as in many other countries, there have been very many pay systems in public administration over the decades where some form of sport or commission or other has been paid. Even judges have had such a system. So, in my opinion, such features are no longer, in principle, part of modern public administration. We must ensure that enforcement functions effectively but fairly and legally in all cases. At the same time, when it is necessary to ensure that every citizen pays his debt as such and that the recovery functions and creditors receive their share, he must also ensure that every person is treated legally, fairly and humanely. I believe that this system of remuneration will also be more modern in the coming times.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u18	Mr President! Man always experiences enforcement as a failure, also marked by shame and powerlessness in handling his own affairs. These people, who are heavily indebted, must also be treated humanely, as you said. It requires face-to-face contact. It requires that we discuss and try to resolve even difficult issues together. However, enforcement offices are now being reduced, e.g. in Satakunta, enforcement is being concentrated in Pori — sworn in the names of these electronic services. However, these people also need encounters rather than door closures. Why, Minister, is enforcement now concentrated in this way, and it is not possible to carry out expulsions electronically in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u19	Mr President! As far as enforcement is concerned, the authorities have carried out an expert assessment of the reform of the enforcement structures in the future so that, in a tight economic situation, a well-functioning enforcement in this country can continue to be secured and the use of digitalisation, new technology, so that the enforcement will continue to work at a good level. This is only the basic presentation from the Kingdom Voudin Agency, and now we are going to consider whether it is justified and what the situation and other things are going to look like in the field. But there will be no reform where, for some reason, the quality of enforcement operations would be weakened or where there would not be any benefits that would be sought. But the area of justice has to reform, introduce new technologies, and at the same time, despite economic pressure, strive to ensure that the service obligation, which in itself is for creditors, is:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u20	Let's try to hold that minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u21	Mr President! Indeed, every tenth Finn has been in enforcement during the year, it is a shocking figure. It is good that the minister had woken up to the fact that the unemployed person in the enforcement procedure was not in practice worth accepting low-paid work, and then the government suggested that after a one-year period of unemployment it would be possible to postpone it. But why wait that year? Mr Häkkänen, would it not be advisable to act in such a way that every unemployed person in the enforcement process who receives low-paid work should be entitled to such a postponement, so that when we have a joint job to combat the sustainability gap and increase the employment rate, everyone would be given a job and people would have the opportunity to take over their lives and a fresh start?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u22	Mr President! As the people in the Chamber are well aware, the problem of dismantling the incentive traps is very difficult, firstly because many of these projects cost a great deal if they are done on a lump sum basis, i.e. for everyone. That is why we need to narrow these down somewhat so that we can find the very cases and the people who have the most difficult situation. And I am quite sure — and I am sure there is no doubt about that in this Chamber — that it will be followed up and monitored to see whether changes need to be made, to extend it to the extent that, in a way, the challenge is even greater. I personally take the view that this situation is being monitored every week as to how it develops. But if this were done, for example, to target all those involved in enforcement, without any further restrictions, this would be extremely expensive and then we would have to talk about where other ministries' budgets could be transferred here. So it's a challenging situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u23	Madam President! People struggling with small pensions and social support, on the one hand, and high medical costs, on the other hand, are in distress. I have received alarmed communications that support for informal care has varied across the country from one country to another to another. However, informal care support is such social support, just like housing allowance or even child benefits, which are not enforced. I would now like to hear the government's position: are you now going to clarify this practice across the country? At the moment, informal care support from other family carers and others is being handed out, and this does create great uncertainty and financial distress for these people. It would, of course, be important for the aid for informal care to be limited entirely outside this expropriation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u24	Mr President! Now I have to say that I do not know what individual cases are at stake here, but during the spring we are now going to go through the extensive reforms of the way in which different practices may differ from what legislation is. I am not saying here what may have happened in the case of individual errors, but we are making a survey of it at the moment, especially for those on low incomes, for example, about the introduction of certain charges or the problems of labelling and others. We are making a thorough inventory of this at the moment. I dare not promise what changes will be made, because we must also ensure that if a person is in debt, then, in principle, we must also be able to pay the debts — that system is based on trust. Otherwise, other people with low incomes who manage their affairs properly might not be able to get a proper loan. But everything must be just and fair, and we will check how these procedures work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u25	Next question: Parliament of Finns, representative Meri. — We are trying to put a question to all the groups today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u26	Madam Speaker! Almost weekly, last night, we read in the paper the suspicion of sexual abuse of children. There are situations where even gross forms of acts have not been interpreted as rapes and the perpetrator has survived on probation. This debate has been going on for years. As a result, the Finns of Finland require, among other things, a revision of the first-time provisions of the Criminal Code and the level of punishment for serious sexual offences against children. Now we are in the year 2018, and it will soon have been three years since that Government Programme entry. Now, Minister Häkkänen, I ask you: when will these proposals start to come? I really hope that you do not answer that the reports are in progress, because now the government has had a very long time to prepare for this. When do we get any suggestions that the punishments for sexual crimes against children will rise and be eliminated, which we can read, among other things, in the case of very young children, that it will even require consent from a ten-year-old child to have sex? Please tell me your schedules.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u27	Mr President! There is certainly a fairly broad common understanding in this Chamber and the belief that sexual crimes against children are extremely reprehensible. There's no doubt about it. The basic idea of the examination that has been launched at the Ministry of Justice is also that it leads to certain blackmails. This is also my line as Minister. But like a very representative The sea as a lawyer knows, we need to get things straight before we get into the line. I am not going to change the criminal code on the basis of any case reported by the media headline or by the afternoon newspaper, but we are going to do so through a thorough, careful analysis and we are also assessing the significant other legislative reforms that have taken place in recent years, the effects of which have only been assessed recently. In-depth reflection is in the final stages of the ministry, and conclusions on this will be announced very soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u28	Then I ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u29	Mr President! Well, I got an answer for the fact that it's settled. It's been there for about three years. We have been elected, everyone, to this Parliament so that we were asked on the ground what you think about these matters, and quite a few people said that they feel that sexual crimes, especially against children, are such that penalties should be increased. I would like the ministers to have their own opinions, and I would like it not always to be said that there is an inquiry in progress. Now let's see if there's time for the end of the parliamentary term when it's just being moved and moved. There has also been a citizens' initiative. Similarly, this first-time problem of being reset every three years, and you are a first-time offender, is in the government programme, and there are no changes and no answers. Does this include changes to your forthcoming reform of the first time and also to the measurement of the penalty and to these so-called large-scale reductions?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u30	Mr President! We have been developing the system of criminal justice in Finland for decades in a certain direction, where I think there are certain things to be corrected too. Among other things, there is a problem with certain first-time issues and others, and there are certain issues of parole which, for example, do not exist in other parts of Europe. So I'm well aware of this system. And now that we have completed this evaluation of the civil service experts these days, we will then come to the conclusion of what kind of projects will be taken forward during this parliamentary term. Special emphasis has been placed on the examination of these sexual crimes against children, and I can say that there will be changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u32	Mr President! Mr Meri mentioned a case which I myself raised a few months ago in Parliamentary Question Time and which also relates to a bill that was prepared by Parliament's women's network and which would change, if it were adopted, the criminal code in such a way as to make rape a criterion for the victim's refusal to accept it. After all, this act is now found to be rape only if it has been proven that violence has been committed or threatened with it. In this highly conspicuous case of a 10-year-old who was two adult men, the act was not convicted of rape precisely because the court considered that it should be proved that there was clear violence or a clear threat of violence, that is, a lack of consent was not enough to make a rape of two adult men. And now I would ask you again: are you prepared to accept this amendment to Parliament's women's network that a lack of consent would be a criterion for rape in criminal law?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u33	Mr President! I will not take a long stand on this court ruling on this one rape case. I am not going to go into any further comments on this matter. As regards this change in the identity of rapes, this method of writing and identification has been thoroughly evaluated in 2014 by the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs and by the Minister of Justice in the last parliamentary term. And then it has been concluded that if a lack of explicit consent — and now it must be remembered that it is still the case at the moment that coercion to sexual acts is a basic element of rape — then there would be an ex-post addition to it, there will be, there will be, there will be, there will be, there will be, there will be major problems, which Parliament has also recognised, which are fundamental to the principle of criminal law. It's not a simple thing. But we all have the will to get raped.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u34	Next and one more question for this theme. — Mr Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u35	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Det är alltid otroligt jobbigt när ett barn blir usatt för ett sexualbrott. Därför är det otroligt viktigt att förundersökningen, hela processen, är så snabb som vöjligt och håller en så hög klass som vöjligt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u36	Mr President! I'll try to move on in one minute. I am well aware of this problem. We have many processes going on in criminal law, where the child does not get the position he should have, but not in the main role, which is not always the case at times. In other words, if there is violence between parents, crimes, this is always a sensitive question, the setting up of a child’s position so that he is not too prominent in certain matters, interrogations or others, but on the other hand we also go ahead of the child’s interests. We are constantly engaged in this dialogue, and now it is important for the government to take forward the project of reforming the services of children and families, that these services are also taken into account in preventive services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u37	Next question: Green Parliament Group, Olli-Son Parviainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u38	Madam President! I'll continue with the child theme. This week, the Ombudsman for Children handed over to Parliament a report on the state of the rights and well-being of Finnish children. The Ombudsman describes the situation in Finland as structural indifference. According to the report, government cuts have led, for example, to a confusing situation in early childhood education. As a result, the government has raised group sizes, weakened nursing standards, and the children are divided into two castes. Our hope for the future lies with those who have a subjective right to early childhood education and those who have the stigma of parental employment. Madam President! The life situation of parents must never affect the rights of the child. I would like to ask Minister Grahn-Laasonen: will the government at last restore the subjective and equal right of day care for all children?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u39	Mr President! In Finland, every child is entitled to early childhood education at least 20 hours a week, which is 5 hours more than in Sweden. Over it, early childhood education is provided to families as necessary, and the law states that if the child’s best interests are and the child needs, for example, for social reasons, such as family-related problems or child learning findings more than early childhood education should be provided by law. Similarly, in yesterday’s report by the Ombudsman for Children, to which I was familiar, I can easily relate to the findings relating to the fragmentation of our service system. There is talk of structural indifference, about the culture of sending away, that is, whether we can confront families and children as individual, unique people and families and cases, even when we talk about difficult situations, overgenerational poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u40	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u41	Madam President! The rights of the child are indivisible, or at least should be. This policy must be based on the fact that decisions to increase inequality between children are simply not taken. The Child Ombudsman reports that the government has turned the welfare state into a state of underachievement. We will no longer be able to bring in disadvantaged children. We Greens are not in favour of a children's class society. This development must be addressed. The position of children describes how society views the future, it describes the values of our society. I would ask Mr Grahn-Laasonen again: what urgent steps are you taking to give every child the same opportunities for good education and life?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u42	Mr President! One of the ways in which we are promoting this is to participate in early childhood education. In other words, I am most concerned that children who would benefit from early childhood education often take the least part. In other words, we have the lowest participation rates in early childhood education in the Nordic countries and, you can say, in all OECD countries. From the beginning of this year, among other things, the government significantly reduced early childhood education fees. It feels in the family purse, eases the difficult financial situation and brings 6,700 families into free early childhood education. And now we are launching an experiment on free early childhood education for five-year-olds. Here are a few actions. Furthermore, I have already mentioned the development of family services, which is absolutely essential. For example, though, in the future, maternity clinics and day care centres could work more closely together to support the family and also parenthood in the best interests of the child. The new law on early childhood education is currently the subject of opinions and underscores the primacy of the child’s best interests more strongly than before. In addition, we promote equality in education, among other things, through the development of comprehensive school.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u43	In order to deal with all the questions, I will admit one more, Mr Torsti.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u44	Mr President! The Minister raised its main issue, namely participation in early childhood education, and in particular the participation of children who are currently not fully involved. Unfortunately, these methods, which were introduced, have gone wrong. This is not just my personal opinion; we have a recent report from the Economic Policy Evaluation Council published in January. It states very clearly that, yes, these free-of-charge trials or price reductions may benefit the labour market situation, but they do not address the issue to which the Minister referred, namely the participation of the children most in need of early childhood education and in the most vulnerable situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u47	Mr President! From this speech it could almost have been concluded that you believe that early childhood education fees should not have been reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u50	Next question: Parliament of the Left Alliance, Mrs Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u51	Madam President! There is now a consultation on the reform of the Animal Welfare Act, which is to be called the Animal Welfare Act. But I want to ask the ministers: Can we be sure that it really contributes to animal welfare? Animals are sentient creatures, and the vast majority of Finns want good and proper conditions for animals, better than what they are now. The explanatory statement in the legal text states that animals must be guaranteed the possibility of species-specific behaviour. However, there is a gap in the draft law in the consultation round in the size of drinking water. You are in the process of making a law in which there is no constant supply of drinking water for animals. Is drinking water not a species-specific need for animals? Minister Leppä, from the wealth of thousands of lakes and abundant water reserves in the famous Finland, this seems as strange as it may seem.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u52	Madam President! The Animal Welfare Act already describes how wide-ranging the issue is in this case. We want to bring much more to animal welfare now than just pain and pain, we want to bring an entire perspective on welfare. This is the starting point for the legislative reform as a whole and for this draft in the consultation. As far as drinking water is concerned, of course it's obvious: It is the basic requirement of living as a whole that there is water. It must be offered, it is already in its present form, it will continue to be so. Then, how and how it is recorded in the law: Now is the time to give feedback on that animal welfare law in the consultation. On the basis of this, the consultation is genuine and we will draw new conclusions and look at the ways in which they can be made even better if there are good proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u53	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u54	Madam President! This government did not want to reform the role of the Animal Protection Commissioner, which gives an unfortunate ugly impression of the government's attitude towards animal welfare. Rather, the attitude emphasizes the understatement of animal welfare. Can we now count on the views of experts to be taken into account in the draft law after the consultation so that we can eradicate this country, for example, wild and free-flowing dog puppy production, and so that the breeding of dogs does not serve people’s preferences but the well-being of the dog, and so that cruel cases of animal abuse cannot be repeated by the same hands, or that small piglets are not castrated without anesthetics? Finns want better conditions for animals, including veterinarians, Evira, animal welfare organisations and the Left Alliance. You will not ignore the views of the Finnish people, will you?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u55	Mr President! All those questions I can answer 'yes'. Each of those issues is included in the draft and, as I said just now, after the consultation, we will assess whether there is still a need to improve the text contained in the opinion. As far as the Councilman is concerned, we have assumed that, once we have a network of authorities to monitor the issue of animal protection, we have already strengthened it, and this new law will give the authorities new powers, which are quite right, so there should be. At the same time, we pay particular attention to the flow of information between authorities, the exchange of information, so that there will be no blind spots. And it is true that in some respects it has happened that the various authorities have not been aware of the matter, and that is why the new law specifically emphasizes this and this has also been put at the centre there. It is much better that we have enough animal welfare officers in different parts of the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u56	And one more question. — Mr Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u57	Mr President! The Animal Protection Act is really out of date, it dates back to 1996, and in 20 years there has been a huge amount of new information about animal behaviour, animal intelligence and the suffering they have suffered. The aim of the law is to guarantee species-specific behaviour, but unfortunately there are many areas where this remains. This is because, as has been said, the aim of the law is to introduce a reform that must not cost anything, and then it is clear that conditions cannot be improved. I would ask the Minister how, for example, you can see that fur animals are now able to practice their species-like behaviour in their small cages. No change has now been proposed to this effect. I also ask how you see that grazing animals are able to practice their typical grazing behaviour with this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u58	Mr President! If I start with that last, grazing. I didn't understand what you mean, how they could handle their behavior. Of course, as has been the case so far, grazing is an extremely important part of the life of all farm animals; it is quite obvious. There's nothing to be done about it. It is not restricted, quite the contrary, by the fact that we will of course define and many sectors have already defined much, much more stringent welfare criteria for both grazing and many others than the law itself. That is a very important and good thing. On this point, I fully agree that the law currently in force and the research data that followed must be taken into account. This has been taken into account and will continue to be taken into account. It is constantly becoming new, and therefore the typical behaviour of those animals must be possible, and it is not the form of treatment, it is the building, it is the treatment. It's up to us people. Therefore, these must be in harmony with each other so that when
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u59	In order to give the floor to all the authors of the question, we will always take it at a quick pace. Next question: Swedish Parliament Group, representative Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u60	Irade the Talman! Enligt planen ska landskapsvalet hållas i slutet av october detta år. Samtidigt är lagstiftningen gällande landskapen och vårdreformen allt ¤ slutbehandlad. Situationen är både speciell och märklig.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u61	Mr President! There is a lot of debate on the transfer of elections, but it is all the more important to discuss the content of the elections. Now we are dealing with an important reform, which was also being carried out by opposition parties during the last parliamentary term. The reform of the electoral system in the context of such reform will in any case require a new situation and adaptation. There is not going to be a situation where significant changes in the administrative system or changes in tasks will be made in the municipal, provincial or, for example, in a certain decision-making process at the parliamentary level, where, in a way, all things would be known for years in advance. The elections are coming, they are in October 2018, and the parliamentary elections will take place in the spring following that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u62	And Minister Vehviläinen still wants to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u63	I would like to supplement the Minister of Justice's statement that, once the government has stated that this reform is to take effect on 1 January 2020, the regional elections must be held next autumn so that the first provincial councils can take all the necessary, important decisions relating to their activities, their economy and the establishment of the whole province. I would also like to remind you that last summer, when the Constitutional Committee delivered its own opinion, the Constitutional Committee said that this reform was urgent, important and necessary, and that is why we are sticking to this timetable. And we hope that we will be able to deal with the whole, which has been before us for almost a year now, carefully here in Parliament, and the Freedom of Choice Act will also be on the table in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u64	Next question: Christian Democratic Parliament Group, Päivi Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u65	Mr President! My question concerns the staffing of day care centres. In Yle’s news, a schoolteacher in Helsinki told that he would not put his own child in a day care centre where he himself works, and the basic problem is too small a staffing scale, too large groups of children who cause a chaotic situation in day care. And with its own decisions, the government has pushed down the level of early childhood education by increasing group sizes. When you, Minister Grahn-Laasonen, have vigorously promoted the reform of family leave — which has now failed — which would shift the focus from home care for young children to municipal day care, have you considered that many families choose home care because the quality of day care and early childhood education is poor? So there is no high-quality early childhood education that we are talking about. Are you going to correct the decision on the group size of early childhood education that has proved to be harmful?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u66	Mr President! Early childhood education is well regulated in Finland and also very high-quality in international comparisons so that we can be proud of our day-care centres, and there professionals work daily, which I also prove as a customer. And at the forefront of the development of early childhood education we have not only the mentioned degree of participation but also the quality of early childhood education. At the moment, there is a new law on early childhood education, which underscores the competence of staff, its relevance to the quality of early childhood education, and brings the child's advantage to the day-to-day planning of early childhood education. Similarly, during this term of government, it has been carried out, and progress has been made, that every daycare centre is currently planning its activities very carefully. As far as staffing measures are concerned at the moment, unfortunately we have also received distressed messages from the Ministry, and they are due to the fact that these regulations, which are enshrined in the law, are not strictly respected in all municipalities. And this must be addressed, of course,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u67	Next question: the Central Parliamentary Group, Mrs Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u68	Mr President! We have received justifiable feedback from almost all parts of Finland about the poor winter maintenance of our roads. The roads have been either uninvited or dangerously slippery. Indeed, citizens and professional drivers are genuinely concerned about road safety. Last week we received information from the Ministry of Transport and Communications that the situation is now improving. Thank you for that. Minister of Transport, extreme weather phenomena have increased and are every day and every summer. How do you see the winter care of our roads at the moment, and what improvements or reforms will be made both this winter and, in particular, for the coming years, for the winter maintenance of roads?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u69	Madam President! Winter maintenance has really caused a lot of feedback from both professional and individual drivers. We have decided to present and implement a three-tier measure. First, we have transferred and allocated EUR 2 million to winter maintenance for this winter, and it will raise the winter care class by about 1,300 kilometres of roads. It also aims to improve the effectiveness of controls and to ensure better preventive measures. The second measure is to ensure that the law on road transport and the transport system defines the criteria for the level of service and control. This bill has gone to the consultation yesterday, and it would in future give more backrest and also structural improvement to our winter maintenance and, in general, to our maintenance of the road. The third measure is to ensure that we have transparent and good works models that agree on these measures to keep you in good shape. These will be implemented in such a way that the first works will be awarded on this basis as early as October.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u70	Question by the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party: Representative Outi Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u71	Mr President! As already mentioned above, October and regional elections are approaching fast and the nomination of candidates has already started all over Finland. However, the rules on electoral rights have given rise to confusion, a restriction in the proposal, which is much stricter than in the current municipal elections. According to the proposal, a person who is unfit for election is a person who is in a leading or responsible position or comparable position in a company or foundation providing social and health care services and other services falling under the responsibility of the organisation of the province. I would like to ask the minister in question: will the rule of eligibility be implemented in terms of what has been said, or should it be reconsidered?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u72	Mr President! This is a legitimate question. The question of eligibility has been regulated by the Regional Law, and this relates to what is said there, and it has been here for a year now in the Administrative Committee, but I believe that there has been a debate outside the Administrative Committee. I can say that the Ministry of Finance, in its own response a year ago in the summer, drew attention to this when it was asked whether this regulation was absolutely strict. First of all, it must be said that regulation is, therefore, rather strict, that, with freedom of choice, regional councils will decide on a number of issues of social security, including the range of services provided by these customer notes and social services centres and so on, and that is why a strict restriction has been imposed. But I have also received a lot of feedback that they are too strict, even from the point of view of the sole entrepreneur and the SME sector. That is why I am prepared to see that if there is a desire here to look at it again, it is possible, but at the same time we have to look at the obstacle rules that they are strict enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u73	Now we have a few minutes. I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u74	Mr President! From a democratic point of view, it does not seem reasonable for the same person to be a decision-maker at three different elected levels: local, national and regional. The RKP has called for consensus and rules of play to prevent Members of Parliament sitting in elections in the province. What do the government and the Minister of Justice think of this in principle? Is it reasonable for us to have the same decision-makers at even three different levels?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u75	Mr President! The democratic system is now being implemented at various levels. At local level, certain common issues, different issues in the regional elections, different issues in the parliamentary elections and still different issues at European level, even in the presidential election on certain other matters. The constitutional right of people to participate in social affairs is an extremely hard right. It should not be narrowed down lightly. Not by law, but perhaps not by recommendations from this house. The second point is what the parties then want to do in their own measures, but I would not go forward, at least as Minister of Justice, with projects which, on certain grounds, limit the participation of some people in deciding on social services, for example, in their own region. They are important services and are a very big issue for many voters. Similarly, it may be necessary to decide on educational services in the municipality of residence. Which means: two organisations,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u77	Mr President! I noted earlier when the Minister of Justice hoped that the debate would be postponed from election time to content. I'm sure this is a good wish. Then you just have to remember that there is not yet one law that has been adopted that would give these future provinces the content or the task framework that these complaining decision-makers are going to make. It's pretty good to keep that in mind. But now that there is such a strong desire for elections in October and the Ministry of Justice has been concerned about election participation on several occasions, and the Ministry of Justice is launching the campaign because the Finns will then go to the urn in October and vote, then perhaps the question at the end of this Question Time is appropriate that how on earth do you do this to make the Finns interested in the regional elections?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u78	Is Secretary Häkkänen? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u79	Mr President! There is now no special campaign, there is only widespread concern that in Western democracies, one of the main threats to social systems is low voting turnout. Today, at the Ministry of Justice, we published so-called municipal democracy indicators, which can read a very sad development, especially regarding the participation of younger age groups in the democratic system. This threat is therefore serious that in 10 to 20 years' time we will have too many people who no longer participate in social influence, and that is the joint concern of this Chamber. If trust and legitimacy are lost in the political system, then, in general, difficult things have happened in history.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u80	And briefly, Minister Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u81	In short, the Ministry of Finance has this week informed us that in March, a campaign, specifically aimed at residents, for citizens, is beginning to be called ‘Regular Assistance’. I share Mr Räsänen's concern that it is right and important for us to start talking about the content, because it is important that people know what they decide when they are voting for the first decision-makers in the county council. They say there are no laws. There are more than 40 laws already to be adopted here, and when we make sure that we get them adopted at the end of May-June, we have a huge chance, and that must be the case, that the elections will be held in the autumn and then the provinces will begin on 1 January 1920.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u82	That concludes Question Time. - Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u83	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u84	Mr President! For almost a year, more than 40 laws have been under discussion in the Parliament in connection with regional and social reform. The main laws are already under discussion, such as the Regional Law, the Law on Social Welfare, the Act on Local Government Shares, the Regional Finance Act and the Act on the Implementation of the Reform. In March, the Act on freedom of choice for social services and the Act on the Implementation of Regional Reform and the Act on the State Authorisation and Control Agency Creative will be discussed. Later in the spring, the Regional and Growth Services Act and the Road Act are still under discussion. The amendment of the Municipal Guarantee Centre Act, which is now being presented, is closely linked to the implementing acts of the Law on the transfer of assets in the regional and social security reform, in particular the transfer of loan liabilities. According to the draft law on enforcement, hospital districts, special care districts and regional councils acting as joint municipal authorities will be transferred to the regions with their assets and liabilities from the beginning of 2020. Before presenting the amendment to the Guarantee Center Act, let me say a few words about the current municipal funding system: Municipal funding forms the backbone of the municipal financial system. Plc and the Municipal Guarantee Centre for its fundraising. Through the Guarantee Centre, all Finnish municipalities have jointly and severally guaranteed the financing of the municipal sector. The operation of the Guarantee Centre is governed by the Act on the Municipal Guarantee Centre, which entered into force in 1996. In order to fulfil its purpose, the Guarantee Centre may, as provided for in Article 1a of the Act, grant guarantees to credit institutions owned directly or indirectly by municipalities or controlled by municipalities, i.e. in practice municipal financing, for the purpose of raising funds used for lending to municipalities and joint municipal authorities and to entities wholly owned or controlled by municipalities. This has made it possible to raise competitive funds to meet the needs of the municipal sector. As a result of the regional and Sote reform, joint municipal authorities would be in the process of transferring debts to the regions, which amounted to approximately EUR 1.4 billion at the end of 2016. The vast majority of this, about 95%, is loans from the current hospital districts. According to the information available, approximately 50 per cent of the loans from joint municipal authorities in nursing districts are currently credited by Municipal Finance Corporation and thus indirectly guaranteed by the Municipal Guarantee Centre. The amount of credit transferred has already increased since the end of 2016 and will continue to increase, especially as a result of hospital investments. New investment permits have now been granted for some EUR 1.6 billion in the government's proposal. The current Municipal Guarantee Centre Act, and consequently the loan terms of Municipal Finance Corporation, are due to the fact that the loans granted by Municipal Finance Corporation cannot be transferred to future provinces without legislative measures and to the regional service centre referred to in Chapter 16 of the Regional Law. Therefore, a provision should be added to the Municipal Guarantee Centre Act under which loans and other commitments granted by Municipal Finance Corporation to transfer from joint municipal authorities and municipalities referred to above would remain unchanged in connection with the transfer of responsibility for the provision of social welfare, health care and rescue services, and there would not be an obligation on the Municipality Finance Corporation to terminate commitments due to the change of debtor. Loans transferred from joint municipal authorities to the provinces are to be provided with a state guarantee, so the risk of defaulting on loans is extremely low. As a result, the proposal does not increase the risks of the Guarantee Centre and hence its members. At the end of 2016, the share of loans from nursing districts in the total lending of Municipal Finance Corporation was approximately 4 per cent. The relative share is likely to increase by the end of 2019 but still remain moderate at an estimated 6-7 %. The question of freedom of choice for social welfare and health care will be addressed in the future, in particular in the area of basic health care. The present change cannot be considered to change the volume of funds raised through the municipal guarantee centre system to such an extent that it could be considered to be jeopardised. The guarantee scheme is not used to finance economic activities. In practice, these are loans to existing medical districts, and there is no change in the use of funding. These are non-economic loans and the proposal is therefore not incompatible with EU competition law. This proposal has been prepared by the Ministry of Finance as official work and has been asked for appropriate opinions. And it should be noted that this law comes into force at the same time as other social and regional legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u85	Mr President! This is a well-functioning proposal, and it is precisely because, now that this major reform is coming, it also transfers these responsibilities, debts and other obligations to the provinces from existing joint municipal boards. This then creates such a theoretical possibility, of course, that when municipal funding is owned by municipalities, then ultimately the municipalities are there to answer. Well, of course this will not happen, because the state has promised to take responsibility for this part of the provinces, but perhaps this is a theoretical possibility. Perhaps that brings me to this question, which I thought would be nice if the Minister had time to comment on. After all, even this theoretical possibility would have required future provinces to become members of municipal funding. On the part of the government, it is justified that this should not be done now, because it is a question of this transitional period, which in itself is quite understandable. But how does the Minister see this future? Would it make sense for the provinces to be in the future, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u86	Mr President! It is a good thing that the new situation will ensure that these new players also receive the same low-cost loan for their needs as services to citizens are being developed. In a way, it would be a rather strange situation that when municipal services are transferred to a new joint municipal authority, the financial position of the new operator would be substantially weaker than the current situation. It is worth recalling the opinion of the Constitutional Committee from June 2017, because it was also stated the other way around that, when there are municipalities whose properties, with this reform, may even lose their value — as they say in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — the State will be liable in this case. That it also works the other way round: the new operator will be given the same starting point as the existing operators, and then, when these former operators have built health centres, including health centres, with tax money — let us say now that the typical rural community, in which the health centre may be under-used and a building may even be completely excluded from the purpose for which it was originally built — then, in the case of this new opinion of the Constitutional Committee, that the municipality cannot be left to the trees because the system is changing, but must be fully compensated in accordance with the normal procedure. In other words, this system works in both directions: that the new operator is now given the opportunity to make sure that the asset does not lose its value and, in that case, the municipality loses the right that the municipality has to possess its own property and therefore has independent jurisdiction over its own affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u87	Mr President! This bill is justified in many ways, but there are some details here that have been raised by some kind of debate, and to some extent also points that have given rise to some concern. One such thing is undoubtedly: now that some 1.5 billion of loans are being transferred from the municipalities, for which the municipalities would still be responsible through this guarantee centre, even though the loans no longer fall within the remit of the municipalities, the question is, of course, whether the state should somehow take over this guarantee of funding, not just guarantee the repayment of loans by means of municipal funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u88	Mr President! It is very good here to discuss this whole, the financing of municipalities and also the guarantee of this funding. Indeed, as Mr Räsänen has said here, there is also the role of municipal funding. That is a very important monetary institution. It now operates under the supervision of the European Central Bank, finances the financing needs of municipalities, including the construction of public utility construction almost entirely. Funding is provided through municipal funding, which means that it is important to safeguard its function even in the event that the municipal balance sheets are transferred to the regional balance sheet. I would have asked how this whole package has been discussed, taking into account the role of municipal funding as part of the European Central Bank's supervisory system.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u89	The debate on this matter is not quite over yet, but a one-minute speech to the Minister on the spot.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u90	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to Mrs Räsänen that the provinces cannot become members of the Municipal Guarantee Centre because the provinces do not have the right to tax, [JoonaRäsänen intermediate call] As regards these property arrangements, Mr Hoskonen said that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs required such a compensation system to be carried out, and the Administrative Committee was given a reply in December, and it is being discussed by the Administrative Committee. Then there will be concerns about the functioning of municipal funding in the future: I have also heard some of the concerns about how it will work in the future. I just want to say that the more we have looked at the details and the duubies in the Ministry of Finance, the more we believe that this will not jeopardise the functioning of municipal funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u91	Mr President! Just as the Minister said. I understand very well why, during the transitional period, the provinces cannot become members of municipal funding. But the question now is what will happen in the future, and this is essentially linked to the potential tax law of the provinces, which is now also being investigated. This is, after all, largely related to the autonomy of the provinces. When we think of the basic pillars of self - rule, there are actually three. The first is the elections, then the second is the general sector, and the third is the tax law. These elections are already here, and then the question is: what happens to this tax law? The general sector is not coming, but it is quite a wide range of tasks. And then, when we think about this future of self-government, it would probably be logical to think about tax law as well. This leads us to the fact that, in a situation where this would happen, it would probably be logical for these provinces to be members of municipal funding, so that we do not have to build double systems in this country if that happens. This was, in a way, the idea of my question, and the Minister quite rightly replied that, of course, this cannot be the case at the moment, but it is good to think about what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u92	Mr President! In fact, Mr Räsänen asked me exactly what I was thinking about: if, in the coming decades, in the 20th to 30th century, in the future, we are going to have a right to taxation in the provinces, could these provinces then be members of this guarantee centre? However, now that it is possible to assume, in view of demographic change and this development, that perhaps in the future the tasks of municipalities will be reduced and that the need for municipal mergers, as it were, will disappear as a result of the regional reform, in a way that the provinces would take the place of municipalities. Would this be possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u93	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u94	Mr President! It is therefore a legislative initiative to amend Article 6 of Chapter 4 of the Employment Contracts Act. My bill received a little more than 20 signatures across party lines, and I am very pleased about that. This is a rather minor change in the law, which would mean that parents, workers, would be entitled to temporary leave for up to four days in the event of a child under 12 years of age suddenly becoming ill. Today the law is that when a child under 10 years of age suddenly falls ill such a right is. So a change of one word into the law, but very important to these children and families in their everyday lives. Today we have been discussing children, families and their rights, and yesterday we also had a heated and rather emotional debate on the maternity law on children and their rights. I believe that today, when the right to temporary child care leave is limited to parents of children under the age of 10, it does not serve the need for a child who has suddenly become ill in Finnish families. In many families with children, especially during this winter season, the situation is rather difficult when both children and parents are ill. Children are individuals. Some do well on their own, but it is very difficult to be alone all day without parental care, especially in the case of a severe fever or a norovirus. Many parents feel that a ten-year-old is not yet old enough to be sick alone. Among other things, the law is circumvented by taking sick leave itself. The amendment of the Employment Contracts Act so that parents' right to temporary child care leave would continue for two years longer would therefore be in the best interests of children. A child must be entitled to good care and the presence of an adult when he or she is ill. There are also other types of problems related to family equality in the right to temporary child care leave. The remuneration of temporary child care leave varies according to collective agreements. In addition, some employers may require a medical certificate for the first day. This may lead to completely unreasonable situations when a child in sick illness has to be taken to a doctor in half - condition. There are many fine speeches about reconciling work and family in this Chamber, too, but this equation is not made any easier by the hardening attitudes of employers. I hope that, even if there are less than 100 signatures in this bill, it will be welcomed. In the municipal sector, labour market organisations have now agreed to raise the age limit for this temporary leave from 10 to 12 years, but it would be good to get it into the law, to this section 6 of Chapter 4 of the Employment Contracts Act, so that all children have equal and equal rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u95	Mr President! Mr Hänkäer well points out that this is already a practice in certain social organisations, and I consider it an essential part of the moment when it comes to sudden illness, which cannot be prepared for, so I think it is very clear that we should have the opportunity to take care of the child what the number of days is. But at the moment the child falls ill there is really no one else; we do not have such an instance that we can help the child without this having the security of the employment contract law so that the parent can do it without fear of his or her own employment relationship. And in that sense, I support and encourage the committee to deal genuinely with this on the basis of that example and to hear precisely the parties involved in the municipal sector that what this has meant, what the costs are, because I do not believe that these costs cannot be estimated on the basis that it is first in the best interests of the child. This will also provide families with the right security to answer for parenting and enable them to care for a child who has suddenly become ill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u96	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-22-ps-11.u97	Mr President! I do not want to prolong the debate, of course, but thank Mrs Myllykoski for the support you have expressed. Of course, at this point in time when this temporary leave is being discussed, I would also like to point out that it cannot be kept if one of the parents is at home for some reason, for example, unemployed or on study leave, but that in practice means that both parents are working and are not on leave. Today, one problem has been the need to obtain proof from the other party, the employer, that the other is indeed working, and this bureaucracy should certainly bring relief and trust between workers and employers. But indeed, as Mrs Myllykoski said there, we hope that this bill will move forward in committee and that we can really get something like this from the perspective of equality together. It has been gratifying that both the representatives of the centre and the representatives of the Finns of Peru are behind the bill, that this has a fairly broad political consensus between opposition and government parties.
