ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u2	Madam President! This proposal is already at second reading and there is a unanimous, very good report on it, which I myself agree with. I merely drew attention to the fact that the report: [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u3	Mr President! I share Mr Räsänen's concern about how data protection is implemented today in Finland. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u4	Mr President! Data protection is, of course, a good thing, and it must be and should protect data where it is important. It turns out, however, that there is another side to this coin. The other side is in such cases, for example, a demented elderly person who is being treated in a hospital, and his daughter, for example, would like to know what has happened in that hospital after some operation when you clearly see that something has happened. In fact, he does not receive information about his father or mother unless the person himself can ask for such information, i.e. if the person with dementia or memory problems cannot do so, the family does not receive the information. This is quite a problem, especially in cases where there is a potential risk of maltreatment. It cannot be addressed in any way unless, for example, information about the operation or the follow-up treatment provided by the hospital is available. This is the kind of problem I've been contacted about. People ask where to get it. You don't get a guardian because the trustee handles the money. You can't give a daughter because she's still breathing and alive, but she's already sick enough not to be able to take those papers from there and get information to take it forward. I would hope that at some point we too will be able to pay attention to this, to admit that it is so, and to be careful, however, not to protect ourselves to death, but to get the necessary information to the people who need it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u5	Madam President! Data protection and, on the one hand, the flow of information, information on issues such as the investigation of criminal offences, the protection of victims and similar matters, on the other hand, are necessary, but the two previous speeches have already shown well that there are sides and sides to this. As Mr Heinäluoma pointed out, there is always the possibility of abuse. On the other hand, I believe that irregularities should be tackled and there should be ways of dealing with them, but the fact that someone could abuse something, that is to say, commit an offence or commit a crime, must not, on the other hand, be the reason for not making systems which, as a rule, are intended, for example, to solve crimes or to protect the victim or something else. Mr Tolppanen made one good example of everyday life, then another point of view on this issue. It is very interesting how these have their sides and sides, and we need to strike a balance between the flow of information, access to information and then data protection and individual rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u6	Mr President! This is an important debate, a little follow-up to the theme of yesterday's Question Time, to the extent that doctors are obliged or want to give information, for example, to the authorities or to the police, where these ethical issues are also met by the doctor. I share Mr Räsänen's and Mr Heinäluoma's concern that there is an Orwellian society around the corner where, when you combine bank information, account information, information from the social services, information from doctors, you get an inexhaustible system in which we are all aware, but also the possibility of misuse of this information is very great and, in my opinion, growing in such a situation. In particular, I am concerned about information about children, because the child is preparing for life and it is important that all the information that marries him or can burden him or her later should remain in very few hands in these situations. While we stress the need for the authorities to be able to exchange information and so away, I find it a frightening idea that a person will be labeled in the future on the basis of the information gathered about him. Representative Heinäluoma also took a very important point of view, that even people voluntarily feed on social media information that may later be regretted. It can be detrimental to getting a job or something like this. There should also be such legal certainty that you can ban the publication of certain information and cancel online information about yourself and this type of information, including legal security, from the point of view that you can control it yourself even after you have published something on the social media side. I think this is a debate that should take place. Regrettably, the authorities are not complete either. There are leaks. Whenever any new mandate has been given, there have also been leaks, and Parliament should also pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u7	Madam President! There has been a good and constructive debate here, and indeed, as Mr Heinonen said, the speeches of the representatives, Mr Heinäluoma and Mr Tolppanen, both were good. Representative The Heinäluoto brought up the other side of the matter and Mr Tolppanen raised the other side of the coin. I myself would also like to give examples of the fact that information is not passed on and that information should not be disclosed in certain situations where this would be justified. For example, at the moment there is a situation where, as we know, European citizens are not allowed to stay in Finland if they repeatedly rely on income support. In practice, the situation is that Estonians, for example, who may have worked here, remain in our country and repeatedly rely on income support, i.e. the grounds for stopping their stay in Finland. These social workers who manage their income support and pay it — or Kela officials — see, can say, on a daily basis, such situations that abuse our systems. However, these social authorities are not entitled to inform immigration authorities, such as police officers, of situations where they see that this right to stay in Finland is being abused and repeatedly raise income support. So they have no right to provide this information to the authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u10	Mr President! This issue of the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy is not in any way unambiguous and easy. This started in particular, for example, in relation to international terrorism and crime, since these attacks on the United States of America were carried out in 2001. Since then, citizens have been increasingly concerned about this. There have been various cases of leakage where an individual has considered that it is in the public interest for him to leak out some information, and then the government may have considered that it is even treasonous. So this is also a difficult issue at international level. Representative Heinäluoma pointed out that in Finland, as in many Western countries, there is more and more regulation on this issue. That is true, of course, but on the other hand, more and more crime is taking place on the information networks, especially international crime, and that is why there has inevitably been more regulation. I would like to raise a point relating to the maintenance of national security. Of course, there is this international terrorism, which, among other things, in the annual polls of the National Defence Information Board is now taking place every year at the top of three points of concern to citizens in terms of security. In Germany, for example, various states within this huge country had problems with the exchange of information on asylum seekers, for example, who were suspected of being inclined in some way or even joining a radical organization. In other words, there are also such problems in the exchange of information, and they even exist between EU countries. We have been better aware of this all the time, but this is a continuing challenge for both Finland and all other Western societies, how to balance our Western rule of law at the same time, which includes certain principles, which these terrorists certainly do not support, but at the same time defend the Western state of justice and the security of our citizens. Above all, it is the responsibility of this Parliament to be able to find this balance together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u11	Madam President! This report by the Administrative Committee is good and well-founded. I myself am one of those who took part in the debate. However, I would like to agree with these good opinions which have been expressed here on the legal protection of citizens, including in relation to the processing of personal data. The authorities need cooperation and exchange of information between the authorities in order to carry out their own tasks, but I would like to highlight one aspect here, and that is the monitoring of the use of this information. We have a Data Protection Supervisor, who is a key player in these personal data registers, but in several different contexts the Office of the Data Protection Supervisor has highlighted the lack of resources to monitor the ever-expanding registers. Therefore, the resources of the Data Protection Supervisor should also be more closely taken into account in the future when new registers, new registration systems and so on are set up. A few years ago, there were suspected data-record leaks on the national media. This led, among other things, to a long debate in the Administrative Committee. It was found that the data controller is the Police Government, but when such a stipla in that police action happened that information was leaked, a couple of policemen were brought to justice instead of the controller, the Police Board, being as if on a stick. Yesterday we saw an interesting play in Parliament on this patient information issue when ministers said that they were not very aware of what was being prepared in the Ministry on the legislative side. In any case, a very important moment in Parliament's legislative procedure was at stake, because it is not such an extensive increase in the powers of the authorities — at least I hope so — to do without the knowledge of the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u12	Madam President! To begin with, it must be said, as it were, as a follow-up to the previous speech, that it was an astonishing situation in itself yesterday during Question Time, and it is rare to see a situation in which the articles have been presented in public and neither of the ministers to whom this is due were aware of and could not see them. It was a good thing that we had the answer to our actual question that this law was then not being taken forward by the government in this form. But it must be understandable for the representatives to be confused when the articles are in the public domain and the ministers then did not say that they knew anything. But, Mr President, on this point. In my opinion, these two sides of the coin have also been excellently raised here. On the other hand, there are very good questions as to what Mr Zyskowicz was asking here, and perhaps it would have been good — even so I might have hoped — for the ministers to have been here perhaps to answer them and also to tell us whether there is going to be some sort of intervention in these matters and inaccuracies that have been raised here. And on the other hand, the other half of the coin, which is very substantial and which was wonderfully opened up by Mr Heinäluoto in his own speech, is this kind of privacy protection today, because there is a huge amount of these reforms, where more and more, even for justified reasons, individual information is accessible to the authorities. It is quite right to stop and think about each of these proposals and evaluate the impact of each of them on the traditional protection of unity. Here representatives of Heinäluoma and Haavisto, both mentioned the dangers of Orwellian society, and I am sure that each of us will be concerned if we do not go ahead with our determination. President! I also found it very interesting to think that, in the context of each of these proposals, not only is this issue of privacy specifically considered, considered, examined its effects, but also the view that there are not only authorities, but also this aspect of privacy, which then has all these social media phenomena. Each of us knows how much information about us is collected through it. Mr Heinäluoma said earlier that this social media side alone deserves a special study of what is going on, and I do agree exactly. I think it would be worth making some sort of mapping of social media, perhaps more generally, and a further study of these huge phenomena, which we have to deal with in a whole new world today, as we move more and more to the digital age and to all this world, the difference we know about what the world was sometimes a few ten years ago. And that is why I would like the government to perhaps catch up with this debate, which is taking place here today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u13	All right, let's keep going for a while. I am sure that we will have to suspend this item and, as a result, we will also delete item 4. But let's go for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u14	Mr President! Good speeches. I would, in fact, supplement that myself, when I have been at the Local Register Office for years in matters of guardianship, that the appointment of a guardian can also be extended to matters relating to a person, i.e. if such a situation is pending, please contact the Local Register Office and ask it for an extension. You can also have access to health information. That extension of the order will be brought before the court. I can see that many have missed the fact that on 1 January 2007, more than 10 years ago, we came into force a law on lobbying, which allows each of us to pre-determine his own health care when his own ability to function is lost, and on asset management, and even who manages these matters fully legally. In other words, I would remind everyone in this Chamber that in the event of an accident or illness, it would be good for everyone to make a lobbying mandate if they want to decide, with good spirit and body, how things are being handled and who is taking care of them, and not just leave it to the authorities to decide. Mr Zyskowicz pointed out that there was no right for the authorities to pass on information in connection with possible abuses of persons legally or illegally present here. I have come to my attention about something that I mentioned to Mr Mattila a few years ago, but it has not come any further. In other words, there are persons in the Child Welfare Services who have presented themselves to adulthood and are there in child welfare care with minors, and the doctor has become aware — they wanted to check — that the person is an adult. This information has not been allowed to be passed on because it has survived during the health check. I think that would be quite significant information for the Finnish Immigration Service, for example, in view of the future of other children, that, for example, children's protection units may include adult persons among minors. Let us now consider a wide range of cases that I am sure we do not need to review out loud. In fact, there are so many of these issues and we now have in the Constitutional Committee the laws on military intelligence and the legislation on civil intelligence, the establishment of a committee and the amendment of the Rules of Procedure and many other legislations that go beyond publicity and secrecy, such as the transfer of public employment and business services to private individuals and the movement of information, the movement of sensitive information, should we now hold a general debate in Parliament on data protection rights? This is such a huge deal that we would be happy to have a debate on this. This is so fragmented now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u15	Madam President! I would like to continue with that speech by Mrs Mere insofar as there is a certain degree of agreement and support for this idea, but I would also like to see that we should organise a data protection course or training course for citizens throughout Finland, because it seems that today, when data is collected and collected, it is very easy for citizens to provide it. Unnoticeably, very detailed information is placed in the various sites, which may then be misused by combining a little. Then, in some cases, criminals are more easily involved. The social media and online world mentioned here is doing just that to answer all kinds of questions and not to think about what the end result is. In other words, there would be a need for guidance in the basic skills of the citizens themselves, probably for each of us. Mr President! On this issue of data protection, when it comes to criminal law and criminal matters, not to mention national security issues, there must always have its own scale on which to move forward. I believe that the discussion of the Constitutional Committee on this matter is helpful in that it can be dealt with in the order in which the ordinary law is adopted, which will then tell us, at least us legislators, where we are going on this matter. This data protection is always, as has already been said here, at least the two sides. Very easily, too, when privacy — or, to put it better, data protection — is taken care of and adhered to, it also leads to problems. And I cannot fail to repeat the idea, perspective and information that I have said in this Chamber before and which is related to such a simple matter as the rehabilitation services taken home by veterans: Kela today provides municipalities with information about a veteran by name and with regard to the social security number, but no address information. It is behind this data protection for some reason, when bureaucracy, in a way, makes it difficult for these services to be carried home with this data protection. In this respect, at least one can say that data protection has not been respected at this point in the so-called famous common sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u16	As the pressure on the timetable is high, I will only give answers to these four people who are on the list here. — You can then make the requests for the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u17	Mr President! There has been a good debate here on data protection and disclosure, and there are indeed two sides. Heinäluoma and Haavisto raised the information on social media, and it is very difficult that they can be misused. International security is of concern, it was raised by Meri and Zyskowicz, as well as the veterans' information, which Rossi raised just now. Two things: If too much information is protected, it is very difficult, and it is a good example that my mother died of malpractice in 2004. The daughter was not informed the following day whether a measure had been taken. I didn't even get that information for my nursing profession or as a daughter, and it was difficult. You would have had to take the hospital or take the people to court, and that was pointless, because you can't get your mother back. And the other is that the Local Register Office
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u18	Mr President! The analysis of information exchange opens up the possibility of developing services, even creating entirely new types of services. However, we must not forget that this technology also allows for a completely new type of abuse. That is why monitoring, monitoring and guidance are so important. A good example of how challenging this guidance is is is that we now have the highest police chief in court because they have not understood the instructions and legislation they themselves have prepared. Nor should we forget that security and privacy are both fundamental rights protected by the Constitution. They are not subordinate to one another; they are both equally important, and we need to find that balance. And finally: indeed, Mrs Mere's proposal for a topical debate is very good, because we do not have an overview of what the individual legislative proposals constitute, for example, the opening of accounts to the authority — yesterday we talked about health information and so on — so that I agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u19	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here and we have talked about the legal security of the subject of the information. Mr Zyskowicz gave a good speech on these examples, which could benefit from the exchange of information between the authorities. I agree with Mr Zyskowicz that I believe that this law should be seen as an opportunity and not a threat, and when we talk about the legal protection of citizens, it is always worth looking at now whether we are talking about the legal protection of the person whose information is being spoken about, or whether we are talking about the legal protection of the person who could be saved through the provision of this information. As has been said, there are two sides to the coin. Of course, as an official, I see that the exchange of information between authorities is not a problem; it is an opportunity and it is a source of wealth; it is an opportunity to prevent possible violations of justice and even terrorist acts. Finally, the fact that there is a leak in this house too. It can hardly ever be prevented or avoided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u20	Madam Speaker! Mr Zyskowicz raised two examples, on which I agree with him. I just want to say that during the last parliamentary term I tried to push forward the fact that fingerprint data in the passport register could have been used in the investigation of serious crimes, but it simply ran into the Constitutional Committee, which felt that it was not possible to use this information even in the fight against serious crimes, because that means interference in the protection of private life and personal data. So the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has taken a very clear position on this issue. Although the fingerprint register can, for example, be used to identify the deceased, and it has been done, I personally believe that it should also be possible to use fingerprint data for these serious crimes, which Mr Zyskowicz described.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-09-ps-112.u21	Partly for the sole, part of the second reading will be presented in order of 6. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 24/2018 vp will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
