ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u2	Madam President! Digitalisation, technological development, climate change, urbanisation and intelligent rural areas are global megatrends that change the operating environment for transport and communications. In a rapidly changing world, the role of the authorities also needs to be constantly reviewed. In order to meet the diverse and changing challenges of the future, public administrations need to be able to increase strategic agility and further reduce fragmentation and siloisation. By reforming governance, we will ensure that Finland can continue to succeed in the future and that customers effectively receive the services they need from the authorities. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u5	Let's open a discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u6	Madam President! The proposed agency reform will contribute to the development and construction of digital transport services and business. The reform would also strengthen this kind of cross-sectoralism. It would bring the services of the communications and transport sector together in an easily accessible set of services that can therefore be approached by citizens. The reform of the fairway administration must ensure that the funding for the maintenance of the corridors, including the financing of the lower roads, is secured. The maintenance and development of the transport network must take account of the needs of heavy goods transport, i.e. roads and roads must be built where that national product is also being produced, in other words also in the regions. The private road network should be taken into account when preparing for national and regional planning, such as our timber management. And it is indeed important that the Cyber Security Centre is involved in this. It is today, and we must be present in it, but I particularly hope that the reform of the agency will ensure that balanced regional development in Finland and that Finland as a whole remains inhabited, and that people are not only concentrated in large cities, but also an opportunity to build proper infrastructure in other parts of Finland. Combining the Agency and stepping up its activities can also contribute to deregulation. We still need to be able to show what savings the reform of the agency is aiming for and how it is measured. At least the opinions of the experts have been positive in the Committee on Transport and Tourism that this should be done. Indeed, it is hoped that this will enable us to improve the efficiency of the transport and communications sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u7	Madam President! — Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. — major changes in the transport sector and in the communications sector, and this reform of the agency will come into this big picture. You have to hope it works out well. Transport and communication are, in fact, undergoing a major change. Digitalisation, transport service thinking and transport marketing and its emergence will bring transport and communications sectors closer together significantly in the future and even now. After all, this brings together Trafi and FICORA as the Transport and Communications Agency as the second entity of this Agency reform. This will distinguish between traffic and physical bus maintenance, i.e. bus infrastructure from one another to different agencies, when the Fairway Agency will then take over this other side. In my opinion, this is a step in the right direction, in other words, to strengthen this whole entity and to combine it with thinking, as Mrs Alatalo has pointed out in terms of this cross-administrativeity and the violation of interfaces. It is in this essential role. There will certainly be a need for cooperation in the future, and it will then become important for this Fairway Agency, its role will be very important. The road management model must succeed in practice in making this whole work. We need to develop the fairway network. And I welcome the fact that, Minister Berner, you have actively raised this issue of reparation debt and also these major projects and the fact that in the coming parliamentary term, too, this debt of reparation must continue. The need for perhaps 200 to 400 million per year is that we can take care of our road network. I am glad that in your time this has been taken up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u8	Madam President! The winds of reform blow into the transport sector, and this is good. The future will also require reforms in the division of tasks between agencies, and it is important that safety and intelligent transport and regulation and licensing authorities focus on the same agency and administration in the future. There will be a proper picture of the situation and the control of things will be better. What is also important here is that the Fairway Office, which, as was heard in that presentation, includes 400 person-years of work, should manage road, rail and maritime routes, and their development will be the most important task of the Fairway Agency in the future. Good cooperation with the decision-makers in the regions and municipalities is important and I hope that with the regional reform, good cooperation between the Väylä Agency and the regions will start. This will provide the basic routes in Finland and why not even these larger routes are in good condition. It also includes road contracts and maintenance. In these matters, the role and importance of the provinces will increase. I would like to ask the Minister: will the establishment of the Fairway Agency also help with this funding problem in the future, with which these funding for basic management and for larger investments will be made, and will such an agency reform make it easier to prepare for this funding? At this planning stage, agreement between the agencies is also good, as it ensures that the staff in the workplace who move to the new agencies will be happy to join this reform when the preparation is carried out unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u9	Madam President! Transport and communications are in a very big change worldwide, and there are huge developments, and Finland must also be involved in this development, and thank Minister Berner for the tasks you have done. Finland is in the forefront of change. This government proposal, this reform, will respond to the shift in transport and communications, which is taking place. Transport and communication services are more closely linked and are actually one whole and form a mutually supportive entity. It is also important to promote the productivity of the administration in the future, to streamline regulation and also to secure reliable and smooth transport networks for people throughout Finland, especially in the whole of Finland. This reform is very extensive and affects a lot of staff as well. That government proposal, 1760 pages, is a big bill, and it takes time to wade and go through it, and I'm sure you'll find a lot of things there. What is important in my opinion is that the staff and staff are also closely involved in this reform and that everyone's jobs will be secured in the future. This government proposal does not actually have a bearing on regional reform, but in my opinion it fits very well at this time and in this situation, and it is now very important that, in this context, this agency reform also takes place. The division of tasks between the agencies must also be clear in the future. They are becoming clear and there is also a need for intersectoral cooperation between the agencies, as has already been pointed out in previous speeches. The Fairway Office will continue to be a very important player in the future, and I hope that the information from it will always be timely and timely all the time and that people, citizens, will also be informed about this reform and the functioning of the Agency.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u10	Madam President! The proposal itself is certainly exactly what needs to be done today, i.e. more efficient activities, more and more intersectoral cooperation, so that resources are not wasted to do double work, and then this is a very good proposal. It is important to remove the point raised by Minister Berner that there are no silos of this kind but that we can do these things together. And I repeat: it is very important to eliminate this duplication of work. But for my part I think that, at this stage of preparation, this has been the case since those consultation rounds, and what has been the comments, a terrible one-sided one. It should then be flagged that things are going in the right direction, but then it always starts to wonder whether the objectives have been enough to make the operations more effective, if no one thinks that they are taking something away from me, how my duties will change. In that sense, I am a little critical, and on one point in particular, I am very critical of the fact that we in this future agency have a limited liability company in the back when the transport services are being incorporated at the same time. We do not yet have a culture of action or an impact assessment of how the integration of transport services will be within it, within the Agency. I would now like to make it clear that there is a limited liability company within the agency that is governed by the law on limited liability companies. When the law on limited liability companies requires what kind of contracts are to be made, how they are to be concluded, I would like the Minister to be able to dispel the suspicions of the representative that there has been thought about how this whole is to be exported. We're going in a hurry. We have very quick decisions in transport policy. At least it cannot be said that in this period the tracks have been very crooked, but we have gone really fast without assessing what is happening. I cannot, of course, be sure that this does not have an ideological background to the fact that we want the creation of companies and that we want to speed up the creation of companies, and privatisation is moving forward without an assessment of what and how this will affect, overall, this and the good systems that exist in rail transport, for example, when this whole thing is being carried out big and in every sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u11	Madam President! Society imposes a certain obligation on businesses, private people, that productivity must always be improved and renewed and that it must always strive for better. It is good that our administration is doing the same thing: we need to develop, reform, streamline the administrative structures and, in this case, rationalise the division of tasks. This proposal is a good one, it clarifies the scope of the agencies' activities, clarifies their division of tasks and also promotes deregulation in accordance with the Government Programme. During the consultation round, various types of responses to this proposal were received, and it is clear that in parliamentary and committee proceedings we must carefully examine this package of proposals and see that all the articles are properly in place. Furthermore, now that we have major changes in the transport sector, the laws on transport services are coming into force and still being turned over, then the regional reform is coming about, it can be said that a significant part of this administrative sector is currently in the process of change. And now that we also set up this agency structure, which is often in control of this process of change and which implements these measures, special attention must be paid to the process of change itself, so that it stays in control, that everything goes as planned and happens properly, that there will be no excesses and then there will be no omissions when a lot happens at the same time. [Second Vice-President Tuula Haatainen : honourable Members! I would like to inform you that the President of the Republic of Iceland and his party, Mr Jóhannesso, have arrived to follow the plenary session. On behalf of Parliament, I welcome honourable guests to Parliament. [Applause]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u14	Let's go back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u15	Madam President! This reform is a normal development of the administration, which aims to improve the traffic conditions in Finland in the coming years. It must be borne in mind that digitalisation is progressing in any case, which also means that decisions can be taken more quickly and use these modern data-processing tools. There is nothing wrong with it, it is today and it must be taken advantage of. Roads, tracks, transport routes in general, waterways, they are a guarantee of the success of this country, and I hope that, after these spring experiences, we will understand when it has been difficult to break the weather, that we will keep our own transport routes in order from Helsinki to the Utsjoki. On the bioeconomy side, for example, we know today that the transport of wood, for example, requires the operation of all-year-round transport routes. It requires lower road networks, railways. That is why I am a little saddened that I think the attention to inland waterways has been too limited, because, in fact, if we want to transport more and more timber or other heavy traffic in this country, it should, of course, be transferred to the waterways as much as possible, because it would save the road network considerably. And the transport of timber has traditionally taken place on watercourses, before bathing. Today's technology would require better ships. We also have the technology to do that, if we only want to do that. But what is important is that we put the road network in order from the top of the road, those main roads, the highways, but also the lower road network requires a clear change of direction because today we have the condition of the lower road network falling apart. We need a clear change of direction, and I believe that these new opportunities will be able to tackle that problem. The lower road network clearly needs the use of road graders. It used to be the mainstream how this thing was done. The gravel roads were kept in good condition on the highways. Today they have almost disappeared from the Finnish road network. That is why I hope that, now that a new era has come, this issue will be internalised and put in place, because every single tree mott, every raw material stream will practically go from the lower road network to traffic. If the transport does not go, the processing, operation and distribution will not work either. This is why we are now faced with very important issues. Madam President! Finally, I would like to highlight this digitality: an excellent thing. Artificial intelligence is coming, technology is developing enormously, but it will not be able to gain its rights in this country unless we are able to build a country-wide fibre network. It has already been seen quite clearly in the provinces that with a wireless network it just doesn't work, such a network of links in this country can't be built. But when we are building and the state is strongly involved in the construction of a modern information network system based on optical fibre technology throughout the country, then we will succeed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u16	Madam President! The government of our country is completely reshaping the administration of our country in many places, and now there is a proposal for the creation of a Transport and Communications Agency. This government proposal proposes the combination of certain functions of the Finnish Transport Safety Agency, the Finnish Transport Safety Agency and the Finnish Transport Agency, and thus the creation of this new agency, the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency. There is, of course, good justification for this, among other things, it is stated that the objective is to improve the productivity and effectiveness of administration by using resources in a more diverse and efficient way, to achieve synergies and, of course, to respond better to a changed environment. These are worthwhile and good objectives. But as far as the creation of this new agency, the Transport and Communications Agency, is concerned, I would like to draw attention to the internal organisation of this future agency and, in particular, to the way in which the tasks that have hitherto been under the authority of the Finnish Communications Agency will be organised in this new agency. In view of the fact that the tasks of the Transport Safety Agency would be transferred to the new Agency — and this agency is almost two and a half times more staffed than the FICORA — it would therefore be useful to have some clarification and clarification as to how the tasks can be properly organised within this new Agency to be set up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u17	Madam President! The transport network is in order, I have little to say about it. The level at which the country has handled it is sufficient for me, but not necessarily for professional transport, where the requirements are much higher. What has provoked the overall picture is that, in my view, these provisions on which the network is to be used are lagging behind. There are, for example, two lane roads in the urban area, streets where the bus driver and bus transport and taxi are allowed to operate, but the utilisation rate is probably less than 5%. It is also possible to facilitate the operation of the bus in such a way that others are obliged to dodge, but are allowed to drive in the lane. In the United States, for example, motorways are allowed to drive in a certain way another lane where traffic travels faster — if there are more than two people in a car. Similarly, it has surprised me how many countries issue a driving licence to a 16-year-old, but in Finland parents of its age are allowed to take to various events, hockey drills and so on. This aspect, which I would like to say, also calls for consideration in order to make the network rational. But then there are challenges, above all, on this aspect of communication, where, you might say, the whole industry is in a transformation and the result may also be questionable from the point of view of freedom of expression if there is a considerable number of people leaving the sector that allow different opinions to be expressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u18	Mr President! The wheels of history are spinning, and sometimes we go back to the starting point. It is no coincidence that transport and communication are in the same ministry, in the same committee and soon in the same agency. In fact, modern telecommunications was originally created to meet the needs of train traffic when there was a need to communicate information about train movements between stations. The link between transport and communication is once again topical when digitalisation is also revolutionising the structures and business models of traditional transport, at least as thoroughly as the train in time or the internal combustion engine in the road. Modern passenger cars are as much information technology as vehicles, not to mention the autonomous cars, ships and aircraft of the 2020s. And in that world, in the 2020s, the safety of telecommunications and technology is, indeed, critical to transport safety, and that is why this knowledge and assembly of transport and communications is well founded. It is well known that the problems lie there in detail, but that is why we in the committee are hearing them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u19	Madam President! The representative of the plant had an excellent speech: this is how these administrative reforms must be made and followed up on the inevitable development of society, and when all the tasks are under the same agency, it is always better management and coordination than the activities under different agencies. In my opinion, the Minister has set the mood and excellent reforms have taken place during this particular regime. Personally, I am pleased that transport has, as it were, acquired a new role in the development of society as a whole, and that it is not just transport projects that are major transport projects, but also business development projects, housing development projects and so on. And now that Parliament, or all the parties, have seen the need for us to make a 12-year plan of the transport system specifically parliamentaryly, I believe that this reform of the agency will support this 12-year system. It is important that, in due course, we have an outline of what we are doing in this country, because the agency needs to know what to plan, not to plan in vain and then to implement it. In that sense, I welcome this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u20	Madam President! And so much more about traffic, it is worth remembering that in Finland today we still have the possibility that we will have highly qualified, skilled contractors all over Finland who are able to manage the condition of the lower road network. From my own country and from that experience I believe and I am quite sure that these contractors who live there on the ground have the know-how and, above all, knowledge and equipment. Today is the case, you can say that we no longer need much more new ideas for the job. Of course, digital technology, for example, facilitates works contracts and other such red tape, but that big picture, for example, is that when the weather changes, the current contractor group will be able to react very quickly to that road management: even at a few minutes' notice, if the situation gets worse, the road network can be quickly put in place. I hope that this issue will now be taken more into account when the new law comes into force, because it is the problem that has caused great concern in rural areas. For example, in the case of school transport and emergency transport — fire trucks, the equipment used by the rescue service — there are many cases where it has not been completed when the road has been in poor condition. This can't happen. We have the technology, we have the know-how, we have the equipment — there is no problem in itself. Another point that needs to be taken into account is that, when the rail network is being developed, it is precisely heavy transport that should, as far as possible, be carried there on iron wheels, and then I hope that in the future the use of inland waterways will finally be much more abundant than it is today. Of course, the fact that we are dependent on the Russians for the Saimaa Canal is something we seem to have no way out of. If we had wisdom as a nation, we would have to build a cold channel of Kymijoki, go to the TEN network for money, and also build a connection with the Arctic, because in the long run, however, the fact in this world is that look at all the countries that have had the opportunity to operate inland waterways, even if you sit on the Danube for a while: what is going on there? Of course, there is a big, wide river with dirty water, but there is also huge river traffic, huge traffic. Imagine such traffic rising to the roads. That would be a total traffic disaster. So that's where they've been able to use this job, and when they've done it in Russia, they're doing it in Sweden, and they're doing it in Germany, so what's the guarantee that doesn't work for us? It is perfectly possible and very cost-effective, and above all the waterways are known to be such a road that does not feel the wind breaking, neither in the summer nor in the winter, neither in either period.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u21	Madam President! Two more little things. I welcome the fact that, as in the previous Finnish Transport Agency Act, this government proposal contains Article 1, which mentions the balanced development of regions and businesses. It is very important that the Agency is aware of this too, and when these plans are made, then Lapland will be taken into account, Western Finland will be taken into account, the capital region will be taken into account, Southern Finland and, of course, Eastern Finland, that all these will be taken into account equally and the plans will be comprehensive. Another point I would like to draw attention to: Admittedly, there are quite a lot of these reforms now. There is a regional reform — there is transport in a significant role — and then, when we come to these agency reforms, I think it might be good for the committee to see that these responsibilities are clearly addressed to a particular body, that it does not happen that there are two or three different bodies, wherever the responsibilities fall and are directed, because such two-headed or three-headed leadership is practically not a good follow-up. I hope that these responsibilities, then, in committee — if there is a need to reformulate them in some way — will be unambiguous and targeted directly at a particular body.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u22	Madam President! At first, I must agree with Mr Hoskosen's view. In the past, the so-called Channel Party worked very strongly here in Parliament, and I think I was involved in it myself in the late 1990s, and there was a lot of talk about promoting water transport. Now that these environmental aspects and the major emissions targets for transport are ahead of us, a little consideration has been given to this possibility of water transport. Otherwise, with regard to this reform and with regard to all the fact that transport policy will be reformed and will be undergoing major changes — and these opportunities must be seized — two major things I think I should bear in mind, and they are partly in the process of being realised. The first is that there must be a long-term perspective and there must be planning and working together. In transport policy, a great deal of good strategies have been put in place: they come and go, they are put on the shelf, then, in ten years' time, a new strategy for some form of transport will be put in place. There is a need for firmness here, and that is certainly where this reform of the agency partly serves this objective. But the second point that Mrs Myllykoski has already referred to here is that when we make these major social reforms, whether we talk about the war or talk about the energy network or talk about transport policy, we must remember that when we represent democracy here as a parliament meeting in the Parliaments, we must take care of the role of the public authorities and the public sector as drivers, directors and hosts of these reforms. In other words, we must not be too enthusiastic about the fact that the public sector and the role of democracy in both transport policy and other reforms cannot be maintained as the last-hand driver and engine. That's what I sometimes worry about when there's a little too much enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u23	Madam President! This must be the way it is in the spring to reform, and it is of course good: spring is the time for growth, and that is the way it is. As a friend of rubber and rail transport, I would also like to raise this channel issue, which has been mentioned here in two speeches. The Saimaa Canal is, of course, a very important channel connection for the entire Finnish state, but I would like to speak about this channelling of the Kymijoki river, which was raised by Mr Hoskonen there. After all, we now have a final decision without the Kimola Canal project, and I hope that the government will have an understanding of the additional funding that will be available in connection with the Kimola Canal. That's where the old bunch cranes are being refurbished. The fact that, in due course, the channelling of the Kymijoki river, as Mr Hoskonen estimates, will certainly be the future, but at least at the moment this Kimola Canal project is important to move forward, and I hope that the government will have a sympathetic understanding of the project.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u24	Madam President! Now that the new agency is being given a great deal of responsibility for the solutions and development of the canal issue, I can’t help reminding you that the Saimaa Canal is the Järvi-Suomen main vein for the world and from a very high northerly point of view export products are exported to the world and imported from the world and exported north to Finland and is therefore a very important channel for our exports and for life in general. The closing gates of the Saimaa Canal should be renewed. These reservoirs should be extended and will require state funding in the near future. If these activities, maintenance and development activities are not carried out there, there is a great risk that the importance of this corridor will be reduced, because the size of the equipment — I mean this fleet in the world — will increase, and new ships may no longer fit in the existing canals. It is therefore important that these development projects be taken into account in the future and implemented as well, so that this important waterway remains as important for Finland as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u25	Madam President! That is exactly what Mr Kopra said. We are already too short with these closures, and the fleet that is currently being transported on inland waterways is very old-fashioned. The strangest thing about this is that we have prepared plans in this country for the construction of new inland waterway ships, complete drawings — Finnish high-tech, travelling in summer and winter, no assistants are needed even in winter when travelling on inland waterways, because it breaks its own path, is able to load, load almost independently, practically Finnish high-tech and practically almost service-free. The maintenance that is being done is quickly being done, and the enormous transport capacity is increasing. This has been completely ignored. Ladies and gentlemen, the next time you go to a seminar in the forest industry for a party, listen to what the big forest industry bosses are complaining about today. Generally speaking, the first complaint is that we lose to the competitor countries in terms of transport costs. It is precisely when everything has been moved to rubber wheels that it has proved a thousand times this spring that because of the Celirium we will soon have large factories standing in our hands due to a shortage of raw materials. The costs are rising all the time as, for example, Sweden, which also carries on inland waterway and rail transport, is falling and they are passing us by in competition. Germany will do the same, Russia will do the same. There huge quantities are transported and the unit cost is really low. This is what the forest industry is crying about all the time. Consider, for example, a bio-power plant. A large ship can transport 10,000 cubic meters of chips at once. As truck loads, count 100 cubic metres per truck, how huge the capacity of one ship is, and all domestic technology. This is what I've been wondering. Madam President! I had the courage to bring this up because this is so annoying to me. We have the best inland waterway network in the world. In no other country in the world does there exist such an inland waterway as we do, nowhere, and here we are just building better roads. They're needed for car traffic. But what kind of aid could we not transfer to where this transport is profitable and, above all, environmentally friendly? It is the best and most environmentally friendly mode of transport in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u26	Does Minister Berner wish to respond? — — — — 5 minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u27	Madam Speaker! The increasing integration of transport and communications is precisely what Mr Planto has mentioned here and will bring about a significant change for us in transport services and markets. This reform of the agency aims to ensure that the services we provide are provided on a one-stop-shop basis, specifically with regard to digitalisation and licensing and regulatory procedures. At the same time, we will have more and more concerns about the fairway network in the future. We have an increasing debt to repair, our ability to take care of our development investments has clearly weakened, and we have a need for greater efficiency when we talk about owning our network. The purpose of the reform of the agency is to ensure, on the one hand, that we strengthen our maintenance, ownership and development of our network and, at the same time, that we are also strengthened by responding to the services of time. However, the reform of the agency should not be seen alone, but is accompanied by a change in the private road law, a change in the road law and a number of other things that support this big package. It is therefore important that these are taken forward at the same time. The reform of the agency does not in itself provide additional money, but will also significantly improve the efficiency of the operation and provide real-time information. The law on transport services also supports the keeping of registers as far as regulation is concerned. In the context of this reform of the Office, no limited liability company will be created as part of the reform of the Office and there will be no limited liability company within the agencies. This has not been done in great haste but has been done in two stages and has been done in cooperation with the staff. Perhaps that is why it has also been so united and united. The first stage has been carried out by the agencies themselves, which were launched in November 16 and only since then has the Ministry phase been launched, which has then responded to this proposal. This also makes it possible for us to take better care of the whole. Finland needs more routes and more funding models. This is one channel through which we can work more effectively. This alone is not the solution. We are reforming the Water Transport Act and we will bring it to Parliament in the autumn. In other words, water transport has not been forgotten, but is one part of this whole package, which is still being imported as part of this whole. With regard to the Kimola Canal, I can say that it is in the planning phase and the Finnish Transport Agency is strongly committed to it. Renewal of the Saimaa Canal closures is underway, and more development plans are currently under way. With regard to the digital infrastructure, which Mr Hoskonen has also mentioned here, there is now a strategy coming in the spring. Then we will also take forward spectrum solutions for 5G, which will also enable the industry to make additional investments in this very critical digital infrastructure. I would like to thank all the representatives for their points of view and for the debate. Thank you, too, for the reception of this motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u28	Mr President! From that channel project, we have quite a rough experience in Central Finland of the Keitele-Päijenne channel. At one time it was done and talked about how it will be wetted and needed by industry. Well, technically, the stick hasn't gone through it yet, and it must have been there for 30 years. That now, if the same thing happens to those channels, it is wasted money. Then there is the question of swimming wood, that the costs will be high when they are rolled into the water. They have to be picked up from there, and about 2 euros of a cube is just like this when it is picked up from the lake to pick up a car, where it will still have to be picked up when it is taken to the factory. So the cost is not really going to fall. At least this is how I learned in Central Finland. If it is different elsewhere in Finland, then it can be.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u29	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 6/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Mr Mölsä, the chairman of the committee, will present the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u30	Madam President! This is a Government proposal to the Parliament to amend the Act on production aid for electricity produced with renewable energy sources and Article 6 of the Act on compensation areas for wind power. The proposal proposes to amend the Act on aid for the production of electricity produced from renewable energy sources. The law would provide for a premium system based on a call for tender in which technological neutrality would promote investments in renewable energy power plants. At the same time, the feed-in tariff system would be closed for biogas plants and wood fuel plants. The proposal relates to and is intended to be discussed in the context of a supplement to the State's draft budget for 2018. Mr President! The proposed laws are intended to enter into force at the date specified by the Government Decree. However, the provision on the date for the application for approval of the feed-in tariff scheme for biogas power plants and wood fuel plants is intended to enter into force as soon as possible. The Government's proposal to amend the laws on production support for electricity produced from renewable energy sources and on compensation areas for wind power is linked to the broad package and objectives of energy and climate policy. Finland is guided, on the one hand, by the EU's common climate and energy policy objectives, on the other hand, by the national targets that became concrete in the energy and climate strategy adopted in November 2016. Exploiting the potential of renewable energy is one of the key issues for achieving long-term energy and climate objectives. Mr President! The present proposal is also linked to the measures required in its letter on Parliament's energy and climate strategy. Parliament's statements stated in detail the reform of support schemes for the production of electricity and heat based on renewable energy sources. In the statement of the Finnish Parliament in 2017 and in the Government Report 2016, the reform of the support schemes concerned in particular the following statements, in which the Parliament required that ‘the Council of State: 1. reform support schemes for renewable electricity and heat production so that the aid is geared from a cost-effectiveness perspective to the best forms of renewable energy production and that the competitive impact of subsidies and taxation is assessed and taken into account; 2. prepare the new renewable energy support referred to in the strategy based on competitive tendering and technological neutrality so that, in addition to wind, solar and CHP production, other possible new technologies may be involved in the tendering process if the aid is implemented; 3. ensure that material wood suitable for industrial use is primarily directed to high value products and not to energy production; 4. take measures, in particular, to obtain by-products, chewing and bark from the sawmill industry and to ensure a level playing field’. The Government's proposal has stated that the objectives of the reform have been the overall economic advantage and the cost-effectiveness of the premium system, which would be ensured by technologically neutral tenders. The preparation of the Government's proposal has been based on a broad comparison of the impact of different implementation options. The Government's proposal also states that Parliament's comments on the aid schemes in the above-mentioned letter have been taken into account in the preparation. Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has assessed the effectiveness and relevance of the present system in the light of the underlying objectives of energy and climate policy, in particular the above-mentioned statements, with particular emphasis on the aspects of cost-effectiveness, technological neutrality and the functioning of competition. Given the scope of the invitation to tender and the government's guidelines on the aid package for the disposal of coal during the committee procedure, the Economic Committee considers the support system proposed by the government to be justified and supports the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the Government's proposal with minor amendments. The report contains two objections to the proposed amendment of the law, to the rejection of proposals and to the proposals for statements. These came from the Finns, a rejection proposal, and the other is a joint rejection proposal by the left and the Greens. Finally, the SDP supported this report unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u31	Mr President! To stop climate change in time requires a rapid energy transition, perhaps faster than we thought, because climate change is moving faster than we thought a few years ago. We need to move towards renewable and decentralised energy production, and our entire energy system needs to be transformed into intelligent and energy efficient. Technology is now developing rapidly, but the scale and urgency of change require instruments to support and accelerate change. This Government proposal provides for new legislation allowing production aid based on a technological neutral tender for renewable energy. The proposal is part of the implementation of the climate and energy strategy. The system is needed as a transitional solution, as renewable investment is not yet viable at these energy prices and low emission allowances prices and is unlikely to start without incentives. Support schemes cannot be a permanent solution, but they will be needed as long as the price of allowances and pollution is not high enough. Carbon pricing through emission trading or taxation would automatically make emission-free production profitable if prices and systems only worked. Mr President! This proposal has been stuck in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for a long time because of the internal disagreement of the government. Finally, the proposal moved on with the change that the competition for renewable energy will be reduced on the pretext of abandoning coal. I do not see any justification for this. Coal must be abandoned as soon as possible, but at the same time transitional support is also needed to start renewable energy investments. These are not mutually exclusive needs; both are aimed at a renewable and emission-free energy system. The size of the tender must therefore be maintained in the original 2 terawatt hours, accompanied by a statement at second reading. The committee's expert hearings revealed no justification for how the government has ended up with a reduction of just 0.6 terawatt-hours in renewable support. It is impossible to estimate the amount of energy equivalent to the EUR 90 million disposal package for coal in advance, as the cost of aid through auctions of a sliding and fixed premium is not known. If renewable projects are already very profitable, the price is close to zero, but the amount cannot be known in advance. The EUR 90 million incentive package for the abandonment of coal could be financed, for example, by reducing subsidies for fossil energy that are harmful to the environment. This would help reduce emissions and support environmentally friendly restructuring through it. Cutting corporate subsidies that are harmful to the environment has been known to be difficult, but it is necessary if we are to combat climate change effectively. It must be remembered that fossil energy is currently being supported much more than renewable energy. Mr President! Renewable energy still needs transitional support, even though the cost of producing renewable energy has collapsed in recent years and the old feed-in tariff has become clearly overcompensating. It should be noted that this new competitive system is significantly different and much cheaper than the old and expensive feed-in tariff. However, support for the transition phase is needed because renewable energy projects do not yet start when emissions trading does not work and energy prices are low. Technology-neutral competition is the solution for the transition period, which also ensures the maintenance of project competence. We therefore support the basic solutions of the government proposal and the draft law with minor changes. So we are not proposing rejection, as the President-in-Office has just said, but we are proposing a change in the section and statements. Mr President! As far as wood chips are concerned, it is good that the use of wood and fibrewood as energy is excluded from production aid. Material wood should not be burned as energy but used for high value added products. According to the Government's proposal, at least 85% of the fuel in a wood fuel or biogas plant must be renewable. Consequently, 15 % of the fuel may be non-renewable. The government originally suggested that 90% of the fuel should be renewable but decreased by one per cent after the consultation. I will therefore propose, at a point-by-point reading, that the percentage should be returned to 90 in order to make the aid genuinely renewable. Mr President! During the course of the debate, criticisms have been made that competitive tendering is not genuinely technological neutral. Biogas, wood fuel, solar, wind and wave power plants can participate in the competition. So it is not wind power aid. Hydropower is limited out on the grounds that small hydropower has its own potential for support and there is no competition and no basis for aid in large hydro power. This means that renewables can participate widely in the competition, but the winners of the tender are probably wind power and wood biomass plants, which are the most competitive renewable energy sources, i.e. the cheapest capacity, and the cheapest capacity is now being competitive and sought. It is in the interest of the central government that the most cost-effective projects succeed in this competitive process. Then the price for central government finances will also be as low as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u32	Madam President! We are now dealing with the proposal to support the production of electricity from renewable energy sources. As Mr Sarkkinen said here, under all circumstances, these are intermediate solutions in the long run. Last year, EUR 226 million was paid for electricity supply tariffs. The majority of this, EUR 196 million, I think, went to wind power plants and EUR 28 million into forest chips. To some extent, support has been considered expensive and too wind-oriented. However, the problem is not with wind power itself, but with the fact that renewable energy sources, the sun and the like have not been sufficiently competitive in these projects. The new system is therefore based on an auction aimed at treating different forms of energy more equitably. Hydropower is outside of this support and was a deliberate act for many reasons, not least because EU regulations may also come up against it. At the various stages of the preparatory work, consideration was also given to reconsidering and reconsidering the entire aid scheme. But this was not the case this time. Of course, the cost of the aid is difficult to estimate in advance, but according to the estimates of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, according to the expert estimates that have been heard, the fork is approximately EUR 120 to EUR 360 million for 12 years, not annually. On many occasions, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy wanted to emphasise and also to emphasise the decarbonisation of CHP plants. In other words, some EUR 90 million of the aid will be earmarked for aid to encourage the phasing out of coal on an accelerated schedule. In this respect, it is good that the incentive package adequately emphasises the potential of new technologies that replace coal in the midst of energy transformation. More generally, the Committee stressed that the focus of aid should shift from production aid to new, innovative technological solutions in the future. A paragraph was added to the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy at the initiative of the members of the SDP’s Economic Committee, which reads as follows: ‘The Committee considers it important to extend the incentive to energy plants other than existing coal, which develop and use coal-replaceable and emission-reducing technologies. “ This would increase the importance and use of this support. With these additions, as the chairman of the committee rightly said here, the Group of the SDP's Economic Committee could very well agree with this committee's report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u33	Madam President! This new form of support for renewable energy is very important for the city centre. It is presented by our minister, and we have, of course, been a little annoyed by the fact that it has stuck in that Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, that we can finally have it in this Chamber, and thank you for finally having it here. It is, of course, a pity that, as a whole, the marginal conditions of the economy certainly did not allow it to exceed the total number of terawatts, but the original 2 terawatts had to be tolerated. Well, after the political negotiations, even during the committee period, a section was taken up on coal installations that would replace their own activities with renewable energies. Of course, we must remember that a large proportion of Finland's energy plants have long since moved away from polluting fuels such as coal, but unfortunately our largest cities continue to rely on coal, and we now want to offer them a chance and encourage them, in fact force them to give up coal. It is also a matter of international importance to Finland that the largest cities will finally give up the use of coal. As far as this legislative package is concerned, some criticism has been raised, for example, by the neutrality of technology, which is quite surprising because, at an earlier stage, a very large majority of Parliament felt that it should be put to the competition of a technological neutrality. And when you do that technologically neutral, you have to understand that those who already have efficiency and productivity at best are, of course, doing well in that competition. If you criticise this law of support for wind power, it will be left behind. It would have been worth criticising energy and climate strategies and other policies in the past when a decision has been made to act technologically neutral. If you want to do something else, the whole system base should be built in a different way and then competitive in baskets or in any way, but then it would require a completely different kind of tampering. In my opinion, it is very important that this law is now in force and will be dealt with. Many investments in renewable energy have been waiting for this, they have been waiting for this unfortunate delay. I am also very pleased that the Social Democrats have come along with this report. However, I believe that the common objective of this Chamber is that Finland should have as much renewable energy as possible. We are very ambitious in it, we have a lot of good things in it. I also think it is very important for our industry to be able to think extensively about new forms of renewable energy innovation and development. And what we also have, for example, in the steel industry, in the mining industry, is that they are very interesting issues. Hopefully this will also help them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u34	Madam President! This is a good report. I know there is a huge amount of pressure involved. The big industry and the big companies would, of course, be happy to see that any support policy would support their business and then it would be out of the ordinary. It's a normal economic activity in society, it's not worth being scared of. But what I am a little sad about is that, although the report itself is good, we ourselves are driving our energy policies in a number of small ways in the direction of gradually weakening the operating conditions of CHP power, combined electricity and heat production. Of course it is very much affected by this international energy price. We always operate in electricity prices and other matters on the international market. That is something we must take into account. But Finland must keep its own policy today, and even in the coming years the parliaments, worry that this country will remain strong with this common wisdom of electricity and heat production in the same common plants, because it will achieve that enormous benefit. This efficiency of plants is well above 90 per cent. For example, all heat will be recovered to heat up urban areas or for industrial use, and then electricity will be used by all of us through the electricity network of society. And here is the brilliant idea when we still have the cold winters: it works extremely well to adjust the energy needs of this society when it is very cold and it needs a lot of heat, and at the same time the CHP plant produces the much-needed electricity that always goes best when it is cold. That's when you always use a lot of electricity. These things go hand in hand. Less than two and a half years ago in Finland in January there was a situation where we had high electricity consumption when it was cold, and the economy also worked reasonably well, and we were saved only by the fact that electricity was available on the market at the time, available from our neighbours so that the electricity grid did not collapse. It saved our Finland. With this in mind, it would now be worth Finland catching up with itself and making sure that there is enough electricity and heat production in this country, which is based specifically on CHP technology, and then putting these power plants, power plants, all the power plants in order, and, if necessary, building even more, that we are self-sufficient in energy production. A country that is not self-sufficient in energy, electricity production is not going to have a good future, because if we want to make a living and produce good services and good products for the world market, it knows without mercy that there must be a very efficient and clean generation of electricity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u35	Mr President! The Finns are in favour of clean energy and are in favour of a fair climate policy. For example, the requirement that, when only 6.7% of electricity is produced with coal, we should give it up altogether only increases the cost of living for a low-paid person. And given that we need to ensure that the jobs in industry in particular remain in Finland and be competitive in it, because otherwise they will move away and emissions will only increase globally. If we add all our emissions together as far as Finland is concerned, it is only 13 per mil, so we should be very sensible. The Finns of Peru are proposing that this law be rejected. The Finns of Finland stress that it would be more important to invest in product development and research funding and investment subsidies than support for the production of renewable energy sources. Or travel. We have extremely fresh air in Finland, which will be admired from all over Germany — not to mention China. Support for renewable energy, about EUR 300 million, is a huge sum, and this is practically wind power aid number two. Most of this support will go to wind power. However, the proposal is not technologically neutral, although it has been argued otherwise. It excludes, for example, hydropower and, in practice, plants producing electricity and heat. In addition, the Finns of Peru stress that noise, flash and other disadvantages associated with the construction of wind power should have been investigated, but they have not been investigated at all in this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u36	Madam President! New business support. I cannot say personally that I am particularly pleased that this is the chosen path to combat climate change, but this is better than doing nothing. We will end up with these subsidies. It should be noted that this aid fulfils the criteria for good aid by being fixed-term, has a clear social basis and is market-based and competitive. Nevertheless, support for renewables is certainly not the most cost-effective way to combat climate change. But this is where we end up, because causing damage is still far too cheap. In other words, as long as a tonne of carbon dioxide contaminated is so cheap, there will then be no conditions for renewable energy once again on a market-based basis. If we look at this amount of aid too, if we estimate it to be 20 million a year at the cost of yesterday's allowance, money could eliminate some 100,000 Finnish emissions from the emission allowance market every year. The real problem with this support for renewable energy is that because it is an emissions trading scheme, these allowances will not be reduced and if these allowances are not used in Finland, they will be used elsewhere. In other words, this support in this form does not currently reduce emissions, but it is still necessary because it allows technology to move forward and because it is now sensible for companies to invest in it, hopefully its production costs will fall to such a degree that it will set off on market terms one day. But once again, having said this, we have the wrong path. We should not support it; we are not talking about having insufficient renewable energy. Our real problem is that we are producing too much climate emissions. We are producing too much climate emissions because the production of emissions is too cheap, not only because it is too cheap on market terms, but we even support it. And now we have this coal-fired decommissioning aid to be presented in the autumn. Then where are we going to get those resources? Instead of reducing subsidies for fossil fuel, by using the savings that have been made there to reduce carbon combustion, so no, that will also be removed from the only thing that is thus slowing down climate change over a long period of time. I really hope that in the future we will not go down this path when we try to combat climate change, but will do what is right. Let us have those who cause damage, clean up their own tracks, repair the damage they cause, that is, the cost there when the damage is done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u37	Mr President! Mr Huhtasaari spoke well earlier, and I support his line. Unfortunately, this government proposal is so poor that it cannot be helped dry even with draft amendments to the articles, and the protest of the Left Alliance and the Greens would make this even worse. Now those corporate subsidies are good enough for the Greens when populism is being done elsewhere. Business subsidies are good for the Greens when they fit in with green ideology. The problem with this proposal would be an even greater drop for taxpayers, whereas, on the contrary, energy should be cheaper. These issues should be pragmatic and not so ideological. Support for wind power in this proposal is still not enough and the proposal is not technologically neutral. So I hope that Parliament will reject the proposal when the time comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u38	Mr President! I believe that the technological neutrality of energy subsidies is a truly respectable objective. That is why I regard this proposal as such a failure, because this objective has not been achieved. There is no hydropower involved, as Mr Huhtasaari mentioned earlier. Of course, this visible fact is that wind power fanatics in practice continue to support wind power tariffs and wind power in this way. The building of wind power really disturbs many people in rural areas because it is being built too close to housing. This is an issue in which we would have liked the government to intervene, but this is obviously not the kind of thing that the wind-promoting government would have thought of. However, the point I want to make in this debate is that since the trend is now to pursue CO2 neutrality and that is the red thread here, I wonder why nuclear power is not being taken into account in our system. When it is said that this is so market-oriented and so market-neutral and so it is not it, it is actually, as Mrs Hoskonen rightly pointed out earlier, that nuclear power would also be a rather important energy for us in these energy debates. Nuclear power is probably our best source of clean energy. Nuclear power should therefore be involved in this. Nuclear power is the most effective way of reducing CO2 emissions, especially in the first instance, when seeking to achieve this CO2 neutrality. Then, of course, comes the second stage. Here, when I tell you this, it is easy to misunderstand — when the second stage comes in which technological progress is likely to lead to the transition to new forms of energy — but now that we are living, in a way, in the first phase, nuclear energy is what we should focus on. Replacing nuclear power is not really possible as with fossil fuels. After all, we have the most tragic example of this in Germany, where this green policy was unleashed and the consequences were horrendous, because the abandonment of nuclear power in Germany led to an increase in the use of fossil fuels. There is also one example of this that has been noted in the government proposal, but it has not been taken into account in more detail. The British aid scheme also includes nuclear power. I am ashamed that the Finnish Government did not include nuclear power as it did in the UK.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u39	Madam President! As far as wind power is concerned, I think it is completely absurd, to support it as a whole, because we have the greatest need for electricity in the winter: then it will be cold and very calm, the wind turbines will produce nothing at all. On the contrary, they will have to be heated then, so they will have to supply electricity. So this will not save anything, it will not save the earth or Finland, and, on the contrary, security of supply will be weakened by these systems. Then there is the fact that it usually uses hydropower or purchasing power, perhaps even nuclear power, as a control force. Unfortunately, when that point of entry is changed, the colonies are rising in this way all the time, and it will be paid by the citizens. If this money, which is being wasted on supporting wind power, were spent on, for example, hydropower, the renewal of turbines, it would yield many times more revenue. But those power plants and dams are there, they won't be dismantled. There's one place on Viitasaari, and it's been turned into a museum. It doesn't bring anything to anyone, pretty place, but if that technology is renewed there, then it's going to be electricity and well-being for us. Let's stop talking like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u40	Madam President! It has also been said here in previous speeches and I myself said that, in the past, Finland's common climate and energy policy objectives, as well as its national energy and climate strategy and also the Paris Agreement, have been adopted almost unanimously in this Chamber. Nevertheless, the rejection motion opposes, among other things, the most favourable form of electricity generation, i.e. wind power. This is how the Finns see it, that electricity must be produced with a more expensive option. In protest, the Greens and the Left are opposed to the decoding of coal. It has not yet been clear to me what I have been in this Parliament, what is the right form of energy for green, whether it is coal — I will not take any further position. But remember one important thing: the price of energy is a political decision now and always in the future. That is why this technologically neutral competition seeks equal treatment and not just talk about wind power, as has been pointed out in many speeches. I agree with you on that. Tavio also pointed out that hydropower is the purest energy and then comes nuclear power, but it is not, of course, in this competitive system. Hydropower is closed because it will take at least ten years before a leak pool is created, and nuclear power is being built, so that different systems will then have to exist, and then solar and wind turbines and so on will come. And Mr Hakkarainen also said that when it was necessary for that wind power, solar power in January, it would unfortunately not be found, but it would be found in the summer, and then it would be necessary to shut down nuclear power stations or hydroelectric power stations. This is one of those negative ideas, but it's the whole thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u41	Mr President! I'll answer to Mr. Mölsä. You might want to read that in our objection, and then there will be no wrong things said about what it says. So we are not opposed to the dismantling of coal, but we are suggesting that if such a package is needed to support the accelerated dismantling of coal, it would be financed other than by reducing this competition, for example by reducing fossil energy subsidies, so that it would also have a positive emission, environmental and climate impact. In fact, our objection is based on our support for the original government proposal. The Government's original proposal was 2 terawatt hours, and the government's original proposal also contained this clause for renewables, that it must be 90 per cent and not 85 per cent. This was in the government's presentation for the consultation at the time. In other words, we fully support the government's original proposal, and this criticism is directed at these changes that have taken place along the way. We propose that this package of decarbonisation, if necessary, should be taken from fossil energy, not from renewable energy. As such, the faster the coal down the drive, the better, but the question is how it will then be financed if this kind of package is customized.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u42	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Mölsä, is so serious that there is no reason to slander the matter. Our problem is that climate change is real. Climate change is due to the fact that we are producing too much climate emissions. There are too many of them because it is allowed, because it is so cheap, because those who do harm to others do not have to pay for it. We have to act and we have to drive it down. Those alternative forms of energy production are those that do not generate climate emissions for us. So much in relation to the support for the accelerated shutdown of coal power coming to the debate this autumn — once again this as my personal opinion — that it is difficult for me to understand it. It is justified to drive down activities that cause damage to others where their costs are high. Many operators, many cities for example, have already stopped burning coal. It is difficult for me to understand that those who have done it longer will still be paid for having done it longer so that they can stop it at that point. I think we as legislators have the right to say that this kind of activity must be stopped because we know that it is harmful to the climate. When we talk about climate change, it should be mentioned once again that if climate change moves in this way, the sustainability of civilisation as a whole will be threatened, because if change is rapid, surprising, huge masses of people are on the move, then our social order will not be maintained. At that point, we are facing quite different challenges. The aim of the Greens, and certainly of all those who are dedicated to it, is to bring emissions down, and that requires different options. We must take this matter seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u43	Mr President! My only objection to Mr Mölsä is that the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which you yourself approved, states that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy regrets that the government's proposal has dealt very narrowly with the importance of hydropower and the conditions for including hydropower in the system. This gives a rather clamoured impression, namely that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy itself has not been very satisfied with this government proposal. In that sense, as you admitted, the good qualities of hydropower, I am surprised that you have not dared to oppose your government's ministers. But on the other hand, when you look at this activity of yours, it does not surprise me directly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u44	Mr President! For Mr Vartia and for the rest of the Greens, the question is that if you are so much against those CO2 emissions and other climate emissions, why are you at the same time against nuclear power, even so much so that the Greens have walked out of the government because of the additional construction of nuclear power? I think this is where we come in with the ideology that the energy forms are good enough for those who like them. Is this where decisions are made on the basis of ideologies or the facts? Which one's it going to be?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u45	Madam President! Greens are in favour of all climate-friendly and environmentally friendly energy production. We want both of these conditions to be fulfilled at the same time. As far as nuclear power is concerned, Mr Mäkelä and all other Finns in Finland should remember that entire life cycle of production, starting with uranium mining, ending with the final disposal of nuclear waste. Between that, both within Finland and outside Finland’s borders, there are environmental risks that we cannot accept, and therefore the production of nuclear energy, taking into account the whole life cycle, is not a sustainable, environmentally friendly solution. Then we have various nuclear projects in Finland. There are even those who are even less acceptable than usual, such as the Fennovoima project in the Hanhikivi peninsula of Pyhäjoki, where these environmental aspects are, in many respects, so scandalous that it may not be enough to bring them all up for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u46	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 5. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 2/2018 vp, the agreement and the common interpretative instrument contained therein shall be decided at the sole reading, in so far as they fall within the competence of Finland and then at second reading on the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u47	Madam President! Trade agreements should contribute to the well-being of people and the environment. However, there is reason to fear that the CETA agreement would not make either of these two. The Parliamentary Committee has heard very critical assessments of the investment court system in CETA, which reduces the scope of national democracy and gives more power to multinationals. No matter how the government claims otherwise, the agreement does not succeed in guaranteeing the right to regulate states in order to promote, for example, environmental protection, food safety or labour rights. Despite the improvements, CETA repeats the mistake of trading and investment agreements: where the articles on investor rights are binding and sanctioned, the sections on the well-being of people and the environment are placed in a so-called "sustainable development" chapter, which rests solely on good hope. At best, a possible, albeit uncertain, increase in the rate of economic growth in Europe would be small: in the long term, we are talking about an increase of perhaps 0.02% in GDP. And because of this petty addition, you are now prepared to move everything away from central public authority. Mr President! As a former head of confidence and ay, it is also easy for me to understand the numerous European trade unions that have strongly criticised the CETA agreement. Trade agreements such as CETA always benefit some but weaken the position of others accordingly. Typically, they increase income disparities, benefit more capital holders than employees, and shift jobs, especially for low-skilled people, from one country to another. CETA’s impact assessments have shown that it would both redistribute assets to capital holders and increase the pay gap between highly and low-skilled workers. So social inequality would increase. The impact is that a small number of decent jobs would be created under the agreement. The European Parliament's Committee on Employment and Social Affairs therefore recommended that CETA should not be approved for these reasons — that is, the Committee on Social Affairs pointed out that CETA should not be approved for these reasons. The Left Alliance agrees. The potential benefits of CETA are disproportionate to the significant risks and threats contained therein. Mr President! I object to the rejection of the agreement and of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u48	Mr President! The promotion of trade between the EU and Canada and the removal of barriers to trade are positive in themselves, but the CETA Agreement raises significant problems, in particular due to the investment protection it entails. Investment protection as such is a separate part of this trade agreement and a trade agreement could very well be concluded without investment protection. It is therefore amazing that, although there are significant problems with this investment protection, it is still wanted to be trampled through in this context and to take great risks for relatively small benefits. Mr President! The new version of the permanent investment court contained in the agreement is more transparent and better than the previous version of the arbitral tribunal, but the key problems relating to investment protection have not been resolved. CETA bypasses national courts and gives foreign investors rights that domestic investors or citizens do not have. A Canadian investor is given the right to bring an action before an investment court against an EU Member State if it considers that the State’s activities have violated its rights, but the domestic investor has no equivalent possibility. Nor can governments, citizens or other actors challenge companies to an investment judgment in the event of a breach of contract or abuse. The EU and Canada are stable jurisdictions. There is no sustainable justification for creating a judicial system for foreign investors that goes beyond national law. At the very least, it should be the case that the investment court will only take the case after the case has been examined at all national courts and that the court should have equal access to the various players. Mr President! Even if the agreement would technically allow, for example, stricter environmental and health protection provisions, the system actually proposed threatens to reduce democratic decision-making power. The risk of costly and lengthy judicial processes can affect national or regional decision-making when decision-makers and civil servants have to take into account the interests of Canadian investors. The principle of fair treatment contained in the agreement has remained so vague that it can also allow interference in environmental or otherwise in the public interest. The North American NAFTA agreement, for example, contains the corresponding entries in the principle of equal treatment and has been interpreted as reducing the effective environmental regulation, and the same threat is faced with the CETA agreement, unfortunately. Even if the actions are not successful, there is already a threat to costly and difficult judicial processes that the area of democratic decision-making can be reduced in practice. The threat of a reduction in regulatory power is not entirely hypothetical, as it has been seen in many countries that, for example, tobacco and mining companies are bringing actions against countries regulating industries under investment agreements, and this can have a significant impact on Finland, where there is a large number of mining industries. For example, if we want to tighten up the Mining Act in the future with regard to environmental regulations, we may be faced with a situation where this will then be tested by Canadian mining companies which will bring an action against Finland. And even if the action does not succeed, it in itself creates costs and can thus also prevent new regulation. In fact, I would like to ask the question that, if there are no concerns about a reduction in regulatory powers, why has the Committee on Foreign Affairs stated in its statement that the Mining Act should be amended as a matter of urgency before CETA's investor protection becomes effective? I think it confirms this view that there is a risk of a reduction in the power of regulation and that there is a real risk. Mr President! CETA includes a specific instrument for interpreting to remove concerns in relation to national regulatory law. The interpretation instrument is welcome, but it is unclear what its binding nature in relation to the contract itself will ultimately be and how it will be interpreted by the investment court. Furthermore, the interpretation instrument does not remove the possibility for a company to bring actions and thus, at least indirectly, influence public authority. Overall, CETA should strike a better balance between business rights and obligations. It is a problem that the rights of companies and investors are binding regulation, but obligations in areas such as the environment and the protection of workers are included in so-called "sustainable development" sections, which do not involve sanctions, unlike those imposed on the state. In other words, responsibilities and obligations and rights are unbalanced. Mr President! CETA promotes trade and economic relations between regions and can thus benefit businesses and the economy of the regions. Of course, the benefits are unevenly distributed, Canada is the bigger winner here, and the benefits within the EU are also unevenly distributed. Above all, however, it should be borne in mind that the economic benefits of CETA could also be achieved through a more sustainable and democratic package of agreements if the problems relating to investor protection and the binding nature of the contractual obligations of sustainable development were resolved. In particular, in the short term, the economic impact of the agreement cannot be regarded as so important that there is no time and justification for addressing the fundamental problems of democracy and sustainable development.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u49	Mr President! Free trade is a good thing, but supranational jurisdiction and the right of foreign mining and other companies to exploit Finnish ore resources in the case of mining companies are bad things. In fact, what is so fundamentally wrong with this CETA agreement that you cannot take or leave such a package, it must be left behind. Fortunately, Trump's rise to power in the United States has already frozen the TTIP. Now we are facing this agreement. These problems have been identified both in the relevant public debate and also in the committee report and in the opinions of a number of committees. It must be wondered, though, that, although the problems are known, nothing is going to be done about them except to establish their existence. No clause on the urgent preparation of mining legislation will save this agreement. At least I do not have the confidence that the government will act at all so that the mining legislation will be tightened up once it has not been tightened up to date. However, the fact is that without this agreement, other arrangements are possible, so we should not go along with this under bad conditions. There will be a new humility in the negotiations when it is said that this has been repeated. I therefore support the motion for a rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u50	Madam President! Free trade is a good thing, but it is not a threat to human health or environmental protection, for example. The main problem with CETA is the investment protection of the agreement, which allows foreign investors to export new national laws, decisions or court rulings to a supranational dispute settlement body for assessment. The procedure has been improved along the way, but the basic problems remain and have not been sufficiently addressed. It's expensive and one-sided. The threat of such legal acts can already act as a brake on the development of laws, such as those protecting the environment and workers. CETA is primarily effective in safeguarding investor rights. On the other hand, the promotion of sustainable development, health and safety at work and environmental protection remains at the level of the declaration. These should be balanced. Mr President! I would like to take an example of the problem of investment protection, which is central to the mining industry: It is true that now that Parliament has received a proposal from this government to approve the CETA agreement, it would at the same time take so much power away from the Finnish administrative authorities, courts and parliament that anything can happen, especially in Northern Finland. Martti Koskenniemi, Professor of International Law at the University of Helsinki, says that this agreement allows a foreign investor to exert pressure on Finnish authorities and legislators. In concrete terms, the contract is expected to be visible in mining operations. For example, there are several large mining companies in Canada that are interested in operating in Finland and which are already operating in Finland. Today, for example, First Quantum Minerals from Canada operates at the Pyhäsalmi mine in northern Ostrobothnia and previously also owned the Kevitsa mine in Sodankylä. In Kittilä, the mine is also owned by Agnico Eagle, a Canadian. In Nivala, on the other hand, the mining of Belvedere Mining, a Canadian company in northern Ostrobothnia, has gone bankrupt and the environmental problems in the region have been borne by taxpayers. The latest and perhaps most scandalous example of this is the multinational Anglo American mining company, which would like to open a mine in the Viiankiava Natura site — the copper-nickel mine’s Natura site. It's like this. The investment protection mechanism would allow these companies to claim compensation if, for example, the target country changes its legislation to a disadvantage for investors. Such a change could be, for example, the tightening of environmental legislation or, for example, the introduction of a mining tax by the Greens. The Finnish Mining Act has been regarded as an internationally compared leprechaun, and the CETA agreement would allow Canadian mining companies to prevent changes in mining legislation for up to 20 years at worst. According to the investment protection agreement, the maximum notice period is 20 years. Indeed, in order to prevent the domination of Canadian mining companies, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Parliament has proposed that a tightening of the mining law should be introduced during this parliamentary term before the CETA agreement enters into force. It is noteworthy that in the Committee on Foreign Affairs this statement was proposed by all the members of the committee, including the centre and the assembly. It has even been estimated that this is probably the strictest statement that a miner has ever been said in this Parliament. However, there is less than a year left in the electoral period. Looks like it's going to be a really fast schedule. Mr President! On these grounds, among other things, I support Mr Myllykoski's proposal to reject the government's proposal and, therefore, this economic and trade agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u51	Mr President! Unfortunately, the parliamentary debate on this issue is a complete joke — a complete joke. Finland is once again, as a model student of the EU, accepting what is being given from the EU. This is an indication of Finland's complete submission to the will of the European Union. I have two reasons for this. Firstly, the Committee on Legal Affairs, of which I am a Member, has been very unanimous in practical terms in its efforts to prevent the creation of this investment court from the beginning, for years, in a number of opinions. The second is that the European Union included these provisions on this judicial system in this agreement, without any Member State of the European Union having any practical opportunity to influence it. It has not been possible to influence that content, and this has had to be noted. After all, this hearing is a complete joke. What has come up in this debate, which makes this clearly difficult for the people, is the rise in image policy by using the word 'free trade'. ‘Freetrade’ is theword which refers,in principle,to a positive Now, however, this proposal shows that free trade seems to be a very relative concept. This is where Finland is sold cheaply, and it is very sad to see this empty sitting room when such an important matter is dealt with and such a great hoax is being dealt with. Equally sad is the fact that the representatives of the government parties have not even received any counter-arguments on the issues that have been raised here. The problem that has already been raised quite well in previous speeches is that the pressure and pressure exerted by large companies vis-à-vis the countries is increasing excessively. Examples of such agreements have already been seen. It is true that Canadian mining companies, for example, are sure to have their position in Finland as a result of this. It is very problematic to make such major international commitments, because these may result in the legal changes that we will need in the future, changes in the law of national interest, being prevented in advance, and then we will lose our sovereignty. We are already losing our sovereignty when we move the judicial system, which is perhaps the most visible loss of sovereignty here. This is a huge motion of censure on the Finnish courts. On these grounds, I too am in favour of rejecting this bill and the agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u52	Mr President! This proposal proposes that Parliament adopt a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union and its Member States, i.e. the so-called CETA Agreement and the law on the enforcement of provisions falling within the scope of the law. As Mr Tavio has just pointed out in his very good speech, the Finns of Peru support the dismantling of barriers to trade and free trade, but Finland's national interest is something that we must always take into account first. However, based on the estimates made, the impact of CETA on GDP would be very marginal. On the other hand, the economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union and its Member States, if it is adopted here in Parliament in the forthcoming vote, is taking significant decision-making power outside our borders through arbitration. After all, a serious and long debate on this subject took place on Wednesday last week at first reading, and we have already made these points very clear at the time. Mr President! As has been stated in the expert opinions, the creation of an investment court under the CETA agreement would now be relegating Finland's significant legal decision-making powers and, therefore, many of the advantages of the agreement in themselves will be overshadowed by the risks posed by the transfer of power. Taking the decision-making power on investment disputes to the international procedure would significantly reduce the powers of the Finnish Parliament and also of the Finnish authorities in particular. We believe that a much better solution would be if the parties simply expressed their confidence in the ability of their courts to resolve investment conflicts and, in a particular situation, the States could agree that the dispute would be resolved through traditional interstate arbitration. Mr President! Internationally, many countries have very stingy experiences of being sued by large multinationals in a supranational court. This proposal would only increase the influence of the private sector in disputes and would place the States that are parties to the agreement in a much weaker position. Mr President! This disregard for our domestic legal system is not in the national interest of Finland, and therefore the Finns of Finland cannot accept the proposed CETA agreement and the related bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u53	Madam President! Free trade must not mean free money. But there is one thing to remember in this debate: the fact that we here in Finland have very much wanted national mining companies to be created, but unfortunately there has not been enough capital in this country to give birth to them here. It has been clear that a sector which is investment-intensive — i.e. a terrible demand for capital, so that it can even be examined whether it is worthwhile to go into mining — is going to cost tens of millions of euros. So here, however, I would like to bring about a sustainable and well-managed extractive industry, even if it comes from Canada, for example, that brings employment and well-being to this Finnish society. The most important thing would be to note that if, and hopefully, we go to reform the mining law, then there should be these environmental issues at the forefront. In other words, the industry should be required to take out insurance when opening a new mine, so that environmental damage is not borne by the Finnish state. The worst example is the Nivala mine, where after the acquisitions the operations were carried out, and all the environmental damage was then borne by the Finnish State. It is quite clear that the mining company will not pay taxes for years when the investment costs have been so expensive. I do not know what would happen with this free trade agreement, but at the moment the Canadian mining company, according to my own understanding and knowledge, must be located in Finland, where the tax will be paid here for the result coming to Finland. Unfortunately, because there is no corresponding legislation in Sweden, money is being transferred from Finland to a Swedish subsidiary because we can transfer from Sweden here to Sweden and then transfer from Sweden to Canada, we can make transfers. This plug should be prevented so that we can speak more courageously about the fact that the extractive industry, although it is foreign-owned, is producing well-being in this country. Environmental issues, taxation and the fact that we are currently talking about copper and nickel... I would like to remind you that the Finnish downstream industry in this country — in Harjavalta and so on — produces well-being in those regions and is an extension of mining. The legislation before us has legal certainty that must be kept in national hands.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u54	Madam President! I agree, as many speakers have said here, that of course we should try to break down barriers to trade and trade should take place and that is a good thing for Finland, but in this debate the use of Finnish national property and natural resources has risen very strongly. It is the case that if, for example, there is damage through mining legislation and mining, they are permanent damage, but the cause of the damage may put the whistles in the bag and return to its own country in peaceful nature and then the damage remains here for us to pay and also to suffer in many ways. In March, I asked Minister Tiilikainen a question about the situation that was in 2015. This came up in an interview with the Finnish Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of the Environment, Hannele Pokka, a year ago, in which he reminded me that the Canadian mining company Belvedere Mining went bankrupt in Nivala and we taxpayers were then paid several million euros. This is because even if there is such a liability system, then these funds for combating environmental damage cannot be used in a bankruptcy situation. This became very expensive for Finland. The Minister then told me in March that there was going to be an increase in the powers of the Environmental Protection Act and a clarification of environmental responsibilities in the event of bankruptcy, but these legislative projects are still under preparation, and the Minister estimates that this bankruptcy case will come either in this autumn of 2018 or in the spring. As has also been said in this previous speech, investment protection means precisely that if someone is now investing here and we have a certain kind of legislation, he may be able to count on it not to change. If we now have unfinished legal projects to secure our own national property, this could be a problem for us. Yes, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Finns Party, this issue and these issues relating to environmental damage must be updated before we can approve this CETA agreement. On these grounds, the Finns of Peru support the rejection of the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u55	Madam President! As the Committee on Foreign Affairs states in its report, this agreement is, of course, good for Finland in the sense that it is an agreement between the European Union and Canada, but it has gone through quite a tight sieve. For example, this fear of the fact that many people have been afraid of these arbitrations in various international trade disputes between the parties, but here we are going to have a permanent judicial system that still has the opportunity to appeal. So we've moved on. The fact that Finland is a country dependent on foreign trade also deserves to be borne in mind. Unfortunately, if we do not have foreign trade, we will not be able to manage by washing each other's shirts, but, yes, foreign trade must work and it must be done in ports if we are to improve our standard of living and pay our debts. When we trade with Canada, for example, it also opens up huge opportunities for us in the future. As we know, Canada is a country with huge natural resources. It is visible in the mining industry, the metal industry, among other things. Then there are huge reserves of wood, and huge forest areas are available there. Finland has a lot of forest expertise and modern forest expertise in the production of energy and liquid fuels, for example, or in the production of new materials in different forms. That is what Finland is developing all the time. We have already had some of these piercings in the area where we have created new materials, among other things, to replace plastic. I think it is quite important that we do not go everywhere to see the gruesome bogeymans, when this agreement has also been carefully reviewed in Finland by various parliamentary committees, such as the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Economic Committee and so on, and then the European Union has also been very careful and has not seen any greater fears. Of course, every agreement always carries its small risks, that is clear, but we will not live with it if we fear every bogeyman: there will soon be hunger. Finally, Mr President, when we talk about mining and that is what we are complaining about here, that when we have not achieved Finnish mining, it is our own fault. We should act coldly, as Sweden, for example, has done. All major national wealth ores found in Finland should be directed to Finnish companies by determined national measures, set up a state mining company, as LKAB in Sweden is. Why are we here crying over the fact that when everything has gone abroad? It's the same thing: If the master has a house and he's got a shed empty and he's got no wood and the guy's got nothing to complain about when I'm cold at night, whose fault is it? I'm sure it's not the neighbor's fault, but it's the house's master's duty to make sure there's wood in the shed and it's warm in the house. I think that this debate, when we ourselves have created this situation on the mining side, is worth remembering the old fact of miners that what we cannot grow must be dug up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u56	Mr President! Representative Hoskonen spoke of the fact that we live in a global world and we need trade, and that is something that, for example, the Finns of Finland do not dispute. Representative Hoskonen also spoke of the fact that we should not now see any bogeymans and here are some of these small risks that we could act, if I understood correctly, by setting up such a state mining company and directing there all investments in mining projects, if so understood. Well, that is precisely where we have problems here in the legislation, as I put it, including here on the bankruptcy side, as Mr Pokka has said, and these exist. And when this agreement comes into force, there will be this investment protection that can be put into effect if we change our legislation. That is precisely what we are calling for, that we should have good legislation so that we can conclude agreements on it. It is not a small matter or a bogeyman if we are left with millions of damage, as I did in this example that I mentioned in the previous speech. In 2015, we were left at the hands of many million taxpayers, was the damage of EUR 5 million now — that is not a small matter, is it? And yet if you think about it in such a way that it is not a car dealership or something smaller, but if the environment is damaged and destroyed, it can often not even be replaced with money, even if 10 billion are put there. It is unfair if it still remains for the Finnish taxpayers and whoever caused its destruction is going to go to Canada. In my opinion, however, these should be taken seriously. In my opinion, the government has now – and I understand that there is pressure and the parliamentary term is running out of time – had the attitude in many debates that ‘it has only begun to move forward and to be satisfied since then’. But now we have to take it easy and also think about the implications for the future. We end things for decades and do not compare them with such small things, such as some neighbours, or what Mr Hoskonen has just said. This is a big deal. These are permanent damage to nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u57	Madam President! It is also worth remembering, as I have already said, that we are still an export dependent state. If we don't have a foreign trade, we're going to have a bad time here. Just as the Committee on Foreign Affairs has said here in its report, this CETA agreement, which we are discussing today, is a positive signal in the current challenging situation of the international trading system, which, in trade policy in particular, provides a counterweight to the introvert of the United States, and this CETA agreement is precisely opening up access to the same continent in North America. When we start trading more and more with Canada, it is quite certain that it will put pressure on the United States as well that, for goodness sakes, they cannot be left out with the European Union. Yes, for their economy, it is essential for the United States to become involved in this trade and to dismantle these barriers to trade. If anyone still imagines in this world that by building barriers to trade and making international peaceful action difficult to create a new standard of living, I dare strongly disagree with that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u58	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen's speech raised an interesting theme about this, which is the European Union's motive to rush these issues. Now that the EU has, in a sense, taken its wing in the fact that the United States has begun to defend its own national interests and not to join every European Union squabble, let us try to force it through even this Canadian affair. That is probably what this is all about in Finland, when we, as EU runners, are here as well. The question now arises if a Canadian company came to Finland and caused a disaster such as Winterfell and hundreds of millions of bills to Finnish taxpayers and environmental damage that may never be compensated, and even without the permission of a supranational court, we should not change our laws to prevent this in the future and then, after ten years, someone in this Chamber would wonder whether it would have been worth being wise in advance rather than afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u59	President! Mr Hoskonen got some of these ideas moving when we talked about ore reserves and other assets. I myself represent such a position that what is in the country and under our ground and is found in Finnish soil is the property of Finns and the Finnish State. Therefore, the mining industry should also see to it that it acts as self-sufficient, our own activity, enriching our own industry and improving our export industry's potential. As far as this CETA agreement is concerned, I am of the opinion that we should be careful to ensure that our interests are monitored and managed further and that this is the way to manage Finnish information and property.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u60	Mr President! Indeed, in this debate we should not go behind that free trade, because it goes without saying that we are an export-driven economy and in that sense we also need foreign investments, investments in Finland, which then affect our exports as well. In fact, our investment levels are well below the EU average, so these aspects certainly advocate an increase in the different types of free trade. More free trade is actually a de-bureaucratic process, but this is not the case here. In other words, it would have been nice to see speeches here from representatives of the government that would at least see these problems, which are so obvious and have been repeated in these speeches. There are already all kinds of free trade agreements. Even this agreement could have been concluded without giving up jurisdiction, without setting up this investment court, because now, through this investment court, large companies are already under considerable pressure. And I'm sure there will be lawsuits when you think that the North American and Finnish Litigating Process and Litigating Culture are completely different. The Americans will mercilessly take advantage of these weaknesses which the European Union imposes on us and imposes on us. This is the very essence of the poodle right here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u61	Madam President! For my part, I would like to make a few comments. When it comes to international trade, we have no choice but to stay in the race. We have to conclude international agreements and, in this case, what we are discussing here, the CETA agreement, we are actually going to have to set up a judicial system which still has the right to appeal. In other words, compared with the fact that it would have been the arbitration procedure in which we are unlikely to succeed, the European Union has been able, together, to establish a system of permanent tribunals and permanent judges and, in particular, the right of appeal. When we engage in international trade, even if we sell goods to Canada, we make agreements, of course we must also respect Canada's laws. They live there in their own legislative world and we live here in our own, but it does not mean, for goodness' sake, that we should now mummify here and be here with ourselves and then say that it is not going very well when we are unable to pay off those debts. In this respect, it is worth noting that Canada is indeed a giant mining country in the world at the moment, when we were just talking about Winterfell, mining. I think it's a pretty clear one. I'm sure there's one in the top three. However, there is a massive mining industry in that country and they know what they're doing. Of course, there have been accidents and problems there too, but talking about Winterfell, for example, is a good illustration of this Finnish information climate. Winterfell has been seen as such a huge boogeyman, and now that it has got its affairs in order and is slowly starting to make a profit, that too has been seen as a problem. But at the same time, two years ago 66 tons of nickel were released into the River Kokemäen — a huge environmental disaster. We haven't said much about it, it's not that media-sexy. It is many hundred times bigger in its scale than Winterfell, but it is not media-sexy, it is of no interest to anyone, even though in reality a huge amount of damage was done than has ever been done at Winterfell. Winterfell has got things right, slowly making a profit — if it has something to be heartburned, so what, let it be that way. But sometimes we have to work and try to cope with the Finnish people, because we know this job, and we have one of the richest cliffs in the world, where there will be huge reserves of ore in the years to come. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to be a little open-minded about the creation of that Finnish mining company one day, even if it is the state. But when, for example, Mrs Myllykoski has made a lot of speeches and resisted such things as Winterfell and many others, then... [Jari Myllykoski’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u62	Mr President! At the very beginning, Mr Hoskonen must be acknowledged that he is the only representative of the government parties, in his own colorful way, today, in a very strong and, to some extent, thorough defence of the government's line to approve the CETA agreement. Among other things, Congressman Hoskonen has talked about painting devils on the wall. He has said that if this agreement is now rejected, it would create new barriers to trade. In our opinion, however, this is not quite the case, but it would simply mean moving forward in the present way. The Finns of Finland are also in favour of free trade, and especially as a small export-driven country for Finland, it is very important — we will certainly agree with Mr Hoskonen on this point — as long as the free trade is conducted under fair rules of play. Under no circumstances do we want to return to President Kekkonen's early bilateral trade, in which Finland was very strongly tied to a single trading partner, and that was one of the reasons for, among other things, the deepening of the recession in the 1990s. But, as we Finns and other oppositions have pointed out very well in this debate, this investment court is precisely the one thing we are very sceptical about. Mr Hoskonen has considered the transition to it to be a very small or insignificant matter, but like Mr Hoskonen. The sea has pointed out, yes, these things must be looked forward in the long term, not just so that Parliament now needs to move forward quickly. Yes, we must also shoulder our responsibilities to future generations. It cannot be that, after a few years or decades, everyone will be wondering why this agreement was adopted, and then the only explanation we have is that we were busy in Parliament, the social welfare reform had to be preceded by this CETA agreement. Mr President! So the Finns are in favour of free trade, but they are not in favour of this investment court procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u63	Madam President! Representative to Hoskonen: I have hardly ever hoped that you would read the speeches I have made — when you read them yourself sometimes, it does not always go quite straight. But it didn't go very well with Congressman Hoskose. If you really want to hear and tell what I tried to say about mining and investments here, I did not refer in any way to Winterfell. I was thinking about going to Pyhäsalmi on Saturday to watch the mine run. I have visited the mine several times when I have been the trustee of the Metal Union and the corresponding trustee of the mining industry, and I know that responsible mining, even if it is funded by foreigners, has also brought money to our economy, and when it is well managed, it is on a sustainable basis. But the dream, Mr Hoskonen, has not come true from the National Mining Fund. I know that your party partner, Mr Pekkarinen, is in the same line as Mr Myllykoski. I have put forward an initiative for action, presented a seed of EUR 50 million in the amending budget and budget, so that we can get money into this business so that we can form a national mining company in this country or an operator who can take up the challenge. But remember: for example, EUR 50 million is a very small amount of money for us to set up a mine here. It is perhaps precisely the kind of money that we can use to make experimental drilling and see if it is possible to set up a mine, and then there should still be capital — if it is to be held at national level — hundreds of millions of euros on top of it in order to set it up. There must be a small understanding of the scale of what it means to open a mine so that it is in national hands, and I hope that we will actually start to think about it. I will be with you tomorrow to write my name on such a paper that a national mining company will be set up in this country and let's go get investors — domestic investors who commit that they can go through the entire capital and there is not yet a single well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-15-ps-49.u64	Mr President! Representative Hoskonen used the argument to say that the investment court is needed, because it is not worth it that Finland should go to such arbitration when these arbitration procedures are lost. This argument is not even valid from the point of view, because in order for arbitration to take place internationally, a valid agreement with an arbitration clause is needed. That is why this international arbitration procedure is mostly used in disputes between large international companies. At present, when you go against a state to file an action, a large company will have to file its action before a national court, and not even, as far as I know, a complaint has been made against it in Finland. The Finnish judicial system, the Finnish judiciary, is very reliable. It is quite incomprehensible, which is why you want to give the foreign, supranational court jurisdiction over the Finnish courts. Nor is that any valid argument always to hide behind the concept of free trade or the usefulness of trade. It is a bit the same as in the European Union: we can conclude good trade agreements, and it is good for Europe to have a trade union, but all the bureaucracy and all the loss of self-determination that is committed to it is not in the national interest.
