ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 9/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. In this context, the debate is also allowed on the 4th item of the agenda. This is presented by the chairman of the committee, Mr Lapintie, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u2	Thank you, Madam Speaker! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has completed the reports on the monitoring of intelligence, two reports, both of which relate to this wide range of intelligence legislation. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] In addition, Parliament has accepted the amendment to Article 10 of the Finnish Constitution, and in accordance with this new Article 10(4), the law may provide for the necessary restrictions on the secret of the message in the investigation, trial, security inspection and deprivation of liberty of crimes that endanger the security of the individual or society or domestic peace, as well as for the provision of information on military activities, or [The President knocks ] other activities, [Fresh—The President-in-Office] In the context of this constitutional change, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered it particularly essential that adequate legal and supervisory arrangements be provided in the context of the inquiry, and now these two reports deal with this very system of control, judicial control and parliamentary control. This is considered very important for the proposed mandates of civilian and military intelligence. In addition to this, the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the practice of the Court of Justice of the European Union has highlighted the independence of the supervisory institutions and the effectiveness of supervision, and these have also been at the root of this preparation of the reports by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The judicial control of intelligence, which this government proposal deals with, is part of a whole set of supervision of intelligence activities, which also includes internal control of the authorities, judicial review of intelligence powers and now the proposed parliamentary control that I will present in that moment. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, without effective supervision, the authorities cannot be given as much powers as the government's proposals on civil and military intelligence suggest. According to the committee, the normal regulation of the proposed intelligence activity requires that adequate provisions on supervision and parliamentary control have already been adopted at the time when the final adoption of civil and military intelligence laws is decided at the plenary session of Parliament, and these two issues are now before Parliament and can therefore be accepted. With regard to this Intelligence Supervisor: The committee has changed the title of the authority, the name, in such a way that it corresponds to the parliamentary scrutiny to be set up here, otherwise the draft law on the Intelligence Supervisor will be proposed for adoption, mainly in line with the government's proposal. However, the committee proposes that the mandate be extended to cover the activities of the protection police as a whole. Furthermore, the committee believes that the independent role of the Intelligence Supervisor should be further strengthened. It is therefore proposed that only a person who has no interests likely to jeopardise the proper and independent performance of the supervisory function may be appointed as an intelligence supervisory officer. In addition, the Committee on Intelligence must be given the right to express its opinion on the office of the Commissioner for Intelligence, and this new committee can therefore interview applicants if it so wishes. In addition, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also draws attention to the resources of the Intelligence Supervisor. The resources available to the Intelligence Supervisor have a concrete impact on the constitutional admissibility of secret intelligence activities. The new authorisation must be effectively effective and the lack of resources must not constitute a practical obstacle to effective supervision. The introduction to the Government’s proposal states that the Intelligence Supervisor would have the necessary staff and that two experts and one assistant for the main activities would be envisaged. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is clear that the proposed organisation will not be able to secure comprehensive control properly and effectively, and the Committee would therefore like the Government to pay serious attention to the matter and consider it necessary to measure the resources allocated to control considerably higher than is envisaged in the explanatory memorandum in order to ensure the adequacy, completeness and effectiveness of controls. On the basis of the report it has received, it is clear from the committee that the resources required to monitor intelligence activities can even be multiplied as the implementation of intelligence progresses. With regard to parliamentary control, the Constitutional Committee proposes amendments: Firstly, the supervisory function of the Committee on Intelligence will be extended to cover the overall activities of the protection police. According to the initial proposal of the Council of Presidents, the President of Parliament would have obtained a comprehensive security report from the representatives proposed to be members of the committee before the Committee on Intelligence was set up. In this respect, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that, given the specific tasks of the Committee on Intelligence and the specific nature and extent of the subject matter of the right to information, the reliability and integrity of the committee's members may in practice be subject to specific requirements. However, the proposed procedure for applying for a personal security report is not well suited to the role of Parliament as the supreme state body elected by the people and also to the independence of the MP. Independence is also emphasised by the immunity of a Member of Parliament, which, in addition to this, includes a ban on the Members of Parliament being prevented from taking up their duties. A security report under this initial proposal would be drawn up by the Security Clearance Act, which would have meant that the intelligence-controlled authority would independently investigate information affecting the reliability of the members of the supervising institution. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, such a situation cannot be regarded as completely unproblematic in terms of the independence of Parliament's decision-making and the independence of its supervisory function, even if the report did not bind Parliament. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore considers that the objectives of the proposal can be achieved, rather than a security report, by means of a mechanism better suited to the functioning of Parliament, which is not based on a report by the protection police.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u3	We have time for 2 p.m. on this issue and we will take Mr Kantola from the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u4	Mr President! Parliament is 3.10. By its decision, the authorities have increased their powers to restrict the protection of confidential messages. That decision contained an amendment to Article 10 of the Constitution so that secret intelligence by intelligence authorities can also take place without any specific suspicion of a criminal offence. This may be justified by the targeting of intelligence on military activities or other activities that seriously threaten national security. That change was significant. In order to protect the legal security of citizens and the democratic social order, it is justified that new intelligence powers should at the same time be counterbalanced by strong and credible regulatory oversight. The reports by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs now before us contain a unanimous proposal from the committee on how that control should be organised. On the basis of the Government's proposal on the judicial control of intelligence and the proposal of the Council of Presidents on the parliamentary control of intelligence. The committee proposes that the powers of the new supervisory authority, the Intelligence Supervisor, be strengthened in relation to what they were in the proposal. When the District Court of Helsinki handles requests for a permit for intelligence, the Intelligence Supervisor has not only the right of presence but also the right to speak at the District Court. The right to speak by the intelligence authority is likely to strengthen the efforts of the intelligence authorities to justify requests for authorisation. The Constitutional Affairs Committee proposes that Parliament be involved in the election of the Intelligence Supervisor. The Committee of Inquiry should be allowed to pronounce on candidates before the Government decides on the appointment. The transitional provision would allow the recruitment of the first Intelligence Supervisor to begin even before the establishment of the Supervisory Committee. For the first time, the Constitutional Committee would take part in the election from the Parliament's side. Parliamentary scrutiny would be carried out by setting up a new committee in Parliament. The committee's role would be wider. The committee would monitor the whole operation of the supo, not just intelligence. The activities of the new committee emphasise the confidentiality and confidentiality of the committee and its members. In order to exercise its supervisory function, the committee has exceptionally extensive access to information for the activities of the protection police. The most difficult question has been whether it is necessary and whether, in this case, the suitability of Members of Parliament as members of the committee can be assessed in more depth than is the current practice. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs rejected the model contained in the proposal of the Council of Presidents, in which the President of Parliament would have asked for a comprehensive security report on the Members of Parliament who intended to be members of the committee. This was not considered good in view of the President's political role and the fact that the subject of controls in this model is being asked to assess the people who are about to be appointed members of the monitoring committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the basis of the long preparatory work and the hard work of the working group on coordination and the parliamentary monitoring group, decided to present a model in which the Data Protection Supervisor, at the request of a representative of Parliament who intends to work with the Committee on Intelligence, checks the information on him on the syllabus register. The Data Protection Ombudsman informs the MP of the outcome of the inspection and, if necessary, an evaluation discussion will be held between the MP, the Chairman of his parliamentary group and the Parliamentary Secretary-General. The final decision on the appointment of a representative to the committee will be taken in the plenary session of Parliament in the future, as is the case with other committees, as is now the case. It is therefore up to Parliament to decide on the selection of the committee. This procedure can be seen as guiding representatives and parliamentary groups to consider their own solutions in terms of how best to promote the capacity of the Committee on Intelligence to deal with information which is extremely sensitive and strictly confidential from the point of view of national security. A kind of ex-ante evaluation of a representative of Parliament, which relies on information from the Data Protection Ombudsman, is a novelty in parliamentary practice. That's why they worked on it for a long time. This has been achieved, however, because the Committee on Intelligence itself is also a novelty in this Parliament. No other committee will have, and will not have, the same rights of information as this new committee. The new committee's ability to act has therefore been preserved. It is valuable that the solution now presented has broad parliamentary support in this House, for which Mr Töll, Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and Mr Töll, who has been persistently leading the coordination group and, prior to that, the parliamentary study group, the monitoring group, in which these different views have been coordinated. Thank you for the work that has been done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u5	Madam President! With regard to this proposal, we must thank this Parliament very much, which has been able to bring it to this point. I believe that the whole process shows, firstly, that parliamentary preparation has played an enormous and valuable role in this, and also that security policy is a matter common to the whole of Parliament. There has been no unnecessary rise in government-opposition policy on this issue, but it is understood that this is a common cause for all of us, and this is precisely a matter of national security, which is not the place for a short-sighted political game. After all, the preparation of this legislative package has been very careful and thorough. In fact, it was the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence that started the preparatory work during the last parliamentary term, and then by the decision of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence in 2013, when a working group on data acquisition law was set up — that is why, from the very beginning, I was closely following this preparation myself. This completed the presentations as guidelines for intelligence legislation, but on that basis the Sipilä Government continued to prepare. After all, the proposals have been discussed very closely in the parliamentary monitoring group chaired by Mr Töll. I would like to thank Mr Töll for being so conciliatory in taking this forward and taking all the views into account so that we are now at this point. I would like to mention here in particular the representative of that parliamentary monitoring group, Mr Plant, who has been quite a real expert on this issue. I believe that your contribution, Mr Plant, was quite crucial for understanding what was at stake and for us to be here. Personally, I am very convinced that this legislative package is indeed needed. We are living in a situation where the threat of terrorism has increased. A serious terrorist attack, a cyber attack that threatens national security is possible at any time, and we have unfortunately witnessed in recent years that the nature of military threats has also changed, which was concrete in the takeover of Crimea. With the traditional intelligence powers of the Defence Forces based on analogue intelligence, it really is no longer enough. Organisational communication has moved into digital form, and this is also boosted by the promotion of legislation. This is, I might say, even moved on from the presentation that was made. Personally, I do find it rather ingenious the way in which the question of the inquiry into the members of the Committee on Intelligence was resolved. It must be acknowledged that the independence of the Members of Parliament is an important principle, and when these large-scale security investigations are not carried out on the ministers, I think that this solution is quite good and quite brilliant, so that we can now order and request this report from the Data Protection Supervisor before he has even been elected to this task, and at the same time we will be able to check this information — but we will be able to ensure that the appropriate persons are chosen for this task. In fact, one of the concerns that remains and which was raised by Mr Lapintie, the chairman of the committee, in his good speech, relates specifically to the resources of the Intelligence Supervisor. Yes, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs quite firmly states that the resources required in practice can even be multiple compared to what has been proposed, and I would actually have liked the Minister to have been here to assess and comment on how the government sees that these resources should be secured in the future. In any case, this observation by the Constitutional Committee must be taken seriously. Mr President! To conclude this thank you speech, I would like to thank Mrs Lapintie, the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who has shown a great deal of merit in this and in many other contexts: thank you for the fact that we are now at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u6	Madam President! Indeed, the committee has done a good job. We must remember where to start: the international situation and the needs of Finland. This law and the report in question now start from the fact that monitoring must be effective, but it must also be independent. This parliamentary control must also be carried out, and that is what this report is going to take forward. Basic and human rights must be realised. They're coming true. The delegate is associated with the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman and, as highlighted in this report, the status must be independent and independent. It is also right to stress that there must be no links with the supervised organisation, for example by taking leave of absence from that organisation and then being, as it were, monitoring friends or friends. It was also pointed out that the Committee on Intelligence has the opportunity to express an opinion on the Commissioner for Intelligence, which is also that parliamentaryism, and this is quite right. On resources: just like that, there must be sufficient resources to be able to do the work that needs to be done in practice. The size of the committee, that is what has also been mentioned here: 11 members, 2 on reserve, and that is the smallest that the committee can have under the Constitution as a whole. Of course, the whole is based on the fact that when you have confidential information, it is easier to keep it secret when the group is small. To this point, the procedure has now evolved from what is in the government's proposal. There will also be more responsibility for the parliamentary groups, and I am sure that this responsibility will be understood and also borne by the groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u7	Madam President! The Blue Parliamentary Group unanimously supported the urgent reform of the intelligence laws. As Mr Kiuru has pointed out here, so it must be said that today every day without this reformed legislation is endangering our national security. In view of the situation that has hit Europe as a result of the refugee crisis — partly as a result — there have been many people who have become radicalised, commit various terrorist attacks here or otherwise destabilise European societies. Then, of course, our eastern neighbour’s unfortunate activities in Ukraine and the illegal occupation of Crimea have contributed to the need for new legislation both civilian and military—remembering that we are manyother countries. Together with the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs, we visited Canada and there we met a member of their Committee on Intelligence. They even had legislation so far gone that they could get operational information. We asked them what legal punishment is if information is leaked and it can be proved in court. At least 15 years in prison. In other words, there is a connection, a reference point, which we can then look at when the work of the committee starts. I agree with Mr Räsänen that a good parliamentary consensus has now been found on the model of how to see that these people who apply for this committee have the background in order. Of course, we must also bear in mind this role of the Intelligence Commissioner, which will be very important, and it is important that, during this transitional period, we can begin to look at that side too. These resources have also been mentioned here. It was therefore very important that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs added to this motion a requirement that: The Office of the Intelligence Supervisor must be provided with sufficient resources as soon as the office is set up, as well as the District Court of Helsinki when the department dealing with intelligence law-based matters is launched. We now have a basis for how we can go ahead with this new legislation, but we must also emphasise the importance of the people who will be assigned to this Committee of Inquiry, they will be a lot of guards.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u8	Mr President! I suppose it is a little bit so that on this procedural side, of course, thanks belong to the representatives of Tölli, Lapintie et cetera, and in this way I would like to ask them once again to fund whether the announcement should not be re-evaluated. There are some examples. [Laughter] Mr President! I have had the opportunity a few times in recent times to look at the way in which the United States today is politically concerned about foreign, security and defence policy in particular, and it is not very pleasant to come out and say publicly that I may not remember, at least for the next few decades, a period when I would have been so concerned about the direction of the international situation as it is at present. This observation is, of course, not solely based on what was clearly readable, audible, debated in Washington and New York as well as in Ottawa a little earlier, but, unfortunately, on the fact that the trend in the international situation is also worrying elsewhere, and of course I am referring to the nature of international development from a multinational point of view, from the point of view of the sustainability of the international system of agreements in terms of how diversity is reflected in continental plates and so on, and so on. Unfortunately, in many ways the continent of Europe may at its worst be the one who has to pay the whole bill. I refer in particular to the possible consequences of the INF agreement. When this state of affairs is like this, it does not mean that this is going to end up in a traditional armed conflict, the risk, too, unfortunately, cannot be ruled out in our security environment as a whole, but the question is that the world image has changed in a way where there is a wide grey zone between war and peace, within which activity thrives in many ways in a very embarrassing and unfortunate way — in a way that we have not even been able to see for very long. We have to live in a world where, along with others, we face the very harsh attitudes of those who are dressed in the robes of terrorism, which motivate those who are alien to our culture — very foreign and repulsive. The opponent is smart, he is innovative, he knows how to use modern technology skillfully and efficiently. Its means are diverse and capable of striking in a way that we cannot foresee. We have diplomacy, we have deterrent effects. Naturally, we are strengthening our defence and trying to maintain our resilience, the inner resilience of our society. But it is not enough in this situation, but it must also be able to be alert and perhaps be able to see proactively what threats we, as a nation, may face and see. That is why I think it is a great thing that Parliament today can see this situation at this stage in the legislative process that has been discussed here at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u9	We really must end this by 2 p.m., but then we will continue the debate later this evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u10	Madam President! I believe that the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is now under discussion, is one of the most important documents that I have been able to deal with in my limited political career. For Finnish security, it is absolutely essential that we get our own military intelligence and civilian intelligence legislation at the level of the rest of Europe and the rest of the world. Just as Mrs Kanerva described the situation in her excellent speech, the world today is not a good and safe place. It reminds me by force of the word of a wise Ehrensvärd, that the nation should stand on its own ground and not rely on the help of a stranger. Of course we have to search for friends, but we need to keep our own information and information up to date. In this context, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Annika Lapintie, and Vice-President Tapani Töll and the whole committee for their excellent work. The President Yes, Lapintie has kept things well under control, and things have progressed in an admirable way. And for that, thank you very much. The fact that we are now reaching the level of intelligence and intelligence control required by the world is a cause for great joy. I do not need to lecture you, ladies and gentlemen, on what has happened in the world over the last three years. The world is no longer as safe as it once was, and, as we know, the development of intelligence methods, different methods of espionage in the world is so fierce and so rapid that it is absolutely necessary for Finland to participate in the information networks and to extend surveillance there. It is strange that until now, scouts from foreign countries have been able to access the Finnish information networks freely, but our authorities have not been able to go there. After all, all public activities must be governed by law, and the law must be strictly observed, as our Constitution states. That is why it is essential that this law and the whole package of intelligence laws be implemented and, above all, put into effect as quickly as possible. I think that the Constitutional Committee has produced excellent reports and opinions on various laws in this area, and they are very good and strong to read. Parliament has already adopted legislation that allows the protection of a confidential message, in Article 10 of the Constitution, to be affected when national security is seriously threatened. There is not so much action that there should be no sensible and good control over it, and in this report this control has now been achieved. It's written in the form it's supposed to be. In any case, this Committee on Intelligence, which will be set up, and the Intelligence Supervisor, who will begin his work in cooperation with the Data Protection Supervisor, will need both installations, and will need to be given sufficient resources to act and, above all, to extend it to all intelligence activities. This is where these frameworks of the game are on all sides: control exists, intelligence works, and the tasks and decisions of these players are fully monitored. That is why this package of reports, which is now before Parliament, is very good, and there are a number of points here that should be remembered: ‘It is important for the Committee on Constitutional This is exactly the big thing that needs to be pointed out and the way in which intelligence is being provided in this country. And the second point: ‘The committee’s opinion also requires that adequate control arrangements be made for the protection police’. To quote these few words from a fine report, we are in the process of reaching a level of intelligence which is only good for this nation. It is clear that when a confidential message is tampered with, there must be strong grounds for it. These criteria, as recorded in this report, are absolutely excellent. Finally, Mr President, when we look at intelligence, it also applies, of course, to our authorities — police and other authorities, the Border Guard and so on — but of course it also applies to military intelligence, which is of paramount importance for the security of the nation. But we must also be careful to achieve such a level of knowledge, and in Finland we know how to use a computer and information technology, which means that it is not up to us to do so. Now that this law comes, we will have clear limits to this action, which will also make it easier for the authorities to act, and we will have a clear framework around it. After all, intelligence also serves our business operations. Of course, in our information networks there is always a problem with the malware of military and other civil intelligence activities, which we have so far had no access to, but now we are getting to the level of our equipment technology, know-how and legislation that we need to have. Many Finnish companies today have lost huge fortunes due to the fact that various espionage programmes have taken away information so that the company has lost huge economic values and they are irreversible damage. Today, the taking over of another property is no longer taking place in any market market place, so that a purse or something else is taken out of the pocket, but very much in the information networks. Just think of the information that is circulating in banks — if someone is able to tamper with account information or even make bank transfers — or companies that have, for example, very important patents: breaking into them knows that the company is losing, the company is losing, people are losing huge property values for the fact that we have not been informed by intelligence law. That is why I consider this legislative package, which is now under discussion, to be very important. Finally, Mr President, thank you for the excellent work done by the chairman and vice-president of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u11	Congressman Tölli. — Let us then take the debate to this final stage, and we shall be able to detract from it a little bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u12	Mr President! The proposals now before us on intelligence control are an important part of the whole — one can say that a key condition for the acceptance of the actual intelligence laws, namely the Civil Intelligence Act and the Military Intelligence Act. This overall increase in intelligence powers will be significant and we will come closer to the level and situation of our peers. We are better placed to be responsible for our national security. But that requires that our control system is good, and I dare say that this whole set of controls is more robust and stringent than in many other countries. And it's very important. This work, which has been done here, shows, in my view, that parliamentary preparation on common important issues is worthwhile. I would like to thank all of you who have been involved in this work in the Parliamentary Monitoring Group, the Coordination Group and the relevant committees. In my opinion, this shows that your own success will only come through joint success. This shows that, where necessary, collective responsibility can be exercised. And when there are difficult situations and there is a certain need to make decisions, there are also solutions. It has been important in this respect. Well, then there is one interesting observation from the point of view of this work — I do not know whether it is appropriate for me to say it, but I do say it anyway: I have noticed that, for example, between the Defence Administration and the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. internal security and external security, could you say that the border fence has disappeared, which means that this security is seen more uniformly and speaks the same language, and that is not a minor matter. I will not go into detail in this supervision, but in some respects I will mention it. The choice, role and authority of this judicial officer, the Intelligence Supervisor, will be significant — a new law enforcement officer. This is where attention has been paid to the resources of the law enforcement officer. However, during this preparation, there has always been a clear line that resources should be secured in accordance with the need. It is just that it is difficult to say precisely what size they are, but the starting point is exactly as the Constitutional Committee said that resources should be sufficient. Then there is the Committee on Budgetary Control. This is new, in many ways new, and its role is limited. It is quite different from the other parliamentary committees, and the role of the members of this committee is responsible. In other words, when a representative is elected in the groups, then you have to feel the responsibility that this person bears. I think that the essential word for this is ‘trust’,that this person can rely on,but alsothat there is a mutual trust,andthat there is no harm if,as in a number of other cases, That system presupposes that this will work, and that is why the preliminary verification of the parliamentary background is also justified, and that in this draft of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has now been carried out in such a way that the Data Protection Supervisor is the body responsible for it. I do not think there is anything strange about this; it is a natural thing. Then, over time — because this is a new committee — it will prove what is the operating practice and the pace of work, and so on, how often the committee meets, but cooperation will be close with this judicial officer. It is a close partner, and information passes through it. And, of course, the committee will hear from those who need to be heard if necessary. It is also a key task for this committee to draw attention to the fact that what the legislator has meant when it comes to legislating is being achieved, and when it comes to moving, it is going to change. This is a huge package of details. It is natural that we should also monitor whether there are any updates to this, but there are good conditions here when there is a great consensus that this package is needed. And this is not just for this moment, not for this government, not for the next one or for the next, but for the longer term. This system must also withstand breakers and times of crisis. It must not be subject to political conditions. I think it is a good idea to continue on this basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u13	Thank you. — I will now give you answers, but now we will only be able to take a few of them. I don't list because there were so many of these names here. I'll take it in the order I'm taken. — The representative of the plant begins.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u14	Mr President! It is indeed excellent that consensus has been found on these last details of the intelligence laws. Such an important issue must not be left behind in politics. Indeed, I am particularly pleased that the importance of intelligence control has been understood and this naive belief in the authorities that we have once had has not blinded us anymore. If a good case of Aarnio and the Supreme Police Department trial is to be found, then perhaps it is then that we understand that trust in good, control is necessary. In my view, the structures created to monitor intelligence could also be used elsewhere where similar activities exist. For example, in view of the police’s secret coercive measures, the legality of which has been questioned at times, there could be a need for a similar coercive officer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u15	Mr President! Our own country must be defended by all means possible, including parliamentaryism and the defence of the fundamental rights of our citizens. The solution that has now been found as to how the capacity of a representative of Parliament who may be elected to the Committee on Intelligence will be reviewed before the election is made is justified. Between one and the other, there seemed to be very little of these defenders of parliamentarianism. The selection process, in which the protection police would have been involved, although not deciding or making statements about their future supervisor, would have been very strange, and it has also been stated by the Constitutional Committee. In the coming years, we will see how this committee will find its role, its responsibilities. After all, it has a huge right to information but a strict, strict obligation of professional secrecy, close cooperation with the Intelligence Commissioner, the Protection Police and the Military Intelligence, and it already imposes heavy demands on cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u16	Mr President! This is a very big piece of legislation that's about to be completed. It will certainly meet the challenges of time, as has been said here. At the same time, it is clear that this gives the authority exceptional powers to intervene in the transmission of a message from citizens. Therefore, when these tough powers are given, it is essential that there should also be supervision of the activities of the authorities. I am pleased that a common solution has been reached with regard to the protection police, in which the whole protection police will come under normal parliamentary control. It can be relied on to ensure that the institution does its work fairly and objectively and that all social circles can be satisfied with its work. I am very pleased that there has been a considerable willingness to compromise among the government parties to move forward with this package of legislation. I would like to add my voice to the thanks that have been expressed here both to the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to Mr Lapintie and to Vice-President Töll, who have done a great job so that this can be the subject of unanimous decision-making today. It is a credit to the Finnish people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u17	Madam President! We're dealing with an important legal package. As we know, we have depended on intelligence from other countries, and it is good that this is now being corrected according to this bill. There has been a good analysis of the deterioration of the security situation at international level. We have also seen the need to prepare for Finland’s national security threats, as well as the rapid development of communication technology will facilitate networking and communication between those who pose a threat to Finland, and it is also good to get to grips with this better. There are also many new phenomena on the surface: hybrid influence, the cyber environment is becoming increasingly important, terrorism. Control is an integral part of this legislative package, and it is true that without effective supervision there can be no increased powers. I am also concerned about the resources required to monitor intelligence. They must be safeguarded both in terms of judicial control and parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u18	President! I also agree with the praises of the representatives Lapintie and Tölli, not only because of the hoksnokka, but also because of the personal qualities they have, the representatives that I respect. This was a great goal. This has been a maturity test for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for which it has performed excellently. We have been able to stay with time on this issue and we have reached a unanimous draft report. From the point of view of society, there is no reason to play and solo on fundamental issues, and the Constitutional Committee certainly did not do that in any way, quite the contrary. We were indeed discussing these resource issues. At the expert stage, it was partly unclear how, for example, replacement arrangements are to be managed, but this was also clear: it will then be defined in the statute of the mandated office.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u19	Madam President! On several occasions, the KD parliamentary group has expressed its support for bringing the bill to the end as quickly as possible, because, as we have heard, we have long been lagging behind other Western countries, particularly with regard to intelligence legislation. In order to ensure Finnish security, the authorities must have a toolkit at their disposal to avoid groping in the dark. Now the authorities have the necessary tools. I am also pleased that all the parliamentary groups — thank you once again to Mr Töll for his negotiating skills — reached agreement and that the Constitutional Committee too, after a few amendments, quickly completed its report. This law is meant to work for all Finns, not against any Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u20	Mr President! However, the procedure for a candidate for membership of the Committee on Intelligence is still somewhat unclear in this new system, which was formulated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In practice, this goes to the point where the representative who wants to be a member of the committee contacts the Data Protection Supervisor himself and the Data Protection Supervisor then considers the allowance for the functional data register. The representative then consults with the Data Protection Supervisor, and in this context he has the opportunity to draw his own conclusions as to whether or not he will continue to apply. In my opinion, the procedure is very good, and it is worth remembering that, in any case, the parliamentary groups will select candidates for this Committee on Intelligence and then, in the final game, the plenary will confirm these memberships. This is a good procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u21	Mr President! As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would now like to thank everyone who has been involved in this work. Everyone's input has been significant. It is good to note here — this was of particular interest to the media and the citizens — how this parliamentary security report is going to go, and now it is really this kind of inspection. And it is good to note from the explanatory statement that this information is first given to the MP himself, so that it can then stop and think about its own confidence. But trust is good. Here was also a symbol of the need for punishment: In other words, it is good to note that the criminal code, as an information and communication crime, condemns this violation of secrecy. We know that politicians have a habit of leaking, which means that they too can then be expected to be punished if you go to others like this to tell you. In addition to this, however, we must not forget the controlled immigration policy and border control so that we know who our citizens are here. We now have one more tool for monitoring, but we must not forget that either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u22	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! För det första vill jag säga att det är ett oerhörtgott betyg för ricksdage att vi tillsammans nu har komment komma så rai långt, och det ska vi vara glada över. Men jag skulle också cereal påpeka att det skulle vara skäl att lasa grundlagsutskottets utlåtande mycket noga både när det gäller resurserna till den nya tjänsten, det vill säga till underrättelsetylsynsombudsmannen och hans byrå, och också till domsolarna.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u23	Mr President! Excellent speeches have been made here and thanks have been given not only to the parliamentary work on this subject but also to those who have taken responsibility so that compromises can be reached. I'd like to thank them myself. When we talk about these matters, not just about the supervisory law currently before us or about amending Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but about this whole set of intelligence laws, it is extremely important that, first of all, a broad consensus has been found here in Parliament that these are necessary, but especially about the content of which these can be accepted. I think this is an excellent example of the fact that, when we are on the move on fundamental issues concerning our nation, there may also be a sense of unity in this house. Now we have an excellent example of this, and I hope that this will continue to be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u24	Madam President! The proper and extensive organisation of intelligence control is necessary, and that is what we are doing, good. The role of the High Commissioner for Intelligence will be emphasised in the future, and it is particularly important for us Greens that, when choosing the Commissioner, attention is paid to human rights and fundamental rights, for example, because the work and intelligence activities of an authorised person place greater emphasis, for example, on the international exchange of information and its monitoring. It is also important for the protection police to be fully subject to parliamentary scrutiny. This is a very welcome reform, and the Greens welcome the fact that a solution has now been found to this debate on the comprehensive security report, to which all the parliamentary groups will obviously be able to commit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u25	Madam Speaker! Perhaps, at the end of this part of the debate, I could say that it is good to remember that this relates to a broad set of intelligence legislation, which has been prepared by a large number of officials and also by a large number of Members of Parliament, as has been mentioned here. Since the plenary session stated by a large majority that the amendment of the Constitution is urgent, the Constitutional Committee and other committees as well as officials and officials have prepared this as a matter of urgency and so that this content of civil and military intelligence legislation can proceed, the Constitutional Committee then stated that it is a condition for proper supervision. Now, with regard to these two reports, the law enforcement and parliamentary control will be in order to make further progress during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u26	All the groups have now received a response, and at this stage we will have to suspend the debate and the debate. The proceedings will continue at this session at the end of the general debate in Section 23.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u27	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u28	Mr President! It is proposed to provide for a law on the supervision of intelligence activities. The new law organises the judicial review of civil and military intelligence and provides for certain details of parliamentary control. Mr President! None of us will belittle our role as defenders and guardians of the security of our citizens. The preparation and handling of this legislative package has shown that there is a consensus on matters of national security, although there are different priorities for different parties. Taking these priorities into account, taking into account and formulating proposals in such a way as to achieve the widest possible coverage, unanimity, I would like to thank those responsible, both in terms of preparation and in terms of parliamentary work: both the parliamentary working group and those discussed in the parliamentary committee. As many here earlier today said and thanked, I too would like to express my special thanks to Mr Töll and Mr Lapintie for the very important consensus-oriented work they have done to achieve this. The progress of this package, the adoption of a unanimous decision on a difficult dossier, shows that this House is indeed capable of working together for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u29	Madam President! With regard to this legislation on control of intelligence, which has been prepared by Parliament, I too would like to thank Mr Töll and Mr Lapintie from the outset for the leadership, the dignity, the negotiating skills in which this has been carried forward. As Mrs Viljanen has just said, it is also a good sign that, at the very heart of such a big, wide, sensitive issue, there is a consensus here in the house for the people of Finland, good organisation and also the right focus on it so that we can also take up this activity. Perhaps one of the things that has been put forward for a long time — and I am sure we all still have that in mind — was the election of this representative to this committee. I hope that this solution, which has now been reached, will allow us, in fact, to carry out the work of this committee on a sufficiently broad basis, so that in no way will this restrict its committee's access to information. However, each of us understands what we are seeking with this, what we are trying to achieve with this. We are trying to make the security situation of the Finnish people even better and we can ensure that we are always one step ahead when some intelligence is available to us, which will then also limit our security. In other words, I hope that this procedure, which now led to the appointment of representatives in this committee, will be without prejudice to information in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u30	Madam President! The work of the committees deserves praise. As far as content is concerned, I have no comment to make, and I also agree with the thanks that have been expressed here to these representatives who have made a good contribution. In this context, I would like to highlight this method of preparation and I think it is very good. This parliamentary preparation, whether it be a committee or a type of working group, in such difficult or large-scale matters of such quality is certainly appropriate and it may be that this project, too, has received a unanimous solution because of the fact that this was a parliamentary preparation, in which case all the parliamentary parties have been involved. Everyone has been given the right basic knowledge, everyone has been able to make a difference. The level of debate on this difficult issue has thus increased, both here in Parliament, in public and among the public, and in this way the public's confidence in our entire legislative system has, I believe, been strengthened when we see that this is how difficult things can be carried forward in harmony and in the spirit of seeking a good outcome. It can now be said that this is a very good outcome. So, for that, thank you very much. It is now time to call on the next government to use such parliamentary preparation in these broad areas more effectively and decisively than in the past. If it had been prepared in this way, we would certainly have reached that point. Now that there is a social war ahead, it would be wise to do so, that is to say to involve everyone and to obtain access to information and information for everyone in a working group or committee where experts are consulted and can be discussed in depth. Mr President! When intelligence legislation also concerns the current treatment of cyber activities, data and other such activities in society, I will renew the idea which I have said here many years ago that it would be good if we had a government minister for the information society, who would hold the entire sector politically, responsibly and thus intersectorally. Both the state and the municipalities have lost hundreds of millions — one can say that they have lost — of money when they have taken forward these information society projects, and now would be the last time to take over the situation and manage it responsibly in this way. Perhaps, if the Greens take up the government, the representative of the plant would be the best person for this minister's seat.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u31	Madam President! It is indeed a good thing that we are at this stage. Now we're a little over halfway through this whole intelligence package. This began with the amendment to Article 10, which is to say, in a very exceptional way, the whole of Parliament, or therefore five-sixths of Parliament, felt that the security situation has changed so much that we have to do, or we will have to do, with a slight change in fundamental rights,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u34	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 28/2018 vp. The State budget procedure for 2019 was adopted at the plenary session on 14 December 2018 and the report was put on the table for today's plenary session. We shall now proceed to the general debate. After a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, 10 minutes, the debate will continue with group speeches of up to 7 minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. Following the general debate on the budget as a whole, there will be a section-by-section general debate in which the section presidents of the Committee on Finance will present the report within 5 minutes for the section concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u35	Madam Speaker! On the previous point, there was recognition and commendation, and I would like to start in the same way. First of all, I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, Members, section presidents, all the alternates and all the staff involved in the preparation of the report on which this debate is based. The underlying budget for next year will ensure sustained growth and better employment. At the same time, public services can be ensured for Finns. According to a recent estimate by the Ministry of Finance, GDP will increase by around 1.5 per cent next year. The economic outlook remains favourable, but it is estimated that rapid growth is already behind us. The growth of the economy is slowed down by, among other things, a reduction in investment in buildings and many uncertainties in Europe and the rest of the world. Employment has developed well in recent years. This year, in particular, the number of jobs has increased rapidly, resulting in a rate of employment of 72%. The good economic climate has also improved public finances, the deficit of which continues to decline. Finland is therefore considered to comply with the criteria of the EU Treaty. However, the favourable economic cycle masks the structural problems of public finances. Despite the good economic climate, public finances are still in debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u48	And then let's go to group speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u49	Mr President! The French singer, Yvonne Printemps, said: “There are three things to be said for happiness: something to do, someone to love, and something to hope for. “ In fact, happiness is a good life. Every person has the right to do so, and politics has the task of creating the conditions and ensuring this possibility. President! The legacy of the previous government was very poor. That is why we have had to look too much at what is under the line in recent years. Now that we've got people working, we can finally put something on top of the line. Next year, the lowest pensions and daily allowances for the poorest families of children will be increased. Improvements go to the right targets. It is said that the measure of society is how it takes care of its weaker ones. The events in France, Great Britain, Italy, the United States and, in part, in Sweden also show what can happen when the hard-pressed, just ordinary people feel forgotten and uninvolved. Finland is still an equal country in international comparisons. Thank you for the reforms that have been made, including in our country's economy. For the first time in ten years, we will reduce the government debt. However, there is no need to speak black and white in the city centre. We know that behind the green-looking numbers, everyday life is still a day-to-day survival for many Finns. Unemployment continues to exist in many homes, and the livelihoods of short-term and shredded workers, many small entrepreneurs and many farmers are constantly at stake. There are half a million Finns in enforcement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u62	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In over 110,000 families, Christmas is brighter because of finding a job than at the beginning of this parliamentary term. The economic climate has been positive, but according to expert estimates, half of the growth in employment would have remained unfulfilled without the active efforts of this government. During this parliamentary term, the competitiveness of Finnish work has been improved, the standards that hinder entrepreneurship have been dismantled and the incentive to work has been improved — the permission to do so. You'll have a bigger slice of your own hard work today. No employee has been subject to tax pressure during this parliamentary term, and taxes on earned income have been reduced by 1.4 billion, with particular emphasis on small and medium-income Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u67	Mr President! All of us here are delighted with the economic growth in which Finland has finally been involved. It is also excellent that, after some revenue has come to an end, there was no need to raise the last instalment of this year's debt. War veterans and their loved ones may wonder, though, that if you do not need extra money right now, why? The Sipilä government is really cutting the front.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u72	President! There are many speeches in this Chamber, and it is no wonder if it is sometimes difficult for the citizens to understand what the situation really is. That is why I shall begin the speech of the Blue Parliamentary Group with figures rather than a statement of opinions. During the current government, employment has increased by around 115,000 people. That is more than what was set as a goal. In the last parliamentary term, unemployment increased instead of employment: more than 100,000 people were unemployed instead of more than 100,000. Long-term unemployment as well as youth unemployment increased. During the last parliamentary term, the state also owed some EUR 5 billion a year as the SDP held the portfolio of the Minister of Finance. On the other hand, the present government has brought about a break in debt. For the first time in ten years, our country will not go into debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u81	Mr President! True Finns want to ensure that economic growth is finally enjoyed by all citizens. No one should be left alone. We want to invest in Finland and Finns and we have offered a clearly fairer alternative to the Government's proposal in our alternative budget. The decision-makers elected by Finland must defend the interests of our country and our citizens. Although the government is getting to its employment target, driven by the growth of the global economy, the sustainability gap has not been eliminated during the parliamentary term. Age-related expenditure and subdued economic growth are creating a sustainability gap of up to 4% of GDP. The next government will have to deal with the sustainability gap. The decline in agricultural and rural services has accelerated recently. The EU policy of a central government is federalist and the EU financial framework threatens to destroy our countryside once and for all. The people of Finland will be forgotten. A key threat to public finances in the coming years is the cost of the social welfare reform. There will be no savings. On the contrary, social costs are increased by, among other things, wage harmonisation, ict costs and increased use of services. This would inevitably also increase customer charges. In order to reduce costs, the next government must actively seek new opportunities to maintain citizens' ability to function, and welfare technologies also need to be invested. Mr President! Education and lifelong learning will play an increasingly important role. A large number of young people are excluded from working life and education. These young people must be involved in working life in order to prevent permanent exclusion. In the next decade, one million citizens will need to be trained and further trained. Quality of training and adequate resources must be ensured. We need smart training and targeted skills in further education. The budget for education and research must be increased across the board, as we propose in our alternative budget. Working life is changing. The future government must dismantle incentive traps because the present government has failed in its mission. There is a need for a reform of social security systems that reconciles wages, benefits and other income. Receipt of a job must always be profitable and there must be no interruptions in the payment of any benefits when taking part in temporary work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u84	Mr President! "All happy families are similar to each other, every unfortunate family is With this well-known sentence begins author Leo Tolstoi as the great novel Anna Karen. Virke is also suitable for describing Finnish everyday life. The Finnish families with good things share many similar pieces of happiness: there is education and there is a job, there is an apartment and there is health, there is a safety net for friends and family. The picture of Finnish underprivilegedness is more diverse. It is enough that one of the cornerstones of life is at its root: school drop-out, unemployment, homelessness, sickness, the absence of a safety net for the loved ones. For some, the food of life is already weaker in childhood. It is a halting figure that every eighth Finnish child lives in poverty. Many people later experience adversity when they fall off the road of learning, become unemployed, or face health problems. A well-being society means that, in the face of life’s difficulties, safety nets also work. It's not always like that. The current social security reform must be part of the development of a functioning safety net. The next reform of the social security system will then be at least as important a renovation. It also provides an opportunity to develop a socially just basic income that would reduce poverty, cut red tape and incentive traps, increase predictability and encourage efforts. Mr President! Yesterday Sunday ended an important climate conference in Katowice, Poland, where rules for the implementation of the climate agreement were adopted. If the menu was approved in Paris, the recipes have now been put on the table in Katowice. In a year's time, Chile will continue with what was not completed in Katowice. Negotiations are important, but the direction is now clear. Finland must also tighten its 2030 emissions target to less than 60 per cent, and in the same period aim to be carbon neutral. There is talk of a major change in our way of producing and consuming ecological restructuring. Climate change is a question of the fate of our civilisation, and responding to it requires changes of scale in the industrial revolution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u85	Madam President! The late left-wing MP Outi Ojala once said that strong state finances are the best friend of the poor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u90	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Finland is not France, Finland is not Great Britain, Finland is not Greece and Finland is not Italy. Finland is Finland and in many respects it is a good thing. After many difficult years, the economy has been growing for the past three years. Employment has improved and central government debt is decreasing for the first time since 2008. However, the government has no reason or means to bludgeon. Not everyone feels that Finland is doing better. Like the French yellow vests, many, far too many, Finns feel that their income is not enough for a decent everyday life. In addition, the National Audit Office for Fiscal Policy recently published a report which is worryingly readable. The main conclusion of the report is that the government has not managed to reduce the long-term sustainability gap in public finances. The reason why the government has failed in its key objective of reducing the sustainability gap is obvious. This is mainly due to the fact that the central objective of social welfare reform, to curb future spending pressures on health care, does not seem to be realised.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u91	Mr President! It is no longer worth arguing about whether or not there has been a positive turnaround in the economy. Yes, it has.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u94	Madam President! Thank you for the thorough and good work done by Parliament, the committees and, in particular, by the Committee on Finance and its sections during the autumn, and thank you to the firm and thoughtful chairman of the committee for the good management of the work. This always provides a good basis for future budgets, and these debates are valuable when we look ahead, especially when we are coming to the end of the parliamentary term. Then it is good to stop and think about where we are and where we are going. Personally, I have to say that there is a bit of a split mood at the moment. On the other hand, I am very pleased with what has been achieved during this regime. In fact, the government has achieved all its main objectives of economic policy and employment policy. 115,000 people, 115,000 households have received work. It is an important thing that cannot be ignored in this society. It creates a foundation for equality in Finland and is the basis for maintaining well-being. Debt has been halted and public finances are in practice balanced. The overall tax rate has fallen by 2 percentage points and no one has increased taxation. So we have to be very happy with this. But at the same time I am concerned when I look at the future: the challenges of the 20th century have not disappeared anywhere, but on the contrary, the last forecasts of the sustainability gap indicate that our challenges have still run away when the underlying birth rates have been taken into account there. So we must work decisively for the future, and I hope that today's debate will also focus very much on what is being done and must be done for the well-being of Finland and Finland from now on. The good news really came this weekend that we are not living on our children's tabs this year, but that the debt will be reduced by 900 million. There are several different factors behind this, several different factors.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u101	Thank you. — Then we go to the debat, and first the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u102	Thank you, Mr President. I understand that we all share the view that there are very many uncertainties in the world that, in one way or another, reflect Europe. Nevertheless, we have a completely different political picture of how we can strengthen the economic, financial and tax policies of Finnish consumers and Finnish entrepreneurs in the future so that consumer confidence can continue and that predictability for the economy during the next parliamentary term would be a continuation of this parliamentary term. We must now forget about the parliamentary elections in the spring and try to find a view such as that: As a small country, Finland will be able to continue the good employment development it has achieved over the past four years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u103	And now for the group speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u104	Mr President! Really, I, too, have people and entrepreneurs and others asking me what the SDP's line is.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u107	Madam President! The news of the weekend after ten years of borrowing was hard and great news for every Finn. For the first time since 2008, Finland’s central government debt will decrease, now being reduced by about EUR 1 billion. Whether the opposition claims anything here in the Chamber or in the marketplaces, the truth is that the economic policy pursued under the leadership of Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo works. It's producing results. There is indisputable evidence of this: employment is improving, unemployment is falling, and the economy is growing. But the skilled labour force is our problem, and measures are now coming to this. I would like to ask Mr Grahn-Laasonen: how quickly can these training and retraining help those companies that are now in dire need of working hands, skilled workers? The Minister of Labour, Mr Lindström, can also answer that question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u108	Mr President! It was a pleasant surprise that incomes were brought forward so that the last instalment of this year’s debt did not have to be raised — that is, a surprise, including for the government, and not a planned economic policy. The wind has also been brought about by the economic growth that has been more significant than the government's own actions. Public finances are not balanced. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u109	President! There's really no reason to bang the henkels. We have to remember that the economy is out of balance, and the VM's forecast is harsh reading. But now we are on a good path, and it is therefore important that the employment situation continues to improve, because unemployment is no worse than war, and unemployment is not just an economic issue, it is also a human dignity issue. It is very good that this government has a disability programme as one of the key issues, and I ask the active Minister for Labour, Lindström: how do you believe that this programme will work in the near future? How can we combat exclusion and bring people back to the same boat as part of the labour market and the common life?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u110	Mr President! Parliament must definitely take measures that promote the opportunities of a normal Finnish citizen to work and live a normal life. This requires not only tax moderation but also the development of a training system in a direction that promotes employment. There is no reason to give up considering the availability of foreign labour. Finnish young people need to be trained in areas where more labour is needed in the future. At the same time, the risk of exclusion for Finnish young people is reduced and, of course, the costs of central government finances are reduced and tax revenues are increased. This would definitely be in everyone's interest. Mr President! Unfortunately, the new, totally unrealistic plans of the Ministry of Transport and Communications to make motor vehicles and even work more difficult would take employment development completely in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u111	Mr President! Minister Orpo made a very good point about climate policy, saying that it may not be the subject of a dispute. It must not be, but must be built around a broad consensus. But you will understand the pain of the opposition when we have seen how the government, for example, is continuing or increasing subsidies for companies that are operating in a completely different direction, which means that environmentally harmful subsidies are still present in this budget. [Current Group: What did you do?]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u112	Madam President! Minister of Finance Orpo, once again you bragged about the tax rate decline. If the tax rate were at the same level as it was at the beginning of the parliamentary term, our public finances would be much better off. You are talking about tax reductions given to employees. What was behind them? They were based on the fact that in the kiky agreement you forced employees to pay social security contributions to employers in a billion-dollar category. Of course, for its compensation, it was only natural to have to make income tax reliefs. But for the balance of public finances, our debt next year would be lower and our surplus this year would be higher without this policy of yours. As far as the centre line is concerned, my friend, Mr Ala-Nissila, said here two points: hire a thousand teachers — it is easy to hire after the first two thousand — and then you said one way or another that low-income pensioners should be helped during the next parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u113	Irade the Talman! Liksom minister Orpo är också jag orolig för hållbarhetsunderskottet, och fast sysselsättningen har förbättrats och statsskulden minskar vill jag ändå fråga regeringen vilka åtgärder regeringen nu har vidtagit eller änker vidta för att trygga en bätttre utveckling på lite längre sikt. Statens revisionsverk constaterar ju att regeringen inte lyckats med att minska det långsiktiga hållbarhetsunderskottet hits, och finansministeriet constaterar i dag att tillväxten håller på att försvagas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u114	Mr President! I understand from the news this weekend that neither the Prime Minister nor the Finance Minister were able to trace properly what this surplus in the state treasury is really about. It just occurred to me when I read last week that it was a surprise to thousands of entrepreneurs that 12 tax refunds were already being used. the tax due on 1 November, even if the company had paid the tax on the day of payment, and the amount of the tax refund could therefore be much lower than expected. According to the Tax Administration, the case concerned some 22,000 business customers. Now I do not know what the median figure might be for these companies, but I remember that, at least in my own time as an entrepreneur, they could be tens of thousands of euros, and I suddenly calculated that if such a median figure was 20,000 per company, that is, alvia and other social security contributions, it would already be EUR 560 million. That how much does this now affect this cash-flow situation, that the taxpayer has, as it were, taken taxes prematurely from certain companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u115	Mr President! The budget is a big policy for economic policy, but it is also important decisions relating to people's everyday lives. In the midst of strong economic growth, the government continues to cut basic security. It's a sad fact. I am particularly surprised that there is still a cut in the budget for our war veterans' brooch. I find that shocking. It is said that it is only a few euros a year, but this, if anything, is a question of justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u116	Madam President! I do not remember the exact words, but the group speaker of the SDP, Mrs Harakka, said that this is a tired and inaccessible government. [TimoHaraka’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u117	Mr President! This is where the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalli, told us that it had not been correctly put forward in committee that there was an accident at work which apparently happened to the committee as a whole, but it is desirable that the government should consider whether there is a way of dealing with this matter. It is certainly not up to the city centre, so hopefully this can be dealt with. But, Mr President, how the government has managed to deal with the major issues of economic policy, that is the first thing we should talk about. Even small ones are important, and I will not belittle it at all, but let us remember that our country's economic growth has been raised from the top of Europe to the top of Europe, employment has been raised to a higher level, employment has been higher than for many ten years in this country, and debt, which started at high levels of debt, has been brought under control even after years of debt reduction. There are many people who can blame the government, and you did, but if you look at these big lines, then the results, Mr President, are quite strong.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u118	Madam President! First of all, this front man supplement. As the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalli, pointed out, our view is that it would need a legislative amendment, but in the early part of the year this issue can be dealt with in one way or another, and the blue ones are certainly prepared for it. With regard to driving, it must be said that this report by the Ministry of Transport and Communications on climate change is totally unrealistic, over-optimistic. What should be done and what the demars have been against all along is precisely the reduction of the car tax, which will eventually be completely abolished. Less taxes, more cars, and strangely, when those cars release less, emissions will also decrease. This is a blue line that should move forward. In its alternative budget, the SDP claimed that you would take more than EUR 500 million less debt than the government budget. Well, if you add up your budget initiatives, the total will be EUR 1.7 billion less.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u122	Mr President! It is precisely in a situation of high economic conditions, in which employment is increasing, that the economy is growing, in which we have heard that, due to one-off items, the government's debt will be reduced this year, even in this situation, that the government will continue to cut all basic security benefits, including the pensions of veterans. Mr Kaikkonen and Mr Elo, this matter was put to the vote last Wednesday and this section, the surgery, was blessed by the government parties at first reading. And now that you have woken up to the fact that this can be corrected, I have a proposal for you. Today the matter is at second reading here on the list — let us vote together for this government cut-off, the veterans will receive full-cost-linked pensions. This would be
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u123	Mr President! Olavi Ala-Nissilä, downtown, said that there was no need to paint black in white, and then he did just that and said, among other things, that we need to continue to improve basic security. But, ladies and gentlemen of the centre, you have weakened basic security throughout this parliamentary term and will weaken even further next year, when cuts to low incomes will continue despite the fact that the economic and employment situation has improved. This also applies to the breast dishes, which are tied to the exact same law, with which you also cut social benefits for the low-income unemployed, national pensioners and families with children. So this is not an accident at work, it is an indication of the line you have consistently followed through this parliamentary term, on which we voted last week and on which we will be voting again during this week, so you still have the opportunity to correct the line in this respect. If this is rejected, the cost impact next year will be 69 million. 69 million —
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u124	Mr President! The government has taken a shot at climate policy. It will lead to more Chinese production and more emissions. True Finns understand that energy and climate policy must support employment and economic growth and not hinder them. The competitiveness of our energy-intensive export sector must be safeguarded by reducing energy taxation: electricity and other energy taxes must be reduced to the minimum level in the EU. I would also like to take statistics and figures at this stage. All emissions from passenger car traffic in Finland are 0.15 per mil of global emissions. Why is the government harassing an ordinary person who has a normal car and for whom it is necessary, with constant increases in petrol and diesel prices — and constant increases in housing costs?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u125	Mr President! It was great to hear both the Minister of Finance's reply and most of the group's comments about our common climate. It is quite clear that we must make an ambitious policy to keep global warming at 1.5 degrees, and it is good that this government has decided to ban coal. But we have to do more, and it is quite clear that business subsidies must be cleaned up. At the moment, we are giving fossil energy three times as much tax subsidies as renewable energy, and this relationship is quite wrong. We need to change the business support policy so that it encourages low-carbon activities, it helps in the energy transition. I would also like to ask how this government forgot to use taxation as a means of steering consumption. The air tax, which is widely supported by Finns, is not included in the package, nor is the plastic tax, although the government said at the beginning of the year that it will return to this in the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u126	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! I'm worried about the big picture of the economy. It was wonderful that we heard this weekend that the government is now able and that Finland can, for the first time in ten years, reduce national debt, and that is extremely welcome news.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u129	Mr President! When I listened to the Centre's group speech here, I came to the conclusion that now apparently the Centre is voting in favour of the SDP's alternative budget — so beautiful words came out of it, among other things, with regard to pensioners — but unfortunately, President, it has happened that the speech does not carry when the finger goes here on the button and is voted on. Last Wednesday, here, government parties voted in favour of, among other things, the cut in the breast dishes, the cut in pensions, the cuts in people on low incomes — you voted in favour, ladies and gentlemen. On Monday, a long discussion took place in the Chamber. I was very sorry that the chairman of the parliamentary group also said that no one has presented this. This issue was discussed here for a very long time, and the Social Democrats were shocked that, in this growing economic situation, these brutal cuts will continue. The law is still in the parliament. There's a possibility of a wreck. There's a second reading today. Please redeem your speech, representatives of the government parties and the centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u130	Madam President! It should be pointed out once again to the opposition that index freezes do not mean cuts in benefits in euros. Now, check your ideas. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u131	Mr President! Everyone here has spoken in favour of inclusive growth in group speeches, and it is really important that the benefits of economic growth are more widely distributed. We know, for example, what has happened in France. What has been achieved here — 115,000 more people are working, which means that many families have benefited from it. A significant proportion of these are self-employed self-employed entrepreneurs. Some of them are currently employed by others. In this way they have contributed to the benefit of this economy. What kind of reward does the SDP want to give to these people, therefore, who have employed themselves and perhaps even employed others? Entrepreneur's deduction out. That's the reward you want to give those people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u134	Mr President! Now the government would have had the last chance to correct the social errors that are reflected in poverty and exclusion. We have over 100,000 children living in poverty. The care of the elderly is in many respects in crisis. However, the government has not made its direction more social and fairer. Is it right for a sick, low-income person to become increasingly cramped because of the unreasonableness of the share of sickness costs? We don't think so. Mr President! The cost of living is unreasonable. For example, in order to reduce the price of electricity transmission, the government has done nothing. Why? Amongst these index cuts or freezes, it should be noted to Mr Paloniemi that they represent a reduction in purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u137	Madam President! There is great confusion about how the government has attacked the small and the underprivileged with anger and power. Students, unemployed persons, families with children or pensioners have not been spared surgery. One might say that there has been enough manna to be distributed to one's own interest groups, but whenever it comes to improving the position of the minor and the disadvantaged, one can say that the Siberian Sipilä is hatched from Prime Minister Sipilä, from which the fruits of growth are not enough for all. Mr Ala-Nissilä and Mr Satonen then asked questions about the SDP's entrepreneurship package. Yes, we have measures to improve the position of entrepreneurs. We have proposed lowering the threshold for employment so that the entrepreneur can reduce the wage costs of the first external worker, raising the VAT threshold to EUR 30000 and the employment voucher for entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs will certainly welcome these performances with joy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u138	Mr President! With regard to climate policy for the Greens and Left Alliance: your only action last season on climate policy was to reduce the tax on coal, and that was the opposite of climate policy. The results of the Sipilä Government are excellent in terms of the economy and employment, and if we had continued the policy of the previous government as the SDP Finance Minister's Party, we would be in the way of Greece. Competitiveness was lost, economic growth was negative, in debt of between EUR 6 billion and EUR 7 billion per year. The situation would be that the future government would then have to cut even more. But now that we have managed the economic balance in a responsible way and improved competitiveness, we have been given a completely different basis for the new government to take action. Let us hope that these election promises in the run-up to the elections will not eat up that good foundation of the economy, but there is a great danger: when you follow the magazines in every province, you promise all the good things to everyone, and when you add it together... Just as your budget proposal contains 1.7 billion additional debt in the form of initiatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u139	Mr President! It is strange, however, to listen to the contributions made by the representatives of the Central Party in this debate on the subject of war veterans. It is incomprehensible that it is not understood that this government proposal means that the purchasing power of these people will be weakened. I really would ask you to go along with this, Mr Lindtman. Minister Orpo, I listened carefully to your message to pensioners, the unemployed, families with children and students. I didn't hear anything. I did not hear any message to these people who are out of work and for whom inequality and poverty in Finnish society have increased. You'll understand when you look at this yellow book of yours. It's a cold, hard ride for these crowds. I really hope that from a future perspective you will think very carefully about these issues, because there is now a need to build on future investment throughout the 2030s. We need investment, investment in education, family leave. Let's go there and get the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u140	Madam President! Minister Orpo, you said that this year we will not live on our children's debt reduction. This is the case in euro. Then, here in the Chamber, we hear speeches calling for more cars, demanding lower taxes on pollution and even suggesting that emissions from Finland and Finns, or reducing them, do not matter at all. However, is it not the case, Mr Government and the opposition, that emissions from 5.5 million Finns have at least the same weight and, in fact, the carbon footprint, measured per capita, far greater weight than emissions from, say, 5.5 million Indian, Chinese or any African citizen? Would it not be responsible and honest to admit, despite the unpleasant truth, that we are growing climate debt and debt from over-consumption of natural resources every day, including next year? It's off our kids. That is something that we must correct, and that is something that we must take care of and take responsibility for.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u141	Thank you. — Mr Jaskari and then two ministerial speeches. - Here you go. — Then we go on again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u142	Mr President! Just now, Mr Rinne said that nothing has been promised to the unemployed. What if there were jobs? That could be a pretty good promise, 115,000 jobs — [Heckling] Now that you have followed this rhetoric of the left, it has been said and referred to Outi Ojala, for example,that ‘the best friend of the economy of the strong state’ — I am positive in terms of the state’s economy — when you announced that 2 billion people have come to surprise,distributed,and in the first year,the situation is much weaker. What kind of strong government finances is this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u143	Let us take another step in this direction, Mr Essayah, then the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Although we can now enjoy a momentary break in debt, the Ministry of Finance’s assessment of the future sustainability gap, which is increasing due to these age-related expenditures and also, unfortunately, due to the deteriorating economic growth and also the low birth rate, is almost 4% of GDP. In that sense, if we look at this economic policy, which has cut off families with children, and then also older people, we must say that we are thinking: it has been short-sighted. Would it not be extremely important to invest in the fact that we have faith in the future in Finland, that we have more birth rates, that we have more people of working age? Now would be the time to cancel the child supplement freezes, now would be the time to return the child deduction to taxation, to create that belief for young people that they want to set up families so that we will have our taxpayers in the future so that we can have ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u145	And now the promised ministerial speeches — first three minutes for the Finance Minister and then three minutes for the Minister for Labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u146	Mr President! I'll take this war veteran thing first. Government parliamentary groups and government groups have discussed and this small but symbolically very big thing is being corrected in one way or another. [Heckling] Minister Mattila has worked it out and worked it out. I'm sure he'll answer that question. [Heckling] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rinne, do you really not see any good in this economic development, 120,000 jobs, job opportunities for the unemployed, in the hope of a future? I don't understand why you have to be such a troublemaker.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u147	That is enough for now, Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u148	Mr President! I am very pleased that the opposition can be influenced. Since September, we have been talking about this extra war veteran issue, and now we have found the right place to make a difference. Thank you for that, Minister Orphan. Thank you for that, government parties. Mr Orpo, you have just said that I find nothing good about employment. Yes, I can find good in terms of employment growth, and I can find good in terms of economic growth. What you have done, however, is a hard and unequal policy in relation to the situation of the unemployed. During this term of government, you have cut 100 days of unemployment security, you have put an active model cutter on the unemployed, you have cut holiday money from employees, you have cut holiday money from active, hard-working people, public workers. This is the policy we criticise in your policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u149	And now, Minister of Labour, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u150	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to answer Mr Heinonen's question about this conversion and further training, namely how quickly it will deal with this shortage of experts. Well, at its fastest it is months, but for example if a person has a university degree in technology or a university degree in engineering or a university degree in engineering, then now that the master of construction is 3.5 years old, it goes now in 2 years. This is an example of how fast this bites. Not for the moment and for the moment, but these measures have been initiated, a very important thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the clearest parties on this particular theme are the government, on the one hand, and the parliamentary group of the SDP and the parliamentary group of the Left Alliance, on the other. That is why I will give Mr Andersson and Mr Rinne first a reply and then move on to other matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u154	Mr President! A strong state economy is the poor's best friend. What does that mean? This means that when the economy is doing well, it should also be visible in the everyday lives of the lowest-income Finns. What is the policy of this government? It's that it was raining or frying, all the low-income ones are being cut. And it is not enough to answer the question of improving employment. For example, what do you say to all those low-income pensioners whose financial position has been weakened by index freezes on national pensions throughout this parliamentary term? Mr Jaskari, I think there is every reason to reduce the debt in the upturn. Instead, our criticism has been that even part of the margin of one and a half billion that this government has spent on tax reductions — and also on those who favour high incomes — should have been used to ensure that also:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u155	Mr President! Minister Orpo, I said that I listened carefully to your speech and that was a very clear message to these groups who are out of work, that is, to those who have not been able to work, to pensioners, to students, to families with children from one of the parents. You, Minister Orpo, have made a hard and cold policy from the point of view of these people throughout this parliamentary term. I would have expected, now that the economy is well on track, as employment improves, that, in this situation, these things would have gone in a slightly more humane direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u159	Reply, Congressman Kivelä. The ministers will have it in a while, but not yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u160	President! Yes, the chairman of the Left Alliance speaks with good intentions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u163	Mr President! As I pointed out in my group statement, non-participation is a problem in society. We see — and that is the problem — that Europe is now being cancelled. France cancels, Italy cancels, the United States cancels, even in Russia, the pension reform is cancelled, and it is not able to bring about reforms that can safeguard welfare. I have always wanted to say to the chairman of the Left Alliance, referring to Venezuela: there was left-wing debt populism in power.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u168	Mr President! I have to say that I am rather disappointed when I am used to appreciating Minister Orpo, but now he did speak out in complete nonsense when he said that someone on the left was handing out these 2 billion dollars of wind money. No, no, no. If we compare the state budget with the SDP's alternative budget, then at the same time we have a fairer line and at the same time a more financially responsible line, and on the contrary we have demanded this. Unfortunately, however, you have learned bad habits from your predecessor, Minister Stubb, who used to list the expenditure side of the SDP's alternative budget, as the less important people here have also done, without taking into account the income.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u169	Mr President! I'm surprised that Rinte and the SDP are fighting, and I'm surprised to hear that. The unemployed want jobs, and fortunately this is what they have been getting this season. The options of the SDP are also completely impossible: Sitra is again being robbed, the Finnish Bank’s vaults are being emptied again, and the hands are in the pockets of children or at least others. This is not the way this country can proceed. I'm afraid if this demarination goes through in the spring and you still succeed after these speeches in the election. Indeed, we are not prepared for a new recession or, on the other hand, for the Greens' proposal which would once again increase unemployment in this country to turn good employment growth back on the path to unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u173	Irade the Talman! It is of course the case that the economic situation is now better than it was three years ago, and it also applies to employment, and some of the thanks are also due to the government, although we would have made different priorities. At the same time, it should be noted that unemployment is still high and, above all, structural unemployment is approaching 7%. This is extremely worrying in a situation where we can expect growth to deteriorate. In Uusimaa alone, one third of enterprises suffer from labour shortages, as much as half of them. I therefore ask the government: when these structural reforms have clearly not been completed — there has been no local agreement, we have not received parental leave reform, there is still a need test and, for example, there has been no progress in combined insurance — why is that? Is this due to an ideological imbalance within the government, or is there another reason?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u174	At this stage in the debate, I will give my answer to the representatives of Heinäluoma, Uotila, Mikkonen, and then Minister Terholla for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u175	Mr President! However, this basic security issue is quite important, and I think it is well known to every representative. And I suppose people ask you the same question as they ask me, ‘ What is the reason why basic security is still being cut, even though the good news of the economy is being told? ’ It is very difficult to explain, and I do not think that we can manage by the explanation by the representative of the centre, Mr Paloniemi, that this is not a cut when only indices are frozen when it means that purchasing power is being cut and that impact will be permanent in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u180	Mr President! In fact, Mr Jaskari attacked the left-wing union's group statement by saying that I would have said that we would immediately split EUR 2 billion, the amount that has now suddenly appeared in the treasury of the state. I didn't say that. I said that despite the sudden increase in the state treasury at the end of the year of the year, the government is not in favour of cancelling these index freezes. It would mean 300 million in terms of the electoral period, but 68 million in terms of next year, and that is what we are referring to, it is still possible to change that at second reading. It is quite a small fraction of the 2 billion if we give 68 million of all the disadvantaged to next year by abstaining from index cuts for these minimum benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u181	Secretary Terho, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u182	Mr President, Parliament! Here again, the same debate is taking place on the same cuts that were decided at the beginning of the parliamentary term. We have heard these same comments now several times. Every time, it's the same story. The opposition accuses us of the same things that you yourself were forced to do during the previous parliamentary term, such as cuts in education and others that hit low incomes or otherwise are unfortunate political decisions to make. Of course it is the task of the opposition, but this theatre is very boring in such a time when it repeats over and over again. The True Finns even accuse us of the cuts that they accepted at the time when they approved the government program.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u185	Mr President! It'll be great if the war veterans' breast dishes are canceled, but, good government, you forgot the garrisons. You have forgotten them, and I ask you, Mr Petteri Orpo, what is your answer to the fact that the garrison is currently completely free of additional insurance until the end of the year? They do not have any additional insurance cover until the end of the year. We still have a few weeks before the year changes, namely the additional insurance cover will not come into effect until 1 January 2019. So what do you answer them? If my son were in the army now, I would give my mother's order and say that now get out of that army and go back next year when the insurance cover is in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u188	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma himself rightly asked for the views of the government groups. I must say that the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, was also responsible for his duties, i.e. the governments see the way in which this can be corrected and, in one way or another, the way in which it is done, and Mr Mattila, the way in which things are now being clarified. Instead, one must wonder about Mr Juvo, who is sitting on the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. When Mr Kaikkonen said that there has been an accident at work in the Committee on Budgets, [ Mr Juvonen asks for the reply] Then there's this index freeze question. I understand that in their alternative budget, the Social Democrats are not now proposing the abolition of index freezes for the whole of this parliamentary term — you proposed for 2019 — but Mr Kankaanniemi, who criticised index freezes for next year, you are not even proposing the abolition of index freezes for next year in your alternative budget. This is a very special line.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u189	Mr President! We must now correct Mr Terho's statements in this Chamber, which were inaccurate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u194	Mr President! Firstly, I say to the opposition that it is not always worth trying to maximise political benefits. I believe that it has been possible here in Parliament for years to deal with veterans' affairs jointly by the opposition and the government. The chairman of the largest party parliamentary group has always been the first to put a name on the initiative to improve the affairs of veterans. It is now truly repugnant that we should start to maximise the political benefits of the veterans' cause. It has been said here from the government and from the government groups that this technical error, which took place in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health under the leadership of President Kiuru, will now be corrected in the early part of the year when this index issue will be put right, that is to say, more than 80 cents a month for veterans, but the way in which you act — you are taking these veterans’ affairs at the top of the political agenda — is frankly repugnant. I believe that the viewers who watch this on TV, the children of veterans and grandchildren, think that how such an opposition collapses, such an understatement of politics.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u195	Mr President! We have to fix it now. Firstly, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, there are no veteran cuts or front cuts and they are not an accident, but the basis of the government's proposal. And the second thing that needs to be corrected is that social democrats are accused of having index cuts made only for this year. We have done them systematically every single year, and every year in this Parliament we have lost those votes. And the fact that we in the committee jointly took a legislative initiative on the institutionalisation of the war-qualified and the reduction of the degree of disadvantage was a positive message for the war-qualified and veterans in general. In our view, it is corny that, at the same time, the government parties are proposing an adjunct cut when we have all, in agreement, made proposals for the benefit of the veterans of the front.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u196	Mr President! One question that very little can be seen in this debate is the extensive cuts that the government has made in terms of science and research. They're feeding on the potential of our future. We need new strong industries in Finland, and we have traditionally had a strong forest industry, metal, machinery, electronics, but if we compare it with Sweden, there is a much more diverse industrial structure. And it's research that creates a strong foundation for all this. In particular, research to combat climate change and innovation should be supported. If the world warms up even two degrees, the corals will disappear and Greenland will melt, living conditions will also be significantly reduced here in Finland. You have operated on families with children, the poor, the weaker, the unemployed, and at the same time you have eaten the seed potatoes of the future. You don't have a sustainable line.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u197	Mr President! I would like to return to Mr Andersson's comment that there should have been a clear change in the focus of, for example, the ve-ron reduction, so that those on average or on higher incomes would not have had any tax reductions of any kind. If we look at the situation where these jobs have been created and what has contributed to that policy, then for those on lower incomes those tax cuts have had a clear effect that it has been more profitable to take a job, and much more must be done to achieve that every working day is encouraging. I mean, middle-incomers already have world record taxes. We must make our future policy that middle-income people who work should have a lower tax level, that work should be done. And the problem for those with higher incomes is that they go very much to the world, some 1,500 highly educated people as a net have already gone to the world. It must also be thought that for them the situation would be that they would not pay more than half the tax in their entirety.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u198	And the reply to the representatives of Huhtasaari, Henriksson and Heikkinen at this stage of the debate and then to the Minister of Finance for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u199	Mr President! I am sure we all agree that we must monitor people's standard of living, that purchasing power will be maintained for those on low incomes. In the opinion of the Finns Party, the solution is to reduce the cost of living and moving. There is also a need for individual measures, such as support for informal care for duty-free and the elimination of drug ownership from low incomes. But I still want to bring climate policy to this debate because other parties lack climate realism. When we think that Finland accounts for only 0.1% of global CO2 emissions, then it is true that we can set a good example, but with too ambitious decisions we drive industry to countries where fossil energy is used. And, Mr Halmemenpää, you know that the distances in Finland are the longest in the EU and our climate is the coldest in the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u200	Mr President! Mr Huhtasaari's speech speaks a lot about the attitude of the Finns to this serious climate situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u203	Mr President! I am not the only Member of Parliament in this Chamber who, during this debate, has received more than one message that it is repugnant to talk past and deliberate misunderstanding of matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u206	Now, Mr President-in-Office, let us try to keep to the timetable. — — — — With regard to what has just been said, I would like to give Mr Lindtman a reply before the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u207	Mr President! It has to be said at the outset that it is quite exceptional for the Minister of Government to describe the debate in Parliament as a theatre, [Department : Just! — Parliament: Just like this!] And, representatives of Rantakangas, Heikkinen and Elo, it's not about any accident at work. Since the government parties in the committee did not want to put this matter in order, unlike the previous year, the opposition had been forced to protest, which in fact states that a particularly grotesque government policy of cutting is the targeting of freezings on front and veterans. That is what we voted on Wednesday and that is what we will vote on tomorrow Tuesday.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u209	And now Minister — Minister of Finance, apparently. Two minutes, preferably on site.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u210	Mr President! Once again, the group chairman of the main government party, Mr Kaikkonen, went to tell us that they have agreed between the political groups that solutions should be sought and that Mr Mattila is preparing for this. So we're picking this up. I would like to remind you that we have reached a truly large and significant, just solution of tens of millions. [ Interim calls from the groups of the Centre Party and the Coalition Party]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u213	Mr President! Minister Orpo, I am sure we have a broadly shared view of this economic situation at the moment, but what I am concerned about for the future is that your proposals are completely lacking in future-oriented investment, those who pay for themselves but who are necessary to make it possible for Finland to survive in the 2030s. It is, in fact, irresponsible not to carry out these reforms. You yourself have spoken in favour of early childhood education being free of charge, you have felt that it is an important issue for young children to start the learning path in the right way. We have suggested that secondary education should be free of charge, so that no young Finn would actually be excluded from its new primary level, i.e. the completion of a secondary degree. We have called for a rapid reform of family leave to bring young women's careers into line with those of young men and to manage wage equality, but in particular employment, for the coming decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u214	I am not going to give the floor at this stage, Minister. Every time there comes a new plot in the middle of the current debate, it is not something that will happen. Always one theme to finish as far as possible, and then move on to the next.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u215	Mr President! Here, in particular, opposition Li Andersson is constantly listing the things that have been done, the severe cuts, but nothing has been replaced. However, I would now like to remind you that, for example, the taxation of low-income pensioners, families, the unemployed, employees will be reduced next year when the basic reduction in municipal taxation is increased. The lowest daily allowance will rise by EUR 80, but you will normally leave nothing to mention — the 64 cents is more important to you. And the family's help will be increased in the municipalities. [Li Andersson requests reply]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u216	Mr President! I, too, find it somewhat unusual that the Minister of Culture here calls the most important parliamentary debate of the year a theatre. This is not a theatre, this is a policy of directing the revenue and expenditure of the state next year, and this is absolutely true. The economy is really doing better than it has been for a long time, but at the same time you, the good government, are making a cold and very hard policy. You share this growth very unfairly. The bread queues are growing, and people are anxiously turning to charitable organizations, but at the same time you are cutting off all basic security for the most vulnerable. And now, here in the Chamber, the representatives of the governments are disparaging these fundamental security cuts. I really hope that these index freezes and fundamental security cuts will not be ignored again. For many people, these are real surgeries and severe surgeries. President! I am pleased that, during this debate, the government has now woken up to canceling the index freeze on the war veteran front, but at the same time I would like the government to be able to correct this whole package in this context and cancel all the low-income index cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u217	Mr President! When you have been here for quite a long time, I understand that Mr Terho's speech may even be regarded as offensive in some respects, but there was quite a lot to say in that speech. I have to say it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u220	I think I can see, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government's forces are slightly thinning down in that box, but let us continue this debate for perhaps half an hour, perhaps a little more.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u221	Mr President! When Minister Terho listened to what he said, he could not help but think that it was a speech by a totally bored and frustrated government. The lunches were simply finished. In fact, it was only unintentionally the representative who went further. A stone indicating that the government has a ‘official truth’. I think that's what the law doesn't define. The citizens have the other truth, and even this budget is no good for the poor in this country as a Christmas gift. The unfair line continues, index cuts continue. President! To the big picture of the economy: I am not going to argue whether a favourable economy is the result of an export market bet or of a stimulating monetary policy by the ECB. In any case, this monetary policy of the European Central Bank has helped Finland, but now the purchase programme is over, and it is possible that interest will rise next spring, and, Minister of Finance, we should be prepared for the future. Just as President Rinne said here: where are the investments in the future? The SDP offers family leave reform, and we offer investment in training. Are you ready to take this line of the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u222	Mr President! It would be a big mistake to have a front man cut, and it would be very good if this were to be corrected. There's a lot of talk here about veterans of our wars and ovalites of war. Our veterans are still alive, 11500 invalids 2000. I would point out that since 2011, when I came to Parliament, I have noticed that every year veteran organisations come to ask for more money because it has not been given enough to get everything done properly for our veterans. I wonder why these things have not been corrected by previous governments and also by the last government. Now, of course, it is good to do it because there are so few left. More could have been done, and now nothing can be done about it, but the Finns of Peru are definitely behind everything that can be done for them from now on, and I hope that the government will do everything possible. And the next government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u224	Mr President! For example, it is quite shocking to listen to statements made by the leader of the demos, Antti Rinte, for example, on the use of forests. After all, he introduced this model of slope in Savo, where the fellings would have been interrupted, and the message came to such a country that they are planning a major investment, as was the case in North Karelia. Forested Finland is known for this model of Rinne, that logging stops and machines at home, and it is also a statement, but now everyone has to know that too, as well as green environmental policy and climate policy. First, small cars drive trees cut to the side of the road, then load them into larger ones and then make a profit in this country. Yes, I have to say that Christmas seems to have crept into my mind a little earlier than I thought, but it would be a good thing for this house to get a little serious. For once, we have the opportunity to do new work in this country, and remember, ladies and gentlemen, as the logging activity in forests progresses, it will have an immediate impact on the chemical industry, the metal industry, the electronics industry. The whole industry is doing well, and according to the model of the Ringe, you are going to put a few bars on the wheel and inform the choirmen that you do not need a factory, nor do you need a factory in North Karelia.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u225	Mr President! I would like to return to the big picture of this budget and, in fact, of the economy of this government and of the parliamentary term. When the demars here, under the leadership of their chairman, Antti Rinte, said that the unemployed have received nothing, I am sure that this is the ideological difference between the demarcation and the coalition: the Demares think that the unemployed are getting something when unemployment benefits are improved. The Coalition Party thinks that the unemployed get something when they get to work. If more than 100,000 jobs have come during this parliamentary term, how can you claim that the unemployed have received nothing? The opposition also says that the poor have received nothing. I am referring to what has been said here about lower daily allowances and guaranteed pensions, but I am still talking about these jobs. Families with unemployment are often poor families. After all, when work has been done, the financial situation of these families has improved considerably. I do not understand that they are exaggerating these over 100,000 jobs as if it had no effect on the situation of the poor, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u226	Mr President! I return, Mr Orpo, to your commendable comment on the fight against climate change and the fact that Finland can be bigger than it is. I believe that this is a good objective, and one of the most important reasons, of course, is that we want to be able to benefit from it internationally, and we, as a country of high education, are well placed to do so. We are certainly all of the opinion that more needs to be invested in education and training in the future. It has already been cut quite a bit in the course of a couple of governments, and most recently, for example, the Government's report on the future of education and the information policy report stressed the importance of education. I would hope that, even if the government term is nearing its end, you will bring up in the government the option of looking beyond the sectoral and ministerial boundaries, which we could use by making a good long-term education policy to promote Finland's potential, for example, in cleantech and as a state of high technology in general. I believe that this would help us in our climate objectives, which, as we are well aware, have become stricter as knowledge increases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u227	When the name of the representative of the SDP's parliamentary group was most frequently mentioned, I will give him an answer from many of the applicants.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Zyskowicz, these people you are talking about are not the same people I am talking about. I'm talking about people who haven't got a job. These people have had 100 days of unemployment benefit cut, and these people have had an active model cut it by 5 percentage points. These are the people I'm talking about. You see, people are in bad shape after your government. The same applies to pensioners who cannot even improve their own financial situation through their work. The same applies to families with children, for whom you made a special tax during this parliamentary term. Mr Hoskonen, I now say clearly to you and ask you to take the message forward so that you do not spread the wrong speech: the position of the SDP on forest felling is to beat as much as the soul tolerates, as long as it is done from the climate perspective in the right way. We have carbon dioxide emissions and we have carbon sinks that need to be balanced. The SDP wants to conduct a responsible climate policy and is certainly in favour of new projects for the forestry industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u230	Mr President! When the pensioners have been raised, of course, the lowest-income pensioners are guaranteed pensioners. It must be noted that taking into account the level increases, the amount of the guarantee pension would be about EUR 18 higher in 2019 now with these solutions, what this government has done — i.e. increased EUR 40 — as if it had been through an index to increase the guarantee pension. If you are under a line, you should also look at it in the case of guaranteed pensioners. On the other hand, it has been raised whether Mr Terho's speech is correct in the view of the opposition. A year ago, in protest of this budgetary debate, the SDP said: “Achieving the employment objective would clearly require a more active policy to And this government was lacking here and now. During this year, over the last 18 months, employment has risen to over 115,000 more jobs and yet, in a theatrical way, it is still claimed that nothing has been done for the unemployed. I don't blame you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u231	Mr President! There have been many speeches in this Chamber today on the issue of child poverty. The speech of the central parliamentary group also referred to the poverty of families with children, but unfortunately mere speeches and promises do not bring relief to families' everyday lives or bread to the table. Instead of even trying to eliminate poverty or improve the position of families with children, the government has cut child allowances, reduced social security for the lowest-income families, limited the child’s right to day care, and despoiled the employee’s position in the form of, for example, kiky surgery. We know that poverty is inherited, that poverty is marginalized and that poverty is causing a great deal of harm, especially in the life of a child. Here, however, government parties are now also saluting the situation of poor families with children. We have to ask you, good government, why you did not cancel index cuts for this year and next year now that the Finnish economy has even been on such a good growth path that even a reduction in central government debt has been possible. Why are over 100,000 children still living in poverty in Finland? What is the government’s Christmas gift to these low - income families?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u232	Mr President! The government’s gifts have been as follows: the group sizes of day care have been reduced, 6700 families have been completely exempted from the early childhood education fee, the lowest daily allowances, maternity, paternity and sickness allowances, increased by EUR 80. I think that when you ask them whether you would rather take an index increase of EUR 80 or a few euros, they would certainly prefer an increase of EUR 80. In addition, school book purchases will be supported by EUR 47. This and much more has already been promised and done to the families. But I am most concerned that now it seems that in the future we will no longer achieve growth when entrepreneurs are deprived of their potential for growth. I will come back to this in more detail in my speech, but I think this is a very worrying line, and I would like the SDP to think very carefully about whether or not it wants to support small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u234	Mr President! I want to correct Mr Kalmar to the extent that this government has indeed increased the group sizes of early childhood education. It was part of the cut-off package made at the beginning of the parliamentary term for early childhood education, which thus limited the subjective right to day care and increased this ratio in groups over the age of three. Similarly, with regard to these social security contributions, once again, an increase in the guarantee pension is a good thing. The number of guaranteed pension recipients in Finland is slightly higher than 100,000. And how many people are receiving national pensions in Finland? Over 570,000 people. This is precisely the problem when the government here boasts of small investments, which are in themselves important, and which are being spent on small sums compared to the hundreds of millions that you have cut off from social security on the one hand and from the lowest incomes on the other. This balance will not change. You can't make black white, no matter how much downtown people try.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u235	Mr President! It is understandable that the Minister of Culture even talks about theatre here, but I may not have been offended at this time, but I was surprised that he used the term ‘the theatre’ in Parliament. It is a disgrace to democracy and to this system that this is happening at ministerial level. Mr President! The fundamental Finns' objection is number 6 here in the report of the Committee on Finance. It is a long and thorough one, and it contains our clear alternative, which is certainly better and clearer in terms of social, regional and human rights than we have in the committee's report on the basis of this debate. It is particularly important that we remember the families of children I mentioned earlier, children living in poverty and pensioners and veterans of war in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u236	Mr President! I myself would like to say a few words about climate policy, because it is a rather difficult issue to deal with. We all know that each Member State, and more globally, must bear the responsibility, but our share of global emissions is 0.1%, in practice very easily driven into a situation where our influence is small, but we will take all the consequences of what is happening in India, China and Africa. Now, in my opinion, from this climate debate, it has clearly been because we blame the forest industry, our forestry, we blame Finnish agriculture quite clearly, there is Veikkauskin already, we blame the motorists when you can't drive petrol cars, when you can't drive diesel cars. In my opinion, there must be some kind of everyday realism here, and this is an international zero-sum game, so that if we deny anything here in relation to the forestry industry or agricultural production, then that production will be transferred abroad. No one's gonna win.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u237	Mr President! There have been calls for future contributions. It might be thought that more than 100,000 people who have been able to work are making the greatest future contributions in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u242	Mr President! In a few speeches, climate policy has been discussed here in the sense that it is a very large expense for us. I believe that it is an opportunity for us to respond to the cry that is currently testing the earth. Finland has expertise. We must use that knowledge to develop production in a climate-friendly way, because it is in demand in the world. The fact that we go into the past and seek solutions from the past does not help either the Finnish industry or the Finnish economy. We need to find a solution for the future, and then we are looking for solutions that benefit precisely from the fact that the earth does not warm up any more than it can carry, or not more than 1.5 degrees.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u243	I would also like to give the floor to the representatives of the groups, Mr Kiuru and Mr Laukkanen, and after them, to give one minute's speaking time to all those who have spoken in the group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u244	Mr President! Representative Myller needed responsibility and investment in climate policy. I ask you: why are you attacking Sitra, who is investigating climate policy, climate change, circular economy and sustainable development? Why do you want to attack the research and development that they do? The objective that we have is to obtain exports, exports that are sustainable from a climate point of view. Then I say that this government has made a very positive policy for the climate. We have a budget for sustainable development here. This is quite unique, and it will be asked from abroad and seen how it is done. There is still a lot of development in it, but we are on the right track. I would like to ask Minister Orpo when this report from the Committee on Finance talks about large infrastructure projects and says that it is difficult to get these railway projects into the budget, talk about the project companies, how realistic they are, with what timetable, whether pension companies will be involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u245	Mr President! As a whole, we have quite a lot to be glad to see that we are living in a booming season. Although it is gradually settling down, it will not look so bad next year, and I think that this is far too little highlighted in this debate. It is true that we have interlocutor groups that do not benefit greatly from this increase in employment, and we should be able to help these groups together. However, it is a fact that if employment and growth in the national economy are not created, then there will be no division of resources. There is no way to take care of these who are now not benefiting from this growth. Only raising basic security, making it clear, will help these people. And I am calling for a debate here which is constructive and credible and also creates the hope for those young people who are looking at this to be able to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u246	And a round of responses for all those who have spoken in the group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u247	Mr President! Indeed, when a person gets a job, he or she is ten times less at risk of being excluded than the unemployed. When a person gets a job, the income of families increases by an average of EUR 1000. Of course it matters. [Left: Of course!] I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we still have the flat-rate taxes and the solidarity tax. We in this budget, too, are reducing the tax burden on low-income people by raising the pension income reduction, by improving the basic deduction, including the table amendments. That is what the opposition forgets. Mr President! I hope that in the sectional debate we will really talk about this funding for transport, which was mentioned here. That is what we need to get right now, that we are able to invest in transport, because, in terms of regional development, transport is more important for living and entrepreneurship than ever.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u248	Mr President! There I received the message that there was some fighting in the parliament, that you rather look for solutions and do not quarrel. I agree. The government is actually achieving all these fiscal objectives, and the employment rate will rise to 72.4% next year. That was the aim, but the bar has already been raised to 75 by the Minister for Finance and also by the Prime Minister and even said that we must go ahead with it. There has also been talk here about the fact that 110,000 people in Finland have been employed and the situation in their families is much better, but at the same time there are still quite a lot of unemployed people, and they need to be caught up in the work. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, when you as a whole are looking for solutions rather than for those problems: what are your medicines to get us into that 75% employment rate and to be able to take steps forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u249	Mr President! This has been a very lively debate where, unfortunately, the future has not been discussed as much as perhaps the Social Democrats would have liked, but is always stuck in the past. Of course, a small point of light in this debate has been the fact that the government parties have apparently now promised to remedy this further problem, and perhaps that now proves that the opposition can also be influenced. President! In my group speech, I criticised the government for the lack of future reforms and the necessary future investment in growth and employment in the 2020s in this budget for next year, and in fact Mr Kalmari proved this to be the right thing to do that he promised to continue the debate on the option of the SDP, which is something we have been talking about here quite a lot, as rightly is the case. I prepare this entrepreneurship debate by the fact that, according to the calculations of the Parliamentary Information Service, 50% of entrepreneurs, precisely the lower-income side, benefit more from the SDP model than from the government model. This is a good place to go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u250	President! In Germany, at the request of the Greens and under the leadership, the so-called Energiewende, or energy policy change, has resulted in nuclear power stations being driven down and Germany will have to rely more on coal, specifically lignite, which, during the DDR, polluted the environment. The Greens also call for an increase in electric cars, which means that the batteries needed by electric cars will have to use materials that may have been mined by child labour in Africa, or more mines will have to be set up in Finland in such a way that the environment is polluted. Blue as a glue that holds the government together is very pleased with this line of work, economy and security, and safety is also reflected in the fact that victims of crime are:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u251	Mr President! Indeed, as has already been said, for the first time in a decade the State will be able to shorten its debts. This is a positive trend, but as has often been shown here, this is largely based on a one-off item. Without this sum, then, central government finances would continue to grow, and I must say to you, Minister of Finance, that responsible economic management cannot, of course, be based on chance, but must be pursued and improved. Moreover, the application for one-off profits is not a long-term economic activity. In particular, the sale of valuable national assets is a poor economic activity. Valuable national property is certainly worth keeping in our own hands, and unfortunately we have very clear evidence of it in past years and in previous parliamentary periods. Unfortunately, under the Sipilä regime, state property has already been sold for several billion euros, much more than previous governments have done. Would the Minister Orphan please tell me if he has?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u252	Congressman Haavisto isn't here, so let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u253	Mr President! Now I give Minister Orpo the hand of cooperation. In my group speech, I said that a fair and fair fight against climate change is the best friend of the poor. We really need to take this challenge of climate change seriously, and it must cover all aspects of life and also all decisions, budgets, legislation and so on in public administration. At all levels, in all solutions, we should also be able to reflect on the basis of the fight against climate change. I proposed this assessment of the effects of climate change to be included in all relevant decision-making as a condition for new decisions. Mr Haavisto was in favour of this in his line. Now, really, I ask Minister Orpo: would you see the possibility of systematically putting the fight against climate change on the agenda so that every time we make decisions, we think about them first and foremost in the fight against climate change and solve them?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u254	Värderade Herr Talman! Jag ska försöka se framåt. Det är ändå det som den rai debatten också brode handla om.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u255	Mr President! I believe that the honorable task for all of us must be to try to leave this planet to our children in at least as good or better condition as we have had. Unfortunately, we will certainly be disappointed and failed in this task, but we must try even more. I would also like to correct one of the mistakes that has been made here in my speech. Representative Heikkinen claimed that during this period the guarantee pension will rise more than in the last period. That's not true. You might want to check the numbers. During the last period, the guarantee pension was increased by nearly EUR 50 in total. This season, even after next year's increase, it will only rise to about 40. According to Kela, 26,000 pensioners have already fallen below the poverty line. We fight in vain and debate here whether there is a national pension index.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u256	Mr President! Thank you for giving me the floor as Vice-President, but... [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u261	Secretary Orphan, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u262	Mr President! There would be a lot of things, but in order not to miss out on time, thank you to the parliamentary groups for the debate. Sometimes good and sometimes quarrelsome, but I'm sure we're moving on. I think we should look to the future, as has been said in many speeches. Three sets of things emerge from this, which are mainly referred to in the Chamber. The first is climate change — a huge challenge for all mankind, that is what we must work together to find solutions. One detail, this climate impact assessment: I would also like to say that this tool has been set up, namely that of budgeting sustainable development and taking it forward, that from the beginning, exists. It is possible to develop it as far as it wants in future budgets. In other words, what kind of euro will be put into the budget, or when new legislation is introduced, how it will affect climate change — that tool exists. The second element is employment. Without employment, a higher employment rate than we now have, there is no Finnish welfare society as we know it. Work is changing: technology, digitalisation, global markets change work. It is our job to make the right structural reforms for education, employment, entrepreneurship, taxation and social security, which achieve higher levels of employment — and for family leave. The third question is sustainability. In other words, as the report on the sustainability gap showed, because of the age structure and the low birth rates, we are in this so-called ups and downs in the coming decades. The solution is above all higher employment rates, which means that more and more people of working age have to work. Otherwise, we will have to cut our welfare or increase the taxes and other charges of people who work, so that work is guaranteed to be killed in this country and the enthusiasm for it. Sustainability is also what we guarantee that our ageing population will receive services. If our public finances are in order and we have a high employment rate, then sustainability is in order, that is, services can be secured. For that we need a social reform, and we are not going to give up with it, really not, but to get it through, so that it swings. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u263	Once again, the Minister will be given the floor when the time comes. Now, the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u264	Mr President! When we started the government plot, the picture of the situation was clear: Finland was swimming deep. During the previous term of the government, under Katainen and Stubb, Finland was in debt of an additional EUR 20 billion. As the Minister for Labour of the SDP took over his position, 100 000 more unemployed people came to Finland. Exports did not go away, competitiveness was gone, and the economy continued to fade. Knocked on the doorpost of the depression. Finland had not been reformed for a long time. It was clear that the direction would not be reversed without painful decisions. Every time new measures have been presented in this Chamber, their importance has been underestimated. In retrospect, you can see that the effects of the decisions have been positive. They form a whole larger than the sum of their parts. The main achievement of the election period is that Finland will rise. Already 115,000 Finns have received a job. The debt of Finland ends. The most important thing now is to keep all Finns involved and get even more people to work, away from unemployment. That is why, despite the anger of the left-wing parties, we must ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises succeed — not by red tape, taxes and new obligations. Work is just being created in small and medium-sized enterprises. This was already known by Eetu Sal, from whom you, the SDP, would also take the dud deduction. The resources of the whole country must be made available. Only intact, all regions of Finland will be able to cope in the future. It is therefore important that investments are supported in every province. In Central Finland, if there is any economic change. Purchasing power will improve and consumer confidence will increase opportunities for entrepreneurs. It makes you feel so good when you make homes and start families again. The fact that everything is included is also reflected in the government budget for next year. The available resources will be used to provide care for the weaker and to safeguard positive economic development. The budget can rightly be called a budget for care and employment. Next year, the livelihoods of the most low-income Finns will be improved and people's employment opportunities will be increased. The taxation of low-income pensioners, families, unemployed persons and employees will be reduced next year, as the basic reduction in municipal taxation, among other things, will be increased. The lowest daily allowance will increase by approximately EUR 80 next year. They will not be raised unless the centre is on the board. This will also improve the livelihood of the lowest-income families, as well as increasing resources in families' home-help municipalities. In the past, 6,700 low income early childhood education fees were released. Now the group sizes of day care are being reduced. School book purchases for young people with low incomes are supported by EUR 47 per month, which has a significant impact on daily spending in many low income families. Access to the educational material supplement does not cut income support. The guarantee pension will be increased again. The total increase has been EUR 40 during the Government term. That's more than a cut-off promise to the Rinne, 30 euros. The annual liability limit for medicines will be reduced, which will make it easier for those with high incomes, in particular. The situation of over-indebtedness will be facilitated, inter alia, by allocating more money to financial and debt counselling. And you will remember that the High Tax was abolished from the lowest incomes. Even via the food aid STM, EUR 1.2 million will now be obtained by the Ministry assessing the applications received on the basis of which the aid will be distributed. Thank you for that. Mr President! There were also solutions to the exceptionally difficult situation in agriculture. These are of paramount importance both for farmers and for the whole Finnish food chain and for consumers. Here, too, you can see that there is a lot of talk and understanding, but when action is needed, there will also be opponents in this Chamber. When are we going to cut investments, when are other subsidies, when are we going to make the whole countryside into a museum? The bioeconomy in its entirety is a solution to global challenges, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u265	Mr President! In my opinion, at this final stage, the themes of the debate, and also the content, began to change to offer a genuine hand of cooperation, and that is a good feature. In the early stages it seemed very strongly that our world views are indeed different and we have very different means in which we take forward Finnish society. In this respect, for example, a very good debate on the left-wing union then showed how much money is being invested in a certain way, and it was genuinely my view at first that we were talking about spending EUR 2 billion, and that is why it is all right to have this debate here and also, I think, separately in the cafes or committees and accordingly. It is, admittedly, a little different in that our basic idea of how to get out of that poverty is that we could genuinely create more jobs. Of course, we must also give sufficient support to those who are currently unemployed, but, above all, if we were to create jobs and pathways to work through education and everything else, it would be a completely different policy from passive policy. We know how many more challenges there are, for example, in the event of unemployment, that when you do something, you will lose your compensation, or when there are further checks, then the time will be lost. Therefore, although it would have been very good to have an in-depth debate in these active-model discussions on what, for example, our Minister for Labour has said, an attempt is being made to increase this level of trust capital in a certain way, that when an unemployed person declares that he will go to the next place, he will be trusted and not constantly checked, and see if we can find these new elements. On the other hand, there was a lot of talk from the Greens, for example in the group, about the fact that it is enough to have one of the cornerstones of life on the loose, whether it is unemployment or it is drop-out. But you certainly cannot deny that, during this reign, efforts have been made to repair and push forward the cornerstones that lead to the fall. Similarly, very few are able to deny that, during this reign, environmental and climate policy has not been carried out in a rather good way by practical actions. In that regard, we are a genuinely leading country and we are gradually starting to be, for example, an example of a bioeconomy that is also a model for the world. We have been working very hard on this, but it has also proved to be a good employment policy. Then, of course, we will have a very different idea of how some tax reductions and others will be targeted. As I said in my previous speech, we believe that they should be targeted at everyone for various reasons: in the case of low-income people, because the threshold for going to work would be lower, in the case of middle-income people, because we have world-class high taxes, so that the very low pay grade already increases the tax rate — and marginal tax in particular — to a very high level, and then, in the case of those on higher incomes, because we have quite a lot of brain drains from this country and we should not have anyone paying taxes for their jobs. In other words, our worst debt is the debt of reform. As we say in our group statement, taxation is still too progressive, there is still a negative echo of entrepreneurship and ownership, although it is actually the way to create those jobs, and we are still talking about a certain kind of consolidation in relation to the pattern of unemployment and not about how we can genuinely find routes forward, so that there will be more people — and that we can both provide and find jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u266	Mr President! So at the end of the year, when discussing next year's budget, it is time to look to the future. The main concern relates to education and young people. We Social Democrats are concerned about the alarming decline in Finnish education levels and we have presented solutions in our own alternative budget to raise skills through the 2030 Skills Path. In order for Finland to succeed and succeed in global competition, we need to ensure quality education, research and knowledge. The government does not seem to have realised this with sufficient seriousness. We Social Democrats believe that in order to achieve this goal it is essential that every young person should receive at least secondary education and that in Finland a reform of continuous learning is introduced. The SDP's Knowledge Path 2030 package is a longer-term vision for the development of education and education in Finland. Mr President! It is extremely worrying that Finland's educational level has fallen, that investment in research and product development is falling and that education is challenging to meet the needs of changing working life. In Finland, there are over 100,000 people between the ages of 20 and 29 who lack at least asecond degree or vocational qualification,17percent of the age group. Unemployment statistics for young people relying solely on primary education show their harsh language: less than half of them are employed. Today it is very difficult to find employment without training, and it is therefore necessary to ensure that everyone has at least a secondary degree. A good way to achieve this is to extend compulsory education from the current nine-year comprehensive school to secondary education. At the same time, learning materials would become free of charge, which would help to remove obstacles to training. It seems incomprehensible that Sipilä’s government has not dealt with this issue, even though young people’s exclusion from education and work is one of the greatest threats to Finland’s future. In parallel with the extension of compulsory education, another important reform is related to flexible updating of skills. A reform of continuous learning is needed to make it possible for every Finnish person to know and update it with a changing working life. There is now a need for urgent solutions to raise the level of competence and improve educational equality. At the same time, this is the key to securing well-being services for everyone in Finland. Mr President! In its own alternative budget, the SDP also wants to improve pensions. In the model of the SDP, the national pension or guarantee pension would increase by approximately EUR 37 per month with a flat-rate increase and an index increase if the earnings-related pension is less than EUR 1400 per month. In addition, the SDP option would reduce the tax burden on the pensioner by a maximum of EUR 12 per month. Thus more than 55,000 people would rise out of retirement poverty. In the long term, the SDP aims to increase the total of EUR 100 to the smallest pensions under EUR 1400. Every elderly person has earned decent care and a decent living. To put it bluntly, it is heartless to laugh at this pension crop by the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u269	President! As many speakers have said, we are on a good path. However, as the VM's forecast today and many warning speeches, such as those of finance minister Orpo, proved, there is absolutely no reason for us to bang on the henkles. Now is a chance, unfortunately, when we're on a good road, to ruin everything and mess up the ball in your own goal. This will be possible if, after the next elections, a government is formed which is hilariously distributing money there and here and there. This budget, President-in-Office, is also good and worthy in the sense of strengthening the faith of the future and creating the conditions for the future. The economy is largely psychological, and we need to strengthen these positive conditions, strengthen our strengths. Ambition levels should not be lowered down. As an example, this employment rate of 72% was sometimes not believed in by the government itself. This has been achieved, but the bar needs to be raised: we must continue to strive for an employment rate of 75. I do not always understand the SDP's alternative budget and the opposition's line. Let us talk beautifully about a good thing in itself, the freeness of secondary education. In the alternative budget, the SDP has put 20 million in the price tag and then there is a money initiative with 10 million in it, but according to the calculations of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities it is 100 million. Then the previous speaker, a fellow committee member whom I appreciated, said that there was less money for research in universities. It is just recent information from Statistics Finland that R & D funds — private, public and higher education institutions’ own investments — are already at the 2015 level, when the government started its work. I would also like to appeal to the Finnish people from this place, from this forum: it is not right for citizens to submit to a few electoral speeches that promise it and this and that. It's accelerating as the election is approaching. Words of promise don't really warm anything up, but deeds do. I just got laughed at when I was talking about blue being government glue. That is exactly what we have been. A year and a half ago, after tragic political events, we remained in the government responsible for the country. We do not want to be deserters and we did not want any kind of government crisis in this country and things that would have upset the stability of our society. Now the deeds are talking. We in the government have achieved things that benefit from the vast layers of the Finnish people, and this line must continue. For example, with regard to the speaker who has just spoken, we have been able to fight for a reduction in the cap on pharmaceuticals of approximately EUR 40. And in order to make the public feel safe and to strengthen the rule of law, sanctions will be tightened up and criminal liability will be more effective. The protection of the weaker party will be ensured, equality and equality promoted. The legal protection of citizens will be improved, justice will be given a better opportunity to focus on the core task itself, reduce crime, develop a system of sanctions. These objectives are already emerging from the Government Programme, which contribute to strengthening a safer Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u270	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to go through a list of someone's journeys and then come back to heated or friendly debuts, one or both, a little later.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u271	Mr President! Firstly, I support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Savio. Mr President! It may be appropriate to recall the situation less than four years ago and to note that the Sipilä government, as a legacy, had a truly gloomy economic and employment situation with its predecessor. Unemployment was on the rise. The rate of government and local government debt was fierce. At that time, they had eaten out the treasury. There had been a sale of wealth so that it had maintained a certain static situation so that government expenditure could be managed, but indeed with huge debt. Taxation had also been tightened, except for the reduction in corporation tax, which was then managed by the Minister of Finance, Mr Urplainen. In this situation, we went to the 15th elections, and all parties except the Left Alliance had a tough austerity and adjustment programme. Among other things, 20 were tabled by the Social Democrats. On 15 March, exactly one month before the elections, they called for an adjustment of three plus one billion: two billion immediately in the vanguard of expenditure reduction, one billion a little later and one billion in tax evasion. Of course, it would have been interesting to see — fortunately not seen — what this programme would have become. Tighter taxation and, for example, cuts from municipalities, which was the main target of the Social Democrats, would have led to an even worse situation. Even in the previous period, the finances of municipalities had been tightened so that municipalities were in a vicious spiral of debt, there was a widespread service shutdown, care for the elderly, children and education suffered and so on, so that it was no longer possible to continue on that path. This is the situation where the Sipilä government left. The True Finns were involved in implementing the program for less than a couple of years, and very painful decisions were made during that time. We took responsibility. Then we were thrown out of the government. Our starting point was that the economic spiral inherited from the previous period had to be corrected. We were not happy with all the places, on the contrary, where the government went in its early days. In particular, the cuts were disproportionate in many respects. But there's been a turn of events. We assume that, when the turn comes, the turning point will also take place in political action so that social justice, equality between people and the consideration of all citizens becomes a leading theme. Now it would be possible. Indeed, your turn has already happened, as Minister Orpo said here, less than three years ago, in other words, when the Finns are still in the government. At the moment, then, we will see the policy that the government is proposing for next year. It is a cold ride for the poor, the underprivileged and also the middle-incomed. Hundreds of thousands of families with children are in distress, a large proportion of pensioners wonder whether I buy medicine or food. Rural areas have been driven down this season at an unprecedented pace. Agriculture is under pressure at national level, but now particularly at EU level, so that the situation seems to be particularly worrying. Indeed, services have been severely weakened and centralised. By the way, over the last few years wages have risen significantly, perhaps up to 6%, but the indexes of those on basic security have been cut and poverty has been left to them. Thus, the overall picture is that inequalities in society have increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u272	Ladies and gentlemen, there have been requests for answers now and a little earlier. I think it is appropriate that, after that debate, when the actual speeches were made, we should take at least one round of speeches from each group, and then look at the state of the debate and the need for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u273	Mr President! The only thing we need more than hope is action. So said Greta Thunberg, a 15-year-old school student who spoke at the Katowice climate conference. Stopping climate change to 1.5 degrees requires us to be able to make a big change on a very fast schedule. There is hope, but time is running out. People are demanding action from us decision-makers, now. There would also have been a need for more action in the government's budget proposal. The phasing-out of fossil fuels and support for climate change has still not begun. The subsidies for fossils are three times higher than those for renewables. Investments in rail transport and electrification remain too low, although transport is one of the most significant sources of emissions. It is disappointing that the government is not prepared to introduce new taxes that control consumption, even a flight tax that is widely supported by Finns. Earlier this year the government promised to return to the plastic tax in connection with the budget, but it seemed to remain a mere talk. Mr President! Finland needs to tighten its own emission reduction target to less than 60 per cent by 2030, and carbon neutrality must be achieved in the same decade. After that, we must begin to bind carbon from the atmosphere. We must ensure that our carbon sink grows. If the sink decreases, it will require even more rapid reductions in emissions to compensate for it. Forest capacity to act as a carbon sink has become crucial in the fight against climate change. We cannot lift the current level of felling if, at the same time, we want to stop climate change and the loss of biodiversity. Climate and economy are not opposites. Ambitious climate policy is also the best industrial policy and supports the emergence and growth of sustainable industries. The whole world desperately needs solutions to combat climate change. If we can offer them, export opportunities are limitless. Mr President! Finland's success has always been based on equal education. We can't afford to lose anyone's expertise. Education and research, knowledge and education are Finland's resources and potential competitive advantages. We can't lose these. The cuts in the Sipilä government's education have been fatal. We are in a situation where our education levels are falling and the learning outcomes have deteriorated. Our education system, which has been praised and praised by the world, is crumbling as a result of drastic cuts. Teachers do not have enough time for their students, those who need support are too often left to their own devices, teaching lessons have been reduced. It's not going to help with the government's little patchwork. We need to invest significantly more in education. We need a billion-dollar investment in knowledge and education at all levels from toddlers to doctors. According to the Greens, the honour of education must be the next great mission in Finland. Its launch will be a key task for the next government. Mr President! We are all delighted with good employment developments. However, not everyone can enjoy the fruits it brings. When the government made drastic savings, it was the first one to go to the purse of the low-income ones. Now that we have been able to afford to relax, relief is directed elsewhere. This isn't right. Even one in eight children live in poverty and far too many pensioners have to choose whether to buy food or medicine. The government's budget proposal does not reduce inequality. Nor does it lift people out of poverty. Cutting off the poor has been a government choice of values that would not have had to be made. The choice of the Greens is different. We want to stop inequality and narrow the income gap. The benefits of the low incomes must be returned to the index. The increase in the basic municipal tax deduction of the government was too small. A clear level increase is needed in basic security, minimum daily allowances, guarantee pension and student support for the unemployed. Mr President! In the end, the budget is about value choices. Climate, education and the involvement of every human being in this society are the most important objectives of the Greens. Regrettably, the government budget does not implement these objectives. That is why I support Mr Haavisto's motion of censure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u274	Mr President! This weekend we have all been able to read the news about how the economy is doing better than anticipated. The government is on its way to achieving its employment objective. In addition, we were able to read recent news about the government’s intention to reduce government debt to some one billion dollars. These are all good and welcome news, but at the same time more and more Finns wonder when good news will come for Finnish low incomes. This government has cut social security in many ways. Income-related unemployment benefit has been reduced, the conditions for unemployment benefit have been tightened, customer social welfare and health care fees and self-responsibility for medicines and travel have been increased. As a result of the active model, around 39 per cent of the unemployed are entitled to reduced unemployment benefit and, in addition, the indexes of social security have been frozen throughout the parliamentary term. Combined, the government has saved around 300 million of all the most vulnerable low-income unemployed, pensioners, disabled people, breast-fed and families with children during this parliamentary term. These cuts have been justified by poor economic conditions and compulsory expenditure savings, but now that the economic situation has improved and there is room for manoeuvre, there is no change in this line. 69 million would be the cost of ending this index freeze for next year, and 300 million would replace what was taken from the low incomes during this parliamentary term. Petteri Orpo will be happy to respond to this criticism by warning against the risk of division, saying that permanent expenditure increases should not be made to improve the position of low incomes. At the same time, however, he forgets to say that this government has decided on major tax reductions to improve the position of the well-earned, even to the extent that the National Audit Office has recommended a stricter fiscal policy line. These economic policy priorities are pure value choices. The government’s values are illustrated by the fact that improving the position of low incomes is the last priority. When things are bad in the economy, you cut off low incomes, and when things are good in the economy, you do the same. This way of thinking can serve as an example of the fact that the government thinks that people with high incomes should always be encouraged by giving them more money, but those with low incomes should always be encouraged by cutting their money.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u279	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! First of all, I support Mr Blomqvist's motion of censure so that I do not forget that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u280	Mr President! This state budget proposal is quite balanced and disciplined and in that way follows the line the government has taken. But here, first of all, I support the representative. It's a lack of confidence from Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u289	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Over the last few years, we have been able to look more confidently to the future, thanks to the direction of the economy that has turned, thanks to the work that the Sipilä Government has been able to do. The opposition does not thank us for the economic reversal, but behind their message there is frustration that they were unable to do this work themselves. Of course, the fruits of the work that has now been done in the opposition are happy to share. It's been a long time since I've had anything to share. Now, in time for Christmas, we were informed that Finland will pay off its debt for the first time in a decade. The debt will be reduced by nearly EUR 1 billion thanks to responsible economic policy. Almost all of the government’s economic policy objectives are being met. An example of these is the employment rate of nearly 72 per cent and the increase in the number of employed persons in 115,000 people. In the midst of these joys, we should remember, as the Minister of Finance has insisted, that government debt is expected to resume next year. Economic growth is projected to slow down slightly and the ageing population will increase expenditure. The sustainability gap is still a reality and no party should be able to afford loose promises in the run-up to the elections. Ladies and gentlemen, you will remember to tell us this on the electoral grounds: there is still a huge sustainability gap in public finances. Today, the Ministry of Finance published its economic forecast, which predicts a slowdown in economic growth. Thus, the economy continues to grow, but growth is slowing down closer to the normal rate of growth. Age-related expenditure increases, creating imbalances between government expenditure and revenue. This means that: Finland will continue to need a responsible policy in the management of the economy, employment and services. This situation requires taking into account and involving the resources of the whole country. Economic growth has been good in every province of Finland, and there is every reason to support the continuation of this development. It is not just a successful capital region that can sustain positive economic development. Finland is doing well when it is living with its full strength. Only an integrated Finland will succeed in the future. Madam President! Statistics Finland published a population projection in the autumn, which gave a worrying message about the decrease in the birth rate. If forecasts were to be realised, an even smaller number of working-age people would be able to finance a significant part of society’s services in the future. This challenges our entire welfare society, whose financing base is seriously compromised if the birth rate continues to grovel in the baseline figures. So it is not just family policy, but, to a great extent, economic policy, for example. The guarantee of all vitality and economic activity is a healthy demographic development. That is why family policy issues must be put at the top of the political priority list as a common issue. In addition to a wise, future and hope-creating family policy, we also need immigration. We need to dismantle the barriers to labour needs testing, and we also need to be able to better employ students with a foreign background who are studying in our educational institutions. It is a waste of resources if we allow these students who have come to study to leave here with good education under their arms. Mr President! Finally, in the Committee on Finance, I would like to highlight a few changes made to the government's budget proposal: we have particularly enjoyed road projects coming to our region in northern Savo, the most important of which is the construction of a pair of bypass lanes between Siilinjärvi and Lappilahti, a busy highway 5. A new pair of bypass lanes not only facilitates traffic but also significantly increases road safety. In the future, it will also be easier and safer for people in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area to use their ski resorts in the north. At the same time, I hope that next season we will continue to reduce the road repair debt and boldly invest in new infrastructure projects throughout Finland. Infra-projects are always about securing economic conditions. Madam President! In short, I also welcome the small amount that the Horse Information Centre is about to receive in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u290	Mr President! We are having a feedback debate on the state budget next year in a situation where there is a good need for consideration. It is a fact that our economy has developed positively this year. This year we will be paying back debt for the first time since 2008. Growth has also been wide-ranging in regional terms and, best of all, at least 115,000 Finns have received new jobs compared to the beginning of the parliamentary term. So the government’s policy has produced much needed results, and in many homes this Christmas can be celebrated in a more bright atmosphere. On the other hand, the fact is also the finding that our economic growth is dwindling. In many companies, growing production is hampered by a shortage of skilled labour, or production capacity is already in full use. On the other hand, decisions on new investment in production will not be taken, because there is great concern about the economic policy that will be pursued in this country for the next four years. The difficult situation of our key partners, the unclear Brexis, the coughing up of the German economic locomotive and the debt-promoting policies of Italy and France, will also have a delayed impact on our growth prospects. Mr President! A responsible political decision-maker would draw the conclusion from these considerations that, in the coming years, economic policy must be moderate and pragmatic if we are to stick to a welfare society such as this one. The money is still not enough to finance the services needed for the next decade, even though our employment rate is already at the highest level than it has been in the last 25 years. Therefore, the main objective of the government's economic policy must be the same as that of the current government: The economy still needs to be stabilised through strict spending policies and reforms that will allow more and more working-age people to participate in the labour market. We need as many of us as possible to pay for the welfare promises made. This means family leave reform, social security reform and reforms in the labour market, which will enable better company-specific wage development. Models for this model of local reconciliation can be found in key competitor countries. At the same time, we must ensure that the conditions for economic growth are maintained. In the short term, this means that the taxation of work and the commissioning of work should not be tightened and that the operating environment of companies in particular should not be hampered by additional bureaucracy or regulation. With a longer perspective, smart growth policy is an investment in knowledge and research and transport infrastructure. Mr President! Finally, the Committee on Finance deserves our thanks for the additional contribution made to the Mobility Study programme. A total of EUR 1 million will be allocated to pilots in early childhood education. Another good addition is the allocation of EUR 1 million for social inclusion, which will be allocated specifically to support the pursuit of low-income children and young people. Mr President! I also welcome the fact that the committee's report includes a proposal for a financial allocation for the construction of a light transport corridor on the road section Lintukangas — Rannilantie connection. EUR 620000 opens up new opportunities for increasing commuting cycling in Jyväskylä, among other things, so thank you for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u292	Madam President! One of the most important tasks of the future government must be to halt the development of inequality. What has surprised me most during this parliamentary term is the kind of frenzy. The Sipilä government has attacked the underprivileged. The lowest incomes have been most heavily involved in balancing the state economy. The largest cuts have been made from low-income wage and salary earners, pensioners, unemployed, sick, students and families with children. Surgery for the same person or family has had a major impact on daily living. At the same time, however, there has been a lot to be allocated to one's own interests. The underprivileged are given a spoon and taken with a bucket. The government will add EUR 50 million to the lowest parental benefits and guarantee pension, which is a good and positive thing, but at the same time the government will cut two more terribly from almost the same group: increases in responsibilities for reimbursement of medicines, increases in social security contributions and so on and so on. The poor man's shift will not come during this government, whether it's a landing or a booming season. Mr Heinonen spoke with disdain here in his group speech about 'the distribution of vouchers on the market'. It appears that Mr Heinonen referred to the opening of the SDP in order to eliminate pensioner poverty. The SDP argued that, within the limits allowed by public finances, small pensions would be aimed at an increase of a total of EUR 100 over a period of several years. According to Tela’s expert, the SDP’s presentation removes 55,000 Finnish pensioners from poverty. Above all, it is a question of fairness. Value choices are constantly being made in social policy. In the values of the SDP, decent livelihoods belong to everyone. There is a large group of low-income pensioners in our country, who daily have to compromise on many things because of a small pension. The welfare society belongs to everyone, and it is an honour to ensure the decent level of pensions for these women and men. As far as the table is concerned, all you can say about that dinner conversation is ‘to wash hands’. The issue has been discussed throughout the autumn,but nothing has happened,andwe have then seen a ‘work Well, I hope that the outcome of today's debate will be a correction. Mr President! The positive thing is that employment has been positive and jobs have been created, but at the same time I would like to remind you of why and how jobs have been created in this country — it seems to have already been forgotten by the government when the suspenders were banged. Employees accepted the Competitiveness Pact in the belief that it would act as a restraint against the bill that was known to be coming. Among other things, it was agreed in Kiki that unemployment benefit would not be weakened or generalised. The price that employees agreed to along their teeth was high: holiday money was cut, among other things, followed by moderate pay rounds. Employees took responsibility for maintaining the peace of the labour market in order to create jobs and the wheels of the economy in this country. So what did the government do? The government broke kiky by creating an active model that cuts unemployment security. This was not enough, but the government has been constantly on a collision course with the labour market: in addition to the cuts in holiday money and the active model, the government has cut unemployment benefit, extended the probation period and reduced the obligation to take back and take notice, and you even tried to remove the deadline criterion from those under the age of thirty.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u295	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Ojala-Niemela for his speech. Because it was very descriptive. He listed all the activities and criticised all those that had more than 50,000 jobs in this parliamentary term. We have fully studied the fact that half of these jobs are due to the improvement of the world economy, and the other half is due to the actions which you have criticised here in particular, which have improved the profitability of doing work and carrying out work and have made it more affordable for employers — precisely these measures. In other words, if those measures had not been taken, we would currently have 50,000 fewer people working and the state finances would not be balanced and you would be asked what you will be cutting off from next.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u296	I just saw that while the government has been banging on its suspenders and trying to take this achievement by its own name, the fact is that in this country these jobs have been torn from the backs of Finnish employees. They have had to give their own in the form of holiday allowance cuts and unemployment benefit has been cut. Let's take this active model last. Now it has just shown that it has not created new jobs. The active model punishes lack of work and does not activate. For example, we have localities in Lapland where 80 per cent of the unemployed have been cut unemployment benefit due to the active model, because there is simply no work to go and activate themselves because of the structure of the economy. That is the fact in this context. I do hope for a change of direction in the next parliamentary term: not arguing and tearing, as is the case now, but agreeing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u297	Let's open a short debat here when there's a need.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u298	Madam President! In the previous debate, I have already said that it is a little frustrating to have such a debate when we want to forget the whole big picture. The biggest act for Finland has been what we are internationally thanked for, but the opposition is barking: we have given work to more than 115,000 Finns. A couple of weeks ago, Etla estimated that half of those jobs were directly attributable to government action, and that is really important. It brings well-being to many, many families. You systematically shoot and evaluate what we've done. They have been necessary and it is good to remember that without these jobs and this economic growth there would not be. You also cut during the last term of government, but the balance was 100,000 unemployed in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u299	Mr President! There is no point in arguing about how much and what factors have contributed to the improvement in the employment situation. It is excellent that this has happened, and it has reduced social spending and increased tax revenues and has therefore been an extremely important issue. But it is certainly clear that the international situation has a significant impact on job creation, business success, the open sector, on the one hand, and government measures and the agreement of social partners on the other. But then this active model: I do not remember the figures exactly now, but the section pointed out that both the Labour Administration and Kela have generated significant administrative costs, adding up more than 10 million. The result on the employment side is very low, and there are then very small unemployment benefits again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u300	Mr President! It became very clear in the Committee on Finance that almost all experts said that one major obstacle to our economic growth and the future is precisely that we do not have experts and players at the moment. In other words, we need to organise these issues so that our structures will be better, that everyone will have the opportunity to act for this society, and that means that we can say that we will liberalise the labour market even more. That is what this government has been doing at the moment, and I must say that it has had an impact. The previous government has also had an impact, for example, our corporate tax reduction of 20% had an impact, even though the opposition here does not bring it up for our best decision last season. It has enabled this economic growth to play its part, and then through the decisions of this regime,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u301	Mr President! It is undeniable that the improvement in employment is a very fine thing, and it is certainly thanks to more governments, but also, of course, to international developments. But I believe that politicians cannot be content with macroeconomic results alone, but we must also consider how economic growth and employment are targeted at different groups. Indeed, the government has made a good promise that it will assess the budget in line with the 2030 Agenda objectives in terms of climate and gender impact, but the gender-specific assessment of the impact on gender has remained very weak. For example, when we talk about child poverty, we know that a very large proportion of single parents are among the lowest incomes, and that half of single parents are low incomes. Up to 30 per cent of children in cities live with one parent.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u302	Madam President! Yes, I must say that last night, the active model received feedback. In other words, when a person tries to do everything he can, but when those services are not available and work is not available and cannot meet those conditions of activity, however much he wishes, what does the government do? Cut almost 5 percent of that small income and thus incriminate this one, who tries to activate himself but cannot, is unable. There are also a lot of long-term sick people and people who actually belong to an invalidity pension, but we have such a system that, for years, hangs these people in red tape waiting for that decision, and even if they have any kind of statements, the insurance doctors say that ‘seek for incapacitating, mene activation’. But when they do not find the measures they could take when they cannot do so. This discourages people, and they are so anxious that they really do not know what to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u303	Mr President! Although the employment situation has improved and the number of unemployed has decreased, the situation of those who have been unemployed for a long time has not improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u306	Madam President! There have been a lot of actions under this government that have not been taken during the last term of government. This is an indisputable fact, and I understand the pain of the opposition when one should say black in white and vice versa, but of course that will not work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u309	Mr President! When Finland chose the partnership and chose the path of the euro, it was already known that the only way to maintain employment is labour market flexibility. We all understand that it is not such a simple thing, but if we are going to survive and keep up with international competition in the future, then we have to get people to work, increase the value of the work at hand, and increase the incentive traps that are obviously in our society at the moment, some time horizon must be able to dismantle — without challenging anyone’s well-being. But as far as employment is concerned, I also think that this government has in a great way planned new infrastructure projects and new financing models — perhaps including pension companies — but if the international economy is now stalling and our exports are beginning to deteriorate, then it is entirely in line with good economics to start revitalising large public infrastructure projects,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u310	Let us take a few more speeches, and then the Minister will respond. Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u311	Madam President! I was very sorry to hear about this addition to the front veterans and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health being accused of not doing something. After all, the government and the representatives of the government there define that line, and the opposition has done its own work, including the Finns of Peru, of whom I am the only one. Among other things, it was from the government parties that, when you were there, you had not done your work. As my sole representative, I have done my job and, among other things, I have recorded in a different opinion on November 13 in the ‘Sommeveterans Services’ section on how we want to improve matters. Minister, you said we can't promise anything, but I think we have to promise good care for the elderly in Finland. This comes up time and again in the market discussions. For example, in Lohja, Järvenpää and Karkkila on the weekend when I went around, it was people's feedback that the care of the elderly was in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u312	Madam President! There was a bit of a false witness from my esteemed colleague, Mäkisalo-Roppose, from our common constituency. There, too, the government has been able to influence the decline in long-term unemployment as well as youth unemployment by its actions. This government has been able to do what it has done, and thanks to international economics, to jump into it and really do more than 115,000 jobs throughout Finland. But as has been said in this good debate, it is true that there are people we cannot help with any single action. There are so many reasons why a person can't get involved in the work, and that's why you have to have those drugs. Many of us have started to build, but Finland will not be ready after this government, but this responsible policy must continue even after the elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u313	Mr President! Yes, this government has left the most vulnerable people in employment or employment situations, people in unemployment situations, entirely alone. There are now a number of studies and studies in favour of this. For example, the results of the survey, which appeared about a month ago, were quite worrying. They found that the long-term unemployed are not being examined, treated or directed to rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u316	Mr President! One minute is not enough to go over the background to the competitiveness pact, but I thought I would do so as soon as I have a longer speech, and I will return to this issue of holiday money, among other things, when I happen to remember how it went. So much I would like to point out from Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen that it is true that this is a rather worrying situation, that, in fact, we would already have more than 60,000 jobs if we had found people capable of carrying out the jobs that have been offered or who would have been well advised financially to accept the work that has been available. In other words, the reform of social security and the review of these active measures are inevitable. I myself think that it is nothing to care about a person, that we should give a small money home, which has long been a means in Finland, but it is important that we actually get people to work and find paths for those who are hard to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u317	Mr President! What is important is that we do this in cooperation and not in a fight. Recent figures from last week show that, in relation to the active model, Kela and the Financial Supervisory Authority, more and more unemployed people are receiving unemployment benefits at a reduced rate. In particular, the active model has reduced the level of unemployment benefits for older people. A reduced benefit is the more common the older the age group is. One reason for this is precisely what Mr Hänninen said earlier, that we have seasonal work available across Finland in different ways and that there are large differences in the number of services that can be provided. But I agree with what Mr Suutari has said and what came out of that committee hearing and what Mr Satonen was talking about, namely that this is a real problem which needs to be resolved in the next parliamentary term. Since we, for example, need workers for tourism in Lapland, but our own young people do not want to go to tourism companies, we are now trying to get from the south, suck on enough young people, but do not want to be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u318	Mr Mikkonen and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u319	Mr President! The big problem is that, on the one hand, we still have a lot of unemployed people, even though the number has decreased, on the other hand we have a lot of job vacancies and they do not face them. We should find a solution to this together. On the other hand, we must ensure that those who have been unemployed for a long time are set up on the path to their participation in working life. For example, labour market training is the key, wage support is a good way to do so and other such subsidies that we can use to build their path. On the one hand, we must ensure that no young person falls off the path of getting a job and getting into work, and on the other hand we know that we have a huge number of people who are getting older. Lifelong learning and education — we need to find solutions that enable us to provide education throughout the career of life, because we know that there are increasingly fewer and fewer professions where once learned training is enough for the rest of our lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u320	Minister Orpo, reply, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u321	Madam Speaker! I think that this problem of encounters is one of the most important things we should all be working on. Congressman Suutari just told me that Transtech would hire 500. Last week I talked to a concrete entrepreneur in Turku, ten jobs immediately available, another entrepreneur in the construction sector, 20 jobs available — not found. We have 300,000 unemployed and a much higher unemployment rate. I think we really need to ask ourselves what the problems are there in the background that jobs, job vacancies and the unemployed do not face. At least I do not think we should leave the young people at home without patting them into work in one way or another. I think it is irresponsible, and that is why social security for consideration is necessary. If someone still offers you basic income, and that money comes free of charge,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u324	Madam President! I agree with all the other representatives here, I think, that the problem of encounters is real and we need to be able to respond to it. But it is quite grotesque that you, the government, have cut a record amount, during this reign 200 million euros, from vocational education, which is the basis of our knowledge, the skilled labour force, the foundation. There are not many days when I discussed with a young man that he should graduate from the construction department next spring, but he will not be able to make screens when there is no job where he can study, practice and do the screens through which he can show companies that he can and can and can find employment in the company. No one can employ a person who has not yet learned how to work, even though we learn through the work. We should be able to offer these opportunities to our young people, but how does the government respond to this? It is quite populist to present, as the centre suggests, a thousand new teachers in vocational training at the same time as you have cut 2000 teachers out of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u325	Seems like there's a need for a debut. I would ask those Members who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u326	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for his constructive approach, at least here in the last 25 minutes. If, and today, we have wanted to talk about the future and serious investment in the future, and hopefully we will succeed this evening, then at least I myself think and I am really concerned that Finland will no longer last in the next decade for us to have cities and municipalities with more than 10% unemployment. We simply run out of revenue, we run out of money. I would have asked you: how do you see its development/solutions? I am now comparing, for example, Sweden and Denmark and, more broadly, where various investments, measures, have been made less than that. Secondly, Minister, Finland's narrow economic structure: There is still talk in other parts of Europe, even Sweden, that Finland is very vulnerable to a new attack — and I am talking about economic shocks — because we still have such a narrow industrial structure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u327	Mr President! When the government started, Finland was in debt of EUR 8 billion a year and exports stalled and the number of unemployed was over 300,000. Today we are pleased, and I hope that we are all pleased that we have 115,000 people working and that Finland is even able to reduce its debt. It is true that these have called for painful decisions, but they can now be corrected in this budget too: EUR 70 million will be added to the lowest benefits. That is why I am pleased that we are now jointly thanking the Competitiveness Pact. I remember when they almost made fun of it here. It was an excellent achievement for employees, just as the Minister of Finance said, to meet in a situation where we together have made this rise in Finland. This rise together we should all appreciate and give thanks to those to whom it belongs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u328	Madam President! In my earlier debate, I reminded you that, although debt growth has now been broken, these prospects for sustainability deficits are indeed worrying. In this debate, I would particularly like to highlight the fact that the number of working-age people is one of the most important issues. Of course, the birth rate and good family policies guarantee that we will then have a workforce in the future, but we have a lot of people who are excluded from working life or who have insufficient education. We also have a huge challenge here, how we will be able to develop the model of lifelong learning for future government periods, and that is what I would like to send to the Minister for Finance, which is the way. I do not believe that public money alone can be used to implement all of this, but that there is a need for incentives for companies to do so and for workers to be encouraged to consider their own ability to work and, in particular, their level of education as well,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u329	Mr President! Minister Orpo gave a good speech on who is to be thanked for this so far, but in the same way as Mr Skinner, I am concerned about how the situation will be resolved in areas where unemployment is high and then severe labour shortages. You wonder, day after day, night after night, why, for example, we have Kainuu has an employment rate of 62 per cent for men and an unemployment rate of 10 per cent. Then it is said from the TE Centre that we have courses and that there are courses for all those who want to work, but when you do not get applicants for them. We need to solve this problem and discuss the right things here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u330	Irade the Talman! That is where I asked a question that I might have been able to answer — although it may have been rhetorical. But around the same problem: There are over 200,000 self-employed people in Finland, and some of them are self-employed because they want to be, but some of them are necessary, forced, because no one dares hire them. In other words, being an entrepreneur is a condition for getting a job because a binding wage ratio cannot be obtained. For the same reason, spare services and such services are quite common in Finland. The risk is outsourced to the company, but at the same time considerable costs are taken into account, which will then be negative for the Finnish economy as a result of an increase in the cost level. There have been many attempts to tackle this. Of course, you can support pay, but it is a very artificial and somewhat difficult way to promote pay. I would like to ask the Minister: of course you had this one attempt, which may not have been very well completed,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u331	Mr President! The problem of dealing with work and the unemployed is very serious, and I must say that when we have been talking about it for years, we have not managed to find adequate models to fix it. According to a study by Janne Huovar and Elina Pylkkänen, we have 70,000 young men excluded, and that is a threat to increase when our education system is not in place. The workforce thus decreases and the dependency ratio weakens. The rise in the level of education of young people has stopped as the only OECD country. This is worrying information, and I would like to ask: how does the government view the obligation of young people between the ages of 16 and 18 who are minors to some extent to study and thus to get away with the work? For example, the Youth Guarantee was a good idea, but when it was completely voluntary, it did not produce results.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u332	Madam President! It was a good thing that there was quite a lot of praise for the competitiveness pact, because it seems to be an undeniable fact that it created some 30,000 new jobs in Finland, apparently little depending on the evaluator. In that sense, it has been completely pointless that, when we talk about the unfortunate cut in public sector holiday money, for example, the Greens and Social Democrats have forgotten that they themselves were in favour of a competitiveness pact. It can be well worth it, because it worked positively for the Finns. I am not quite sure how the trade unionists are going to react to this, because when this strike was taking place, the term ‘last nit’ was used and I understood that the sepanite had been a sekiky contract — ‘too much’. However, the agreement created thousands of new jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u333	Madam President! Of course, it is good to remember that there are never very simple solutions to complex issues, and that is one of them. The option raised in this debate of obliging young people to train or take up a job is, of course, not a bad idea in itself, but it alone does not solve anything. When we have cut nearly EUR 200 million, for example, from secondary vocational education and training, and from other sources, it has not contributed to this, but has exacerbated the problem of why some of our young people, even though they are obliged and forced to do so, are not ready or able to study or work. The problems that lead to the exclusion of young people must be addressed at a much earlier stage. These problems need to be identified and specific targeted support provided from early childhood education onwards, from primary school onwards and at secondary level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u334	Mr President! I must say that there is one party in this Chamber that has not supported the Kiki agreement and we still do not support it. The 30% reduction in public sector holiday payments is not fair. It is particularly targeted at women-dominated sectors. Between 70% and 80% are women in the public sector. On the other hand, an extension of working time, six minutes a day unpaid, does not increase jobs with any mathematics, but reduces the need for labour. Mr President! It is true that the exclusion and unemployment of young people is a big problem, because that first job is very important. In other words, at a time when a young person is ready for work, it would be particularly important for him to have a place in the world of work, because after that, if it takes two or three years to get to work and not get to the sector he wants, then that is the greatest risk of exclusion. That is why I believe that special resources and resources should be allocated to the employment of young people. So, for example, when a company hires a young person to work, they'd give him some kind of job.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u335	Madam President! This debate started from the fact that I specifically wanted recognition for the fact that they were heavy sacrifices, what they did in the form of cuts in holiday money and, in the same way, when wages were not increased, but the agreements were very moderate. It was good that this recognition came. I am very grateful for that. But then there is another matter where there is concern about young people who have been excluded: It's true. We have 70,000 young people in the ignorant. They're not working, they're not in college, they're not in the army. Nobody knows where they are. In other words, compulsory secondary education must be extended in order for everyone to receive vocational education and training. Ten years ago, we still had 900,000 jobs, for which only comprehensive school education was necessary, and today we have 300,000 of these jobs. It shows that comprehensive school is no longer enough in this world and that vocational education and training is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u336	Madam President! I have been amazed in this debate by the fact that, for once, when rural communities and the large Finnish countryside had the opportunity to make new growth with forest products — wood is certainly the product of the future, when renewable energy is produced, paper, construction needs and even what is produced, when almost anything comes out of wood from chemical sources — so there was a huge opposition that neither it nor this should be done but everything should fall on top and the world will be ruined. That's not what it is. The treated forest is always the best option, always. For example, when good things happen on the west coast or in Varsinais-Suomi, for example, the shipyards are fine, it has never been discussed in rural areas that it is bad for Finland, even though there are certainly jobs that can burden nature, but there has never been such a debate. I would now like this Chamber to have the great wisdom of seeing these opportunities and allowing them to develop and not immediately shooting down every project in which investment is being made. That's what we've been seeing lately, isn't it? Here I wish for wisdom in this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u337	Mr President! I am also very concerned about the employment of young people and the education of young people, and I too believe that the causes are much earlier than that. There's no way to make them into work. Of course, the problem of encounters is very great for economic growth and labour shortages are, of course, quite a threat to the future. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance whether he has followed the German debate, which draws the attention of the employer to the fact that no return should be made in vain to a refugee with training or language skills. It was precisely estimated that the employment of these refugees has taken place surprisingly well: there are already 400,000 refugees in employment,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u338	Madam President! I would have liked the whole of Finland to have heard Minister Orvo's speech just now, precisely from this point of view, that the Finns themselves took up this opportunity to raise Finland, and it again showed the spirit of the Finnish people, that the Finnish people, when they understand what is at stake and which direction to go, do not shy away from the means but take them. The problem of unemployment, which we have, is that we constantly have between 60,000 and 80,000 jobs available, will be one of the biggest challenges facing the next government — whatever that coalition is. There is also a lot of optional low income living where a huge number of young, well-educated people choose to stay in a so-called low-income life and adapt their own lives to it. This, too, is a new phenomenon that has never existed before, and this will be
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u339	Mr President! I believe quite strongly that realism is the fact that this acute employment situation, to which reference has now been made — including the speech by Mr Suutari and also the Minister — does not seem to have much other solution but the promotion of work-related immigration, and in that sense this consideration of access would have to go back to history. But even more serious is how we can raise the young people in Finland to those tasks, and I think it is worth learning from a place that has been successful. I know that many parties have now studied this model of Iceland, and the achievements are quite incomprehensible, that in Reykjavík, which had the most serious substance abuse problems among young people in the 1980s, is at present the least, because all young people have a hobby and it keeps them closed. Parents are committed, there are curfews, a joint decision has been made to help young people, and the results are excellent. Let's take it from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u340	Mr President! I recommend that we all read the new book on Employment, submitted by Jouko Kajanoja. It is well stated that the striking feature of the current labour market policy is that education and rehabilitation will no longer be invested in, but that the unemployed will be thrown into the labour market with the skills and skills they possess. Those who have been unemployed for a long time need personal support, co-walking, training and rehabilitation, and without these measures, those who have been unemployed for a long time will not be able to get back to work. To Mr Suutari, I would like to say that, even for many long-term unemployed people, it is first necessary to receive the necessary rehabilitation, personal support, guidance and training. That going to education is too big a threshold if you have been unemployed for a long time, and it is precisely these impressive measures that this government has saved,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u341	Madam President! These last speeches, which have been used here, have highlighted why, among other things, we need reform of social and health services and regional reform. When the regional reform is true, for the first time in the history of Finland, employment services, rehabilitation services and social and health care services are under the same organiser, and then, for example, for a long-term unemployed young person who has problems finding its own direction — perhaps it has already been through secondary education but does not know its place and needs services — for the first time, it is possible for him to have a self-employed worker who can find its own way to use the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u342	Madam President! A lot has been said about this problem of confrontation, and I would now like to ask the Minister: I haven't looked at the latest statistics, but in the autumn we had almost 400 unemployed. At the same time, however, more than a hundred jobs were open and would have been able to work immediately. Well, I'm sure there wasn't any professionalism or stuff like this, maybe. However, when unemployment costs, could it be tried in such a way as to take the region, for example in the north of Central Finland, and experiment by region so as to employ everyone and see how willing gentlemen of the unemployed and others are then to take action and also employers to go there? However, private companies further down the road
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u343	Mr President! In this Chamber, concepts are easily confused, and when we talk about competitiveness we talk about cost-competitiveness at the same time. Competitiveness is much more than that, for example, the logistics costs of a Finnish company are almost three times higher than in Central Europe. Of course, knowledge, technology and access to finance are factors of competitiveness, so let us not talk about competitiveness as cost-competitiveness. For four years this government has been talking about competitiveness as cost-competitiveness. That is the difference between what we are talking about when we talk about the future, and that is what I wanted you to challenge, Minister, for what is your model for the next decade. Then, to this good question, Mr Hakkarainen, in fact, what the other Nordic countries did after the financial crisis of 2008: they invested in infrastructure and invested in supporting employment, much more than Finland invested. They didn't have a drop as big as ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u344	Madam Speaker! Although the main debate will take place tomorrow, I really welcome the fact that on both sides and in other words in this Chamber it has been appreciated that Finns have work to do. It is a central pillar of the rise that has taken place during this parliamentary term. The rise to this percentage, where we are now, is spectacular and fine, and that is the source of this problem of confrontation. With so many unemployed and so many job vacancies, there is a problem that needs to be resolved in the future. There are too many people on both sides waiting for them to face up, and that is a problem that will have to be dismantled internally by tomorrow at the latest, what stands in the way of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u345	Madam President! A few words have been said here about the reform of social services and the importance of social services, and Reijo Vuorento from the Association of Local and Regional Authorities commented here a few days ago — for example in the future of rural areas — that the government has made an exceptionally limited assessment of the impact on the economic dimensions of the state, among other things. In other words, exceptionally little during the whole reform period the government would have provided this information, and this comes from the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. When we talk about these savings and costs, I dare to agree with Vuorento that this is how we will achieve the savings of EUR 3 billion and where the savings will be made. That I'm very worried. I see that there is one serious problem in Finland, and that is that you cannot get to a doctor, and there should be more doctors and the doors of health centres in such a way that you can get there from morning to night. This is the biggest problem and the question, and it is simple: a human doctor. That is not happening at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u346	Madam President! From this speech by Mr Juvonen, it is good to continue to say that it is precisely so that by strengthening basic health care, so that there are times for the doctor, we will be able to cope with much. After all, if this were not linked to regional reform and freedom of choice, it would already be ready, but this is what is going on. I then asked for the floor when Mr Hoskonen was still in the Chamber and raised this issue with the forestry industry. It is important that the forest industry succeeds, including the SDP. For example, we now have three major projects in Lapland, and we naturally hope that one of them will start. The surest of them is Metsä Fibre, who will make a survey of this winter whether they will make a whole new plant or renew the old plant. Whatever the outcome, it will mean work and livelihood there in the future. The Kemijärvi industry, Boreal Bioref, is also quite well-placed, so of course it is hoped that it will also move.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u347	Now, Minister, reply, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u348	Madam President! A good debate on the situation, and I think we all need to think about what we need to fix in order to get jobs and the unemployed to face up to. I believe that there are many different life situations, and it is true that there are tens of thousands of unemployed people who are no longer able to move on their own. Therefore, their place is not necessarily in unemployment benefits but in other areas of support and assistance. But on behalf of Mr Skinner's question, I thought I should focus on: I believe that competitiveness as a broader concept is an absolutely essential issue. Indeed, it is not just cost- and price-competitiveness, but it is a wide-ranging entity based on knowledge and access to skilled labour, where we are currently seeing the biggest bottlenecks in our competitiveness. I am very pleased that in 2017 the RD inputs in Finland went up for the first time in eight years — a great competitiveness factor. But competitiveness factors are also such as a secure society and a society in which services play. These are of enormous importance when companies, for example, wonder where they are investing and where they are expanding. If we compare with Sweden, which you raised, then what is certainly our big difference is that Sweden has a completely different kind of capital. That is why we need to ensure that our taxation and the business environment are such that investments are made in Finland, that capital is generated and raised in Finland. As a single factor here, I would like to highlight, for example, the equity savings account, which, with national capitalism, hopefully removes from the EUR 85 billion that are currently in bank accounts, more for the use of Finnish companies and more for capital for new investments and jobs. Competitiveness is therefore very wide-ranging, and I dare say that when you look under these headlines, which I have just mentioned, the government has done a great deal to maintain competitiveness. One is that we are sustainable and the public finances that we are now discussing are healthy. Otherwise, I can see a lot in those ideas for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u349	Let us now go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u350	Madam President! We want Finland, where it is good for people to live and study, work and raise children, grow old and be safe even when they are weak and in trouble. And we want Finland where the debt burden is not left to the future Finns. We Greens do not want to leave debt any more in euros, in social terms, than in terms of climate emissions or in terms of the consumption of natural resources. It is up to the decision-makers to act responsibly and to make decisions with which everyone could reasonably live. We do not believe that the government has done all of this. The government forces low incomes to bear a greater burden on the economy's savings than the high-paid and capital income earners. What is alarming is that the government does not see a change of direction as relevant. Wealth is too unevenly distributed, health and well-being differences are too large. Although Finland’s economy is improving, there are too many Finnish pensioners, families and children who are facing a turn for the better. Poverty is so deep in some people and it goes from one generation to the next that the state of Finland should not be offset just by talking about growth. Mr President! Education cuts are short-sighted policies. They threaten to undermine the equality, territorial accessibility and quality of education. Education is the most important key to Finland’s success, the guarantee of our future, but not all of our young people will get a good chance of survival as the education network, teaching provision and the quality of teaching decreases. Not everyone can keep up when the resources for training are not allocated according to needs. In order to safeguard the quality of education and reduce inequalities, these cuts must be withdrawn. This is what we have proposed without taking any more debt next year than what the government is proposing. Mr President! According to Statistics Finland’s population forecast, this year is the third consecutive year when more people die in Finland than they are born. The number of young people in Finland is likely to decrease considerably. It is time to reflect on what all the life of young adults and families causes insecurity and is threatening. Solutions must be sought vigorously. One of Finland’s main threats for the future is the deterioration of the dependency ratio, and this should be reflected even more clearly in the draft budget. Mr President! The Greens have called for ambitious climate action and a reduction in emissions. We are in favour of international responsibility — securing the future for all. Today’s children and young people are thinking globally, experiencing great anxiety about environmental problems and climate change, and are frustrated by the slowness of decision-makers to react, preparing for a future that they must control even when the whole world changes. Even a child understands that all countries need to do a lot to turn global emissions growth into safe borders. That is why we would rather cut emissions and polluting business subsidies than the quality and availability of education or the security of people's livelihood. Climate change must be combated effectively now, so that we do not exceed the critical limit of 1.5°C — delaying or putting short-term interests ahead — even if it requires radical decisions. It is more important than its own popularity to think about intergenerational justice and the future of the earth. Mr President! The climate impact of projects from raw materials to waste should be assessed and carefully taken into account in order to make the economy and growth truly sustainable. Mr President! Referring to climate change: Government decisions have led to a worrying fall in the level of funding for development cooperation from the 0.7% recommended by the UN. The level of funding paid by Finland has fallen to around 0.4 per cent of gross national income. It is high time that emissions auction revenues were directed towards development cooperation. In the planning of expenditure and revenue, the value base becomes visible. The starting point should be the reduction of inequality between people and fair responsibility for our environment. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgets in particular for the increase in appropriations for the Saami Language Capital and Sámi Language Base activities, as well as for the funds allocated to organic research by the Natural Resources Centre and research into CO2 emissions from peatland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u351	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank the government for making money for food aid and also for investing in the security of the Jewish congregation. Is politics guided by an international monetary elite or by politicians? On the other hand, nothing new under the sun. As far back as the 19th century, Nathan Rothschild said that ‘I give a nation’s money,and I don’t care who the law is’. Finland gave away its own monetary policy as the only Nordic country. When do you admit that mistake? The euro crisis is the result of the mutual confusion between economic elites and political power users, which is paid for by an ordinary citizen, but those responsible are not held accountable. It would be good to bear in mind that the rights of debtors are human rights. Have we made patriotic decisions? No, we're not. Caruna's sale wasn't in the best interest of the country. This was a mistake made by the Greens, the Coalition Party, the Left and the Democrats in their country. It is obvious that selling a local monopoly is not good for Finnish citizens. You can only envy Norway, who held the decision-making power and stayed outside the EU. Think of all the ways in which the EU would now be avenged on Norway if Norway now announced that it wanted to leave the EU. The Norwegian Oil Fund is approximately 16 times the size of the Finnish state budget. The oil fund belongs to the Norwegian people. This is how a state can be run. Wealth is kept to our own people,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u352	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u354	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u356	Madam President! First of all, for Mr Huhtasaari’s information, the only person in the Committee of Ministers’ Committee of Ministers 2013 who opposed the sale of Fortum’s electricity networks to Caruna was Arhinmäki from the Left Alliance — for information, if you have not yet read it in the media or in any protocols. [singing of Laura Huhtasaari — Olavi Ala-Nissilä’s interlude] On the other hand, I believe that on this occasion too, when we are discussing next year's budget, we must focus on that budget book. If there are a lot of things in the budget book that should be added but probably also deleted, then they should be focused on rather than on non-essential issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u360	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u361	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u362	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u363	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u365	Mr President! As far as Mr Huhtasaari's speech is concerned, I agree with his statement that if Finland had as much oil as Norway, it would be much easier to deal with this country's affairs. Unfortunately, however, it is not, and that is why we really have to stick to Finnish competitiveness. I want to go back to the debut at the beginning as to what really happened then in 2015, just to refresh my memory: After all, the situation was that the competitiveness of Finnish work was 15 per cent lower than that of our main competitors in Sweden and Germany. Then the new government set out to tackle the problem and began by extending working hours. If that had been done with an extension of working time — and now I am not talking about the extension of 24 hours, but an extension of 100 hours — then that competitiveness would have been corrected properly at once. Well, it didn't work out, and SAK counter-offered that some of the charges previously paid by the employer were transferred to the employees. The government responded by reducing the tax burden on employees, and they are now the famous major tax cuts which are then criticised here for causing inequality. That's what this was all about. On this issue of holiday money, I would like to say that it is true that when the situation was so difficult with regard to public finances, the objective was that working time should also be extended in the public sector, for example by tackling holidays that are longer in the public sector than in the private sector. It did not go to employee organisations, and in return they offered to remove the holiday money. This was how it went, and I am most surprised that the SDP still does not admit here that the SDP was behind the giggles and thus behind the removal of the holiday money. The Left Alliance has never been in favour of kiky; it must be admitted. It has been wrong all along, and it is good that it is still in the same line. Without this kiky and these other measures, which have improved the way work is done in Finland, we would not now have the 115,000 jobs and the balance of state finances, certainly not. At least half of the jobs, as we have the research data, are directly due to the measures taken by the government, where it has been absolutely essential to moderate the risk of the employer and also to improve the profitability of low-paid work in relation to unemployment security. Mr President! As far as the future is concerned, we now see that economic growth is slowing down — today's forecast is that next year to one and a half per cent and that in the future the long-term growth rate will be one per cent — and at the same time, due to the age structure of the population, we have a sustainability deficit of 4% of GDP. Of course, promoting work-related immigration can improve this situation somewhat, but the challenge is significant. Education, social security and social and health services in the welfare society will remain high-quality for all Finns only if the employment rate continues to rise. The current forecast of 73.3% in 2021, which is clearly higher than the government's original objective, is not yet sufficient, but we need to reach an 80% level. In my opinion, there are two options for Finland at the moment: Continue with the work line, i.e. to ensure international competitiveness, to increase local reconciliation, to dismantle incentives traps through social security reform, to maintain consideration, but to involve more people and bring them into the labour market. It's the positive cycle. Of course, then we can also go down the path of obsolescence, which is to increase the tax burden on businesses and, above all, to abolish the self-reduction of the self-employed, to retain all the benefits that have been achieved, whether they are business subsidies or labour market issues, to give no room for foreign workers, to give up incentives for the unemployed, [Li Andersson's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u366	Mr President! In this speech, I will take a position on the budget, mainly on the basis of the themes raised in the opinion of the Committee on the Future and on other matters, then on some sections when they come to this Chamber for debate. One of the biggest differences between the government and the Social Democrats in next year's budget concerns future investment. Finland needs investment in the future right now. Investment is not the same as an increase in expenditure. The investment is made on the basis that it pays itself back. Wise and courageous investments are as vital to the vitality of society as they are to companies. For example, the government neglects future investment in health and well-being, prevention of social exclusion among young people, education, science, research and innovation. For example, savings in education and training are threatening to cause major additional costs for society in the future. In each of its own budgetary statements, the Committee on the Future has unanimously stressed the importance of the welfare economy in parallel with traditional economic thinking. The welfare economy would make different welfare indicators available alongside GDP and this very welfare investment thinking I mentioned earlier. The situation picture of the welfare economy and the longer-term risk assessment should be an integral part of budget preparation. This government has not been able to reform its thinking and, in part, that is why it has gone down the road where the poorest and the most vulnerable people have been cut the most. Thus many Finns have been brought into a situation where money is not enough to satisfy basic needs. In particular, families with children, students, long-term unemployed and low-income pensioners have been forced to pay for government savings. Mr President! One of the Government’s objectives at the beginning of the Government’s term was to increase the culture of experimentation. I myself am a supporter of the experimental culture in many ways, but the experimental culture is not suitable for legislative work. The draft laws must be based on research evidence and sufficiently wide-ranging expert opinions. The problem with this government has been that the drafting of legislative proposals has been weak, and it even feels that the experiments have been incorporated into the legislative work. The pilots of the Sote reform have been a good example of this. In the name of pilots, things have been moved forward before even legislation exists. In the case of the social reform, whatever it may be, it would be worthwhile to proceed gradually, so that, on the basis of experience from different regions, it would be possible to correct errors. Another example of the introduction of an experimental culture into legislative work is now the law on dismissal introduced into Parliament as a budget law. In its impact assessment, the government itself admits that the impact of the law cannot be known, since the scope of the law is not established until after legal proceedings have taken place. It could take up to four to five years. That's quite an experiment. Mr President! Then what can we try? During the next government term, it would be very important to try phenomena-based budgeting. That is also what the Committee on the Future has put forward in every budget opinion. It takes over the border fences of the ministries and takes over something of social importance in such a way that the selected development site becomes one of the cross-ministerial money pots, budget funding, while at the same time agreeing to lead this experiment. The current government promised to pilot phenomena-based budgeting at the beginning of this government term. Now, in its final budget, the government claims that sustainable development will be reflected in next year's budget as such a common phenomenon. Somehow it seems that the idea of phenomena-based budgeting has not really been opened up, because sustainable development as a whole is far too broad for experimenting with phenomena-based budgeting. The fact that every ministry mentions sustainable development does not make the draft budget phenomena-based. The SDP has proposed that the next government should try real phenomena-based budgeting, for example, to prevent the exclusion of young people or to eliminate digital neutrality. Investing in these issues would be a very important investment in the future, and these proposals can be found, for example, in our alternative budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u367	Mr President! Climate change challenges both food production and forestry. We may have a longer growing season, but the disadvantages will outweigh the benefits. The role of agriculture and forestry in combating climate change is important, precisely because of the carbon sequestration capacity of our forests and fields. Research in the field of natural resources will provide information on forests, food, water and plant protection that is widely needed to combat climate change, both for the important needs of industry and our decision-makers. I met a reporter on the bus today who had visited Luke's Jokioisten unit today. He was absolutely convinced that excellent research was being done there. He heard how Luke’s research in Finland is finding new possibilities to replace antibiotics, for example, by using insects. Many sectors of the bioeconomy and circular economy also have strong growth, which requires stronger research-based data to support bioeconomy investments. Research therefore serves both us decision-makers and different industries, namely agriculture and forestry, forestry, nature tourism and so on. Climate change and its effects are also a subject of widespread public interest. In this situation, as more research in the field of natural resources is needed, I find it very bad that the decision taken by the Government of the last parliamentary term in September 2013 to transfer the research funds of research institutes into a single bag to be distributed by the Council of Strategic Research in the Academy of Finland. During this parliamentary term, for example, EUR 79.2 million of research funds in agriculture and forestry have been transferred for other purposes and only EUR 4 million has been recovered. This is simply an unimaginable equation. The claim that the Natural Resources Agency did not succeed in its research money projects is a false explanation. The truth is that the topics of the Government's research strategy have not allowed for research searches. Finland cannot afford to leave natural resource research funding to the Academy of Finland. We've seen it. It is extremely important that ministers now explore the possibility of getting the vital research money from the Academy of Finland back to the research needs of the ministries. There may then be a negotiating board to decide how to use them. This has to succeed because we cannot afford to give up research in the fight against climate change. On the contrary, this research should be significantly increased. In other words, the natural resource sector needs its own research money and its own item. This is the case in other Nordic countries, among other things. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say a few more thoughts about Parliament's working methods and debate culture when I have been given this forum and this debate for more than 30 years: After all, Parliament is the most valuable forum for democracy in Finland, where we parliamentarians hold our most important political debates. It is up to our representatives to restore the dignity that they deserve in the debates in the Chamber and respect for each other. I think that this autumn has already made quite good progress. Different views and opinions are part of politics, but their presentation can take place with dignity and substance. Deliberate misunderstanding and personalization are not part of dignified conduct, but people also do not want to watch and listen to such conversation. If we do not perform with dignity ourselves, we should not expect others to appreciate our parliamentary work. The political debate has become too much of a union. Now, Mr President, I have been thinking a lot about this and I have come to the conclusion that the long debatable portions of the debate make it possible to make this surface glue possible. That is why I hope that the debate sessions will be considered to be shortened and that there will be more actual, well-founded speeches. In politics, I need much more in-depth reflection than we are wearing here, especially in these debatations. They are also needed, but I think there may be too many at the moment. We have been chosen to make decisions for the good of the nation. After all, together we have built one of the most successful welfare states in the world, which we are currently working on. This requires us to be able to cooperate on the basis of mutual trust, to be civilised and to have a genuine will. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u368	Madam President! The government should be congratulated on the budgetary surplus as a surprise gift. Even if it is backed by the proceeds from the sale of assets and other items, that is a good sign. Improvements in both central government finances and employment are, of course, primarily the result of the recovery of the international economy. Exports sometimes draw Finland up fast. Also, recessions are most often imported goods. However, even in the short term, the importance of own economic policy is not negligible. Budgetary policy must be implemented in such a way that it does not at least exacerbate cyclical fluctuations. This is difficult because governments are tempted to scale savings and borrowings according to the political calendar rather than the impact on the international economy. The beginning of the year brings uncertainty. The European Central Bank has announced that it will end its borrowing programme, which will eliminate one factor that will stimulate the economy. If the Central Bank's signal of interest increases take place next summer, monetary policy will also intensify in this respect. We have not really been able to see how much the European Central Bank's policy has softened Finland's past years of recession, and that is why we may not be able to anticipate the effects of monetary policy tightening. The coming Brexit disaster and the opening trade wars with both China and the EU are hampering the global economy. Forecasts based on macroeconomic figures may well underestimate the importance of international trade. These forecasts always assume that economic policy will adapt to a reduction in export demand, but at present there is little room for adjustment. Governments are in debt and the central banks have little room for manoeuvre. For Finland and our main trading partners, the collapse of international trade is, in any case, a serious place. Those people who support extreme ideas who enjoy Brexit and Trump do not, at least, follow the principle of Finland first. Madam President! Although Finland’s economic policy is limited in its ability to offset the cyclical fluctuations in export demand, the government’s responsibility for the whole economic development is not limited. Our own decisions affect the growth path of the economy. Important solutions relate to the structure of the economy. It is the responsibility of the public authorities to ensure that market failures are addressed. The market does not generate enough human capital. A significant part of research and product development is a public sector task. Basic research is more or less entirely jointly paid for. In addition to research, training must also be organised jointly and with public funds. Employers do, of course, offer continuing training and job-oriented training, but not the basis of education and knowledge that is essential for development. In this respect, the government has, as we know, failed to do its job. The savings in education and training have already led to skills gaps. The future seems to be wide: at the same time as the workforce is falling, its level of education is falling. These are phenomena we've never seen before. As far as research and education are concerned, I will take the example of Northern Finland for good reason. Due to the cuts made by the Finnish Government to the funding of universities, the funding of the University of Oulu has decreased by a total of EUR 7.6 million since 2015. The University of Oulu accounts for approximately 9 per cent of the basic funding received by Finnish universities, although 13 per cent of the Finnish population and 15 per cent of the youth age group live in the regions of Northern Ostrobothnia, Central Ostrobothnia and Kainuu in the area of direct influence of the university. The share of financing is also lower than the share of enterprises in Northern Finland in the value added of enterprises in the whole country. When measuring the financial contribution and the relative share of education or research, the funding of the University of Oulu is strongly undersized in relation to its impact. I have therefore proposed, by means of a budget initiative, that budget cuts be made to: On the basis of the social significance of the University of Oulu and the undercompensation of its basic funding, the University of Oulu should receive additional funding to cancel the cuts. I could also take a similar example of vocational education and training. There, too, cuts are particularly unreasonable in the area of young people in the Oulu region. However, I understand that the problem of vocational training is equally acute everywhere. You could even talk about young people's abandonment. In addition to human capital, education, infrastructure, public authorities are also responsible for physical infrastructure. A favourable location is today and will continue to be the cornerstone of economic success, and since Finland is a country of long distances and far from the centres of the economy, we need to address the problem of location by taking care of the transport network. We must have ports that are usable, roads and railways in good condition. Here, too, I will take an example of the development of Northern Finland. One of the most important destinations of our transport network is the so-called Finnish railway line from Helsinki to Oulu through Tampere and Tornio. Rail freight and passenger transport would enable an economic growth corridor to support the development of the entire nation and shift a larger part of transport to the most environmentally sustainable form. The objective of developing passenger transport should be to reduce travel time between Oulu and Helsinki to 4 hours and to ensure the growth potential of heavy goods transport. We are dealing with the budget for the election year. We hope that the debate on the economy will also be the main themes of next spring's elections. For their part, the Social Democrats have drawn up their objectives in such a way that Finland can develop a fair welfare society on the basis of a sustainable economy. Fairness is needed for the balanced development of different regions. It is needed to secure income for students, entrepreneurs, employees, the unemployed and pensioners. People accept savings and sacrifices if they are based on their sense of justice. Arbitrary cuts raise protests and lead to the failure to carry out the necessary reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u369	Madam President! In my view, the government's proposal for next year's budget, which is now on the table, can be described in one short sentence: we are now moving from debt to debt. The explanations as to whether this is artificial or what it is are, in my view, strange explanations. The most important thing is that the economy has started to grow and we have a genuine opportunity to start shortening our debts. We must certainly not live in the way that our children and grandchildren pay our debts. So the growth has begun. We'll do everything we can to hold on to it. Local government finances have recovered, unemployment has fallen, public finances are on a sustainable basis. During the last parliamentary term, the budgetary position deteriorated by EUR 38.5 billion. It's just a cold fact, the chapter of the Government report, I didn't come up with it myself, I don't have such a vivid imagination. The employment rate currently stands at nearly 72 per cent, which is exactly 4 percentage points more than four years ago. Of course, central government debt is still in worrying size at the moment, but it seems to have begun its decline as we keep our heads cold and our feet warm. The employment rate target should be 75%. There is a lot of talk in this country about how we manage our economy. The only right way is to increase the ability of Finns to get along independently with their own work, cutting unemployment and seeking new economic opportunities together — not all of us alone, but all of us together. However, the government has been exemplary in this situation. In 2015, we were in a forced situation. We were genuinely on the European Commission's watch list and were already there. The Commission's intervention was not far off, and two of the three major rating agencies had already shown us their thumbs down. On the basis of that one hope, we lived that the downgrading of the credit rating did not come and the interest rate did not go up. If anyone suspects that we were strong at the time, that's not exactly true. In any case, fortunately, the Commission did not intervene, and then we came to the right conclusion: we had to improve our cost-competitiveness. The difference between the last government and this government is essentially this improvement in cost competitiveness. We were 10 percentage points behind our rival countries, and that is a terrible figure when we start selling similar products on the same market. The results of Finnish work were not sold in Europe at the time, that's why it was all there, including the massive unemployment. But it's different now. Currently from the provinces of Finland Kainuu must be an example of the greatest shortage of labour and the increasing number of jobs being created. I remember those conversations when Terrafame was being driven down and bankrupted. It would have cost the state 500 million immediately plus something, but now it is producing good for the state and it is producing good returns, and precisely so that there are about a thousand jobs and then its multiplier effects are many times greater. This is an example of not wanting to go for the first flutter, but to do your homework well and then draw wise conclusions. Now we're on that road. Good things happen in forestry. I'm a little surprised to hear a conversation about how much we get to beat up. Antti Rinne introduced his own forest line, the model of the slope, that 72.4 million pikes should be stopped. Today's line was to beat as much as the soul tolerates, so he said in his own speech in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u371	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u372	Mr President! Workable and high-quality basic services, health care, elderly services, early childhood education, day care, basic education, social services and employment care are essential building blocks for well-being, equality between citizens and a fair society. They are the cornerstones of well-being that public authorities can influence if they so wish. For the time being, the municipalities have at least been able to carry out their basic task of organising and providing the services necessary for citizens' everyday lives. The government, ultimately the parliament, is the body that, through legislation and its annual budget, determines the framework conditions and the margin of manoeuvre that the municipalities have at their disposal. The government cannot shirk its financial responsibilities. It is good to be aware that, while we want to improve services and impose new obligations, it is our responsibility to ensure that the basic conditions for their implementation at municipal level are in order. I believe the government is aware of all this. It is completely incomprehensible that, despite this, it has decided to continue to cut the central government shares by nearly EUR 300 million next year. The policy line chosen by the government has not supported education, basic services, social security, local government finances, families, the most vulnerable, let alone the well-being of the elderly. The cuts to education alone have been billions. Today we return to the government's proposal to freeze the National Pensions Index to the level of the current year. Two level cuts have already been made in the past period, and these freezes come on top of them. The decision concerns national pension and guarantee pension, but also disability benefits, minimum daily allowances under the Health Insurance Act, basic daily allowance, labour market support and child increases, even those in the breast. The Centre justified the freezing in the debat today in this Chamber, saying that it is not possible to remove them without a legal amendment. So the government itself has passed the law that it is now running away from in this matter. In the speeches of the government groups, we have heard what needs to be done in the future. At the same time, let us not tell you what has actually been done. Now, in the last year, there are some improvements and additions to the budget, but surely no one in this Chamber can seriously claim that they will correct or eliminate the damage or human suffering caused by the cuts that have been made. We have been living at the peak of an economic upturn, and there would have been room for action. Now we know that the cycle is falling apart. What is the logic on which the government relies when it says that it is never the right time to invest in the well-being, growth or development of citizens? Do you think that the moment will come when the national economic curves turn south-east? Do you really believe that our country will manage without investment in the future? Where are the government's future investments? Mr President! The humanity of society is measured by its ability to care for its most vulnerable members. Its wisdom is measured by its ability to invest and understand in services and structures that build a foundation for future prosperity and sustainable growth, and by its success in securing all stability of the rocky foot, social peace. The gradual or one-off shutdown of key basic services, social support networks and education will lead our society in a direction where social and mental capital, knowledge, decline and inequality and injustice are increasing. It continues to undermine the basic security of people, especially children and young people, to create a lack of vision and to take away hope for a better future. Eventually, it gives rise to bitterness and hatred as a result. The presence of that anger today is visible and audible. It is no longer a much-spoken threat; it is a reality. If we do not get into the pain spots of our society today, we cannot expect tomorrow, let alone the future, to be any better. As a Social Democrat, I cannot accept the Government's draft budget for 2019. I support the objection made by our group and every single statement contained in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u373	Madam President! Now that we are making the final budget for this parliamentary term, we may have to recall the starting position from which we started. At the time, the legacy of the previous government and the previous Parliament was quite difficult and bad for this Parliament, so it was necessary to take very substantial adjustment measures — the same adjustment measures that had already been attempted during the last parliamentary term, but unfortunately it had not been possible to catch up with the growth in the world economy that has been reached during this parliamentary term. In other words, adjustments were made, but the Finnish economy did not start to grow. Today we have heard many times about how, for example, index freezes have been criticised, and, of course, they are very annoying and unpleasant. And the opposition also knows why index freezes have been made, because you yourself have also been making them into different benefits during the last parliamentary term: the very same reason that the state is still in debt. The difference is, of course, that employment has improved during this period. Employment has certainly improved not only as a result of the international market situation, but also as a result of the many efforts made to promote growth in central government policies. The end of the last parliamentary term: 100,000 people lost their jobs. The end of this parliamentary term will be for the government to achieve, even historically, the employment objective it has set itself, the employment objective that so many people criticise in this Chamber three and a half years ago. Very few governments have achieved their economic policy objectives. The fact that almost 120,000 people have been able to work is not a trivial matter at all, but a very important thing: not only from the perspective of these people, but also from the perspective of the whole Finnish economy and the future of this country. I would really like to comment on a few points raised in that general debate. First of all, if you look at Finnish climate policy, our Environment Minister, Kimmo Tiilikainen, just came from Katowice from the climate negotiations and played a very important role there with the other Nordic countries. If you are thinking of the Finnish forestry industry, the current opposition was concerned about it during the last parliamentary term, for example, and provided for an energy tax cutter — the business support you are now criticising here. It was decreed during the last parliamentary term when the opposition was in power. That was certainly justifiable, because then unemployment plunged and every effort was made to hold on to domestic industrial jobs. Now our industry has again been caught up in the growth of the world economy. This same thing can be done, for example, by reducing the electricity tax. As a result, criticism of the opposition for subsidies to companies is not quite fair, because you have been tampering with them yourself. Instead, this government is making legal changes, prohibiting coal or introducing, for example, a blending obligation for biofuels, which is currently being discussed in Parliament. In conclusion, perhaps I should like to raise the issue of basic security, because it is, of course, a very important issue for the centre and also relates to the way in which the minimum daily allowance has been raised during this parliamentary term, despite the fact that the economic situation has been very difficult. It was very good and important that an increase of EUR 100 was made in unemployment security during the previous parliamentary term. But why on earth did they fail to increase the minimum benefits for all the most vulnerable people when it comes to sickness allowances, parental allowances, paternity and maternity allowances? The fact that you get 80 euros a net month for more money in your purse is a very big increase for these people. Or another matter related to basic security, a guarantee pension, created during Matti Vanhanen's reign. However, even during this parliamentary term, between the beginning of the beginning of the parliamentary term and the end of the parliamentary term, three times it has been possible to make a withdrawal from the guarantee pension. Unfortunately, during the last parliamentary term, the index of guarantee pension, for example, was frozen in 14 C.E. At the time, there were no increases in guaranteed pensions. So, in these difficult times, despite them, it has also been possible to make significant increases in the level of basic security, which I consider to be a very good achievement of central policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u374	Madam President! Today, when we have dealt with the budget for next year, we can say that this is the last reading of the budget for this parliamentary term. During this parliamentary term, Finland has changed direction. As we have heard in many speeches today, some 115,000 new jobs have been created in Finland during this parliamentary term, which has meant, among other things, a significant reduction in long-term unemployment and youth unemployment. The employment rate has risen from around 68% to 72%. In addition, export companies have been experiencing an upward trend and the economy is growing. GDP will grow in the current year by about 2.5 per cent. At the same time, central government debt will be reduced. This year is the first time in ten years that it has been possible to do this. This budget proposal is based on the fact that everyone is involved in Finland. This means that care is being taken, among other things, of people on low incomes, the taxation of pensioners, employees, etc., will be reduced as a result of an increase in the basic deduction from municipal taxation. Other aspects of care are that the homelessness is being given increasing attention and relief, that the minimum daily allowance will rise to EUR 80 per month, and that resources will also be added to the important home help. One very important measure for young people, for children studying, is that EUR 47 per month will be allocated to schoolbooks for young people in deprived families. This makes it possible for young people to study equally. And it is very important for pensioners that once again the guarantee pension is increased, this time EUR 9 per month. The positive development of employment has also led to a shortage of labour in many regions. As a result, it has been important to take measures to improve labour mobility. Labour shortages can also be alleviated by retraining people and completing their skills through various courses. The budget proposal includes an additional EUR 20 million for these items. The bridge contract model for south-west Finland would also be a good example for many regions to deal with labour shortages. The budget proposal is also based on increasing attention to security. Adding EUR 36 million to the police budget means that the number of policemen can be kept in the order of magnitude of around 7200 and that more police resources will also be allocated to sparsely populated areas. Security investments can also be regarded as increases made here in parliamentary procedure. For example, 300,000 for the search for missing foreigners, half a million for the training of emergency services and more than EUR 200,000 for school police activities. Increasing border controls by around half a million also has a significant security investment. In addition, more than EUR 25 million are added to transport projects, and in terms of citizens' comfort and outdoor mobility, it is significant that nearly EUR 3 million are invested in national parks, thus improving their comfort. EUR 1.8 million for agricultural advisory services and EUR 600000 for 4H activities are both of particular importance in rural areas. The export business is supported, among other things, by the support of the Viexpo Export Cooperative by the Parliament for some EUR 170000. Madam President! Now that the sectional discussion starts tomorrow, it will then be easier to pay attention to these details, but these are the key guidelines that will make Finland's budget for next year even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u375	Madam President! After all, this past economic upturn started with a strong growth in construction in Finland. And it is true that some years ago construction was rather small in Finland, but now, as it were, the building pressure has accumulated, especially in the largest growth centres, the last three or four years have been very rapid, which has also led to a strong increase in the price of housing and the price of housing. At the same time, however, the State has supported affordable housing construction and will continue to support it next year. After all, this draft budget now includes interest subsidies of 1.41 billion, and it will indeed remain at its current level, as it has been this year. Indeed, this proposal allows the construction of 9000 subsidised dwellings in this country. Personally, I see a significant need for it, because the rise in the price of housing is one of the most burdensome expenditure items for households, especially households with low incomes, and in this respect this affordable housing production is still needed. Similarly, investment grants for the 110 million special groups will remain at their level, which is also good, because there is still a need for them, especially in view of the housing of the elderly, and I believe that, as the population ages, these subsidies will be needed even more in the years to come if and when we want to support living in the home of the elderly and the survival and survival of the elderly active at home. Also now, the ARA's disassembly mandate will be slightly increased to EUR 3 million next year. This is an important hand-out for areas that are losing population, where there are numerous empty rental dwellings. In fact, it is sometimes better to dismantle these indecent dwellings than to impose all those costs on the remaining tenants — but they are mostly the most vulnerable tenants — so it is important that this means be able to support and facilitate this rationalisation of the housing stock in these specific municipalities, such as very often in the sub-regions, where there is a very large number of rented dwellings built with arable loans. Indeed, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection we dealt very comprehensively with this budget for the coming year and took a position on the development of the MAL agreements. After all, these are voluntary agreements which agree certain measures between the major urban regions and the state to support its development in these areas. This is a very good and important approach and approach. I personally see that the MAL procedure should also be extended to other regional centres and growth centres. For example, localities the size of Jyväskylä, Lahti are growth centers where this could be used, so that more comprehensive agreements could be reached on, among other things, transport, housing and other types of community solutions, together with the state and its urban area. There would be a huge need for this, and the city of Jyväskylä in particular is behind this. Otherwise, this contractual approach between the state and municipalities, for example in the regions, is a good model. Here the previous speaker, Mrs Hautala, referred to this so-called bridge agreement solution in south-west Finland, which is an example of how to manage such a positive structural change. But I believe that this type of contractualism would be needed more, and I believe that the regional town programme now launched by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs will certainly also provide answers to what these models could be like with smaller municipalities. Finally, for this housing: After all, next year, the ARA will be allocated EUR 400000 for a pilot project on co-operative housing. I personally see that, in addition to the current options, i.e. rental housing, owner-occupied housing and right-of-occupancy housing, it would also be good to find out how such a cooperative model could work. And with gratitude I have noted that a project of this kind has also been included here in the draft budget for next year, and for that, thank you, it belongs to the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u376	Mr President! The high economic cycle is folding, economic growth is slowing down to a more subdued level than previously predicted. Finland's economic growth will be 2.5% this year, and next year it is expected to fall to 1.5%. World trade is slowing down as barriers to trade increase, which slows down export growth and is currently reflected in investment expectations. In addition to the normal economic cycle, the growth of the global economy is also slowed down by the partial realisation of trade conflicts between key economies. According to forecasts, Finland's economy would only grow by 1.1 per cent in 21 years. In the medium term, the growth forecast is below 1%, which is slower than the growth of potential output. We therefore need higher employment and stronger growth. This can only be achieved by increasing the productive potential of the economy. More labour, more investment and more productivity with high skills. Mr President! The growth rate of around 1% in the coming years will be insufficient to finance expenditure pressure, particularly as a result of the ageing population. Although good cyclical conditions and measures to curb expenditure growth are now strengthening the fiscal balance and while public debt relative to GDP will fall in the coming years, public finances will gradually deteriorate again from the early years of the 2020s. The longer population projection published by Statistics Finland and its lower assumptions about birth rate and migration have also increased the sustainability deficit estimate. As age-related expenditure increases and economic growth becomes subdued, in the long term there will be an imbalance between government expenditure and revenue of almost 4% of GDP. We therefore need more structural reforms, reforms that increase economic resources and make existing resources more efficient. This cannot under any circumstances be left as an excessive burden for future generations. Mr President! Central government finances must be put on a stronger footing before the next downturn, otherwise the financing of services in our welfare society will not rest on a sustainable basis. Although Finland is reducing debt right now, for the first time in 10 years, we cannot afford significant expenditure increases in the next parliamentary term, let alone now. I also call for a gradual increase in the employment rate to 75% and later to 80%. If these objectives are missed, it will again be aware of the indebtedness of billions. There have been many speeches about the last period and here, for example, a representative. My corner was talking about this, so I thought I would say a few words about this too. Last season, those who remember it were indeed a transition from one crisis to another after the financial crisis. We came to Nokia's collapse, which took some 8 billion of our central government finances together with the erosion of the forest industry in Eastern and Northern Finland, including Kajaani. And then, last season, savings amounted to between six and seven billion dollars. He who says nothing was done does not know what was done there. Anyone who says nothing was done, does not know what was done for the maritime industry in Varsinais-Suomi, does not know what was done for example for Transtech when VR was forced to buy the first railway wagons there. Now they're all thriving. The forest industry has also begun to flourish again. Last season there was also a reduction in corporation tax, with which we laid the foundations for growth being possible. In other words, if it appears in the economic cycle that 100,000 jobs were lost in the last period and now 120000 to 115,000 were brought back, they are, of course, in numbers, correct, but do not describe the development and the decisions that have been taken here. So we've all been trying to do better. To take this into account. For example, Terrafame: In our past, about five years ago, the export to Kainuu amounted to a few ten million, 30 million. This year, thanks to Terrafame, our exports are 300 million. Next year it will be over 400 million, and then when that battery chemical plant runs, it will be over 650 million from just one factory. In addition to that, there will be others there, for example, the first shops in Mannheim have been rescued by Transtech, which is the current factory in Škoda last season, and its exports will rise to a few hundred million. As Chairman of the Board of Directors, I represent a company such as KaiCell Fibers, who will change fibrewood from Kainuu forests to exports to the textile industry, and its exports will be between 300 and 400 million per year. This brings us to another billion in exports. I hope that all the other provinces will go along with this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u377	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Today we have had a good debate here, and it is a pleasure to hear that we are living in a surplus and employment is on the rise and the boom is coming, and that sounds really good. But sometimes it felt as they listened to this debate and the government’s answers, from such an old famous statement that ‘if you don’t have any bread, so eat bread’. It seemed that when there was so much emphasis on good things happening here, then the little things behind it want to be forgotten. I myself am on the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and I am now drawing attention to the social and health sector, and I must say that I was very surprised at the debate here that the reason for the Committee on Social Affairs and Health was that the surgery of the war veterans' brooch had not been reversed. The opposition has been making a lot of noise about it, but it is not in our hands, but it is the government's job. If the government doesn't do its job there in the Social Security Committee or anything else, what can we do about it? The opposition will do their job. That’s where Mr Simon Elo was a bit glaring and said that ‘whenJuvonenkinonsonsin the committee had been as busy as he had been doing his duties’. When I'm the only representative there, I'm sure I'm sitting in my seat, but it doesn't always mean that there's always those backup representatives sitting there, by name. But with these thoughts, I'm going to move on. The Finns Party wants to aim and invest in Finland and Finns by offering our country a new, better and fairer direction, not only for the next year or the next parliamentary term, but also for the period beyond the parliamentary term. We are very concerned about the elderly in Finland and about the rich getting rich and the poor getting poorer. I'm afraid it's like this. One illness per year, a month, causes an elderly person’s budget to go completely out of control and fall below the poverty line. The increase in medical fees should be curbed, and one way in which we could respond to the fact that even the elderly would be able to do well there in their homes and be able to buy their medicines instead of wondering whether I would buy the food or bread, would be to remove the exclusivity of medicines periodically or to make a significant calculation for the two lowest income deciles, or, alternatively, to introduce a combined cap on pharmaceuticals and travel expenses. So there are ways. True Finns worry about the inadequacy of home care and the fact that we do not have enough caring hands in the homes. The Government’s key project ‘Development of home care for the elderly and strengthening of the treatment Out of sight, out of mind, and here we do not know what is happening in those old and elderly homes after the home nurse has left the house and the aged is left alone. In other words, we really need more investment in care for the elderly, especially home care there — more of the hands of the carers. True Finns feel that the workload of home care nurses is unreasonable, and this situation is not new. It seems that year after year and budget after year we are discussing this. The Finns of Peru suggest that the nurseship should be recorded in the law, because it is the law that has to build the earth and only through the law that we can actually make impact. The recommendations cannot be used to treat the elderly. Madam President! Indeed, we have been talking about the war here, and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities Reijo Vuorento took a stand and wondered that the government had exceptionally little to say about the economic prospects and effects of the wars. It is worth remembering, in future, what many people have said here today, especially about the opposition and the Finns of Peru, that this savings target of EUR 3 billion, which we have before us, will not be achieved. It is the customers, the patients, the Finnish people and the population who are paying with customer fees, the sums and prices of which we still do not know. The well will be bottomless in these costs, and that is certainly what comes before it. It has already been said that the social reform will reduce jobs in women-dominated sectors, which is precisely where the carers are. We're talking about family reform and mothers and women working. I am very concerned about whether it is a job for a woman of the future and short-term employment. For example, there is an area of care there. And then a few more words. It is wonderful that this matter of veterans is dealt with and the degree of disadvantage is reduced in such a way that every veteran of war is able to receive state-funded care in that nursing institution, but I very much resent the way in which the garrison was forgotten here. It is a good thing that, from the beginning of the year, the law will come into force which will make the additional insurance cover for the conscripts effective, but at the moment we are in a position to ensure that the conscripts do not have any additional insurance cover. Until the end of the year, there is a complete lack of additional insurance cover for the conscripts, and this is very unreasonable, it is frightening, it is absolutely terrible and terrifying, because the damage will not come around the neck of the clock and there will still be bad damage there. We are talking about injuries, even deaths, and we have a fresh memory of the death of four young conscripts, which means that there will be no compensation, and I consider this to be unreasonable. I have informed the President of this and asked him that, at the time he goes to sign the law, he should go through that equality perspective again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u378	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u379	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u382	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u383	Madam President! Mr Skinner has clearly been in the opposition for too long.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u384	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u386	Two more replies, Mr Ala-Nissilä and Mr Laukkanen, and Mr Tolppanen. Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u387	Mr President! Congressman Skinner asked some good questions, but the big picture wants to be forgotten. After all, Finland has the first strategic government programme, which has been implemented with great determination. The policy is never perfect, but it has come to these key economic results, all of which have been achieved. What happens in the world? They're canceling all the time. In Italy, we go to the walls, in France we cancel, in Britain we cancel, and in Sweden nothing happens either. Finland has been able to achieve results, and this is a good thing to continue towards more inclusive economic growth. But what is wrong with me is that I cannot read the SDP's economic policy agenda. When I listen to representative Skinner, the tone is quite different from the media-based rhetoric of representative Harakka. In particular, I am concerned that you have a programme to tighten the taxation of entrepreneurship. In the last parliamentary term, taxes were being tightened too much. That was one of the reasons why the economy didn't grow. We should now take the lesson that we must encourage entrepreneurship, employment, and that is not increased by taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u388	Madam President! Mr Skinner's speech was refreshing in such a way that it sounded a bit like it came from the wrong direction, excuse me. There were so many innovative ideas and expectations, but then it got a little late when he said that nothing was really done, although, as Mr Ala-Nissila said, a great deal has been done and tried and found out that we have enormous administrative problems with various reforms, because we are so stuck in certain ways of thinking. The Parliamentary Transport Working Group, which has been considering projects and financing solutions for 50 years, and how Finland could be regarded from the point of view of transport as inhabited and used by good services and business, has had an excellent debate, comparisons with the Nordic countries,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u389	Mr President! This wrong direction was quite a good point here, namely that we are talking about a reduction in unemployment and an increase in employment and poverty, a reduction in birth rates, but, for some reason, child poverty has increased. Someone's coming from the wrong direction now. Someone in this equation doesn't add up. So you might want to take a closer look at those statistics, which is the right thing to do and what is not. One example is this active model, a highly commended employment manager. When we talk about the long-term unemployed, which we have 29,000, we know that one third of them will never be able to work. This government does not want to allow them to retire or to be included in social security, but wants to punish them, to reduce their unemployment benefits, because they are unable to work. That 20,000 doesn't even work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u390	Mr President! Here we are talking about what good the government has done, and certainly there is, but the SDP will not repeat the mistake that we, for example, use top-level projects on behalf of industry to choose what Finland is doing. That is not what we will do, but together with industry we will choose what we will do. In addition, I would like to highlight this situation in Europe as a whole, which is something that you have spoken very highly about: I genuinely fear that the whole of Europe will fall and fall into the role of a subcontractor. China and the United States are taking us, the whole continent, the whole of the European Union. This is not just a concern for Finland; it is a concern for all of us. In addition to this, when you talk about investments, you have considered, but you would have made this budget... For example, the main line: You could say that Finland is becoming ill with coronary heart disease when our traffic is not running. You put EUR 1 million in planning when you needed EUR 50 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u391	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u392	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u393	Then there is Vice-President Pekkarinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u394	Mr President! On behalf of Mr Skinner: When you say that this government has made choices as to the strengths to which it is beginning, does Mr Skinner remember what was the government that first decided on the Strategic Research Council and on the priorities in which it began to invest? - I see you're nodding. Then you will probably also know where this happened. — In addition, more than once in the history of Finland, research and innovation were cut out during the last parliamentary term as long as the government has been in Finland funding research and innovation. This government also operated in the early stages. No more surgery. Now that we're looking at the balance, we're still on the negative side of this government, too, but the last one cut a lot more. However, I think it is worth remembering both of these things that I said: both the strategic choice that has already been made during the previous parliamentary term and the fate of the financing of innovation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u395	Mr. Skinner again, but then we'll go on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u396	Mr President! Mr Pekkarinen rightly remembers, and I very much appreciate the strategic programmes that were created at the time, and I was also involved, as you well remember, in the regional centre programme and its successor, among others. Well, they did know how to do things more strategically back then. I am not saying that this model is a model for the future, but certain things were still chosen in this government programme and at the same time excluded certain things from the future. How are cybertechnologies, artificial intelligence, digitalisation, which are global entities, for example? They are not decided by Finland alone. By this I mean that we should have looked at these entities much more broadly in Nordic and European terms and not closed the doors and windows so that we make closed projects which, moreover, will end in the middle of the season. It doesn't make any sense, it doesn't have continuity! There will be no business development in four years, Mr Pekkarinen. If anyone knows that, it's you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u397	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u398	Mr President! We now have to act on climate change, but why is the government generously distributing environmentally harmful subsidies? Fossil fuel subsidies are about three times higher than renewable energy support. The Government aims at oversized fellings, which halve the carbon sinks of forests by 2030.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u399	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u400	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u401	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u402	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u403	Madam President! I would like to make a brief comment on the debate, and I have already taken the floor. I think it is noteworthy that when we started this parliamentary term, the state took up EUR 6 billion in debt, an additional EUR 6 billion in debt to public finances. What does that mean when people talk about kids here? When we have less than 50,000 children, this 6 billion when divided by the number of children, the annual debt per child born is 120,000. At the beginning of the parliamentary term, such a bond was placed in that maternity kit as a burden for children. You can't do this. After all, all the parties had savings lists. The Social Democratic Party also had, and they no longer remember it: 3 plus 1 billion. I think it is honest to say that when a budget framework is drawn up together, it is a budgetary framework, it cannot be broken in the middle of the parliamentary term, and this has, of course, restricted the activities of all parties. It also bothers me, as has been said here, that the SDP was in support of the Competitiveness Pact but is now denying it. I think this is a policy that I do not think is good. President! For the first time in this parliamentary term, a strategic government programme was carried out in Finland with clear key projects: improving employment, folding debt, bioeconomy, social welfare and regional reform, and new ways of working. It has been implemented with great determination and also with success. Politics is never perfect. There can always be trolling and criticisms, but the greatest line has been taken in the implementation of the strategic government programme, and that is very important because we need room for manoeuvre in the state economy so that we can fight against this inequality. After all, politics has become a lot of rhetoric, including this kind of unnecessary trolling and inability to make compromises, decisions. The look is always too much in the next poll. It's a bad situation in the world, isn't it? If we look at Italy, there populist parties are in power and the economy is headed for the walls. In France, reforms have to be cancelled and debt is far too high. In fact, under the present president, there has never been a surplus of the state budget in France. There's a limit to that, too. The political situation in Britain is very bad. Similarly, nothing happens in Sweden. In the United States, uncertainty is increasing. In Russia too, pension reform will have to be cancelled. On the other hand, I think this is also a sign of non-participation. People are experiencing a lack of participation, even if that is not always the case, and it is important to take this into account. That is why we need to talk and talk about inclusive economic growth today. People are excluded not only by income and work but also, and above all, regionally, also in terms of education and social status. A person can experience a lack of participation. That is why we need more inclusive economic growth, which is what I was talking about in my speech, and the historic line in the centre has always come from there. The most important thing is more jobs. The unemployed face ten times the risk of exclusion from the employed person. When a person gets a job, his family will receive a thousand euros in additional income. This is the big line that's important. It is also important to continue with this. President! Of course, we have to go to the finish line. It is not perfect either, but even those who are now opposed here should be aware that, if this is postponed, of course it will bring more spending on state finances, so it is necessary to carry out social and regional reform. Another issue that is perhaps too little to talk about and which is also a problem and causes exclusion is Finnish food production, which is not in favour at the moment. It is now necessary both at EU level, in Finland and in the market to find solutions, as is now the case with mountain counselor Karhinen to find solutions to improve this profitability. There's got to be a way. Last of all, traffic infrastructure. Much more has been achieved in this parliamentary term, but it has to be said that this is a little short-lived. The Centre has long been talking about transport infrastructure, new financial instruments. The Ministry of Finance needs to move more on this issue. It cannot be thought that operating expenditure and investment expenditure are treated in the same way. Not even a small municipality does so, but it is worth making profitable investments. We need to apply for new financial instruments so that we can move transport investment forward. From the point of view of regional development, people's housing and entrepreneurship, transport solutions have always been important, but they have never been as important as today's Finland, and that is why the city centre election programme takes another step forward for the next parliamentary term. — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u404	Madam President! I will comment on a few things that have been discussed here, and this climate change is one thing. When the IPCC report came, all the parties went along with it, to that silly populism — I would call it that, because we in Finland have emissions of about a per mill. What are we going to do about this poor earth with that per mil? An example can be shown, and it has begun to be shown. Now we're going to attack private cars. We have about 70 percent of the fuel used by heavy traffic, at least almost, and 30 percent remain in private cars. And transport emissions are about 20% to 25%. Well, now this 30%, which causes some emissions, is being attacked with a very heavier hand. This means that the countryside is empty and the people in the countryside are paying for it, and the tram traffic around here is running well. It's easy to leave just like that, and the climate has changed, but even that country has to live. Now, if we go to that big pig, we catch it, and there was a story in the Evening Sanomat that the trip to Thailand, when you have a family of four, causes as much climate emissions as the average car here, as you can drive 160,000 kilometers. Well, who is concerned about climate change — for example, here in Parliament, in Helsinki or in the capital region — invests in climate change and drives a car to Lapland: 1000 km there, 1000 km away, 2000 km. You can make 80 trips on one trip to Thailand, and the climate will not get any worse, and the money will stay in the country. This is also housekeeping. It's worth listening to common sense sometimes, not left-wing ideas, and there's an answer to everything. Lenin started, or what Marx it was: the answer to everything, but nowhere in the world it didn't work, still doesn't work, look at Venezuela. Then again: there has been talk of birth rates, it has been horrified when the population is getting older and there will be no children. In the summer I had the honour of going to the Lestadians ’ clubs, and there are many children there. Why don't you go check it out? You don't have to become a Lestadian. But when you watch it go, you know how to make children, there's no problem. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u405	Mr President, ärade talman! Riksdagsledamot Ala-Nissilä hade ett intressant tal rai i dag, tycker jag. Han har skrivit en bok om 'participative economic growth'.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u406	Mr President! I studied the past years and noticed that even the previous Vice-Presidents have used little less than 30 speeches during the parliamentary term, and when I have well under 20, I thought I should now improve the running and say a few words. In fact, I was quite enthusiastic about the debate that took place here during the day. In particular, I was enthusiastic about the ideas expressed here that it would have been so good that The Sipilä government would not have had to cut anything or cut anything. Oh, my God, it sounded good that I didn't have to cut anything out of anything. And that could have been the case if the previous governments of Katainen and Stubb had succeeded in economic policy. But I'm going to remind you how it turned out. These governments did cut public spending during the four years, and they tightened taxes. And a year passed when cost-competitiveness was not taken care of. What happened when the next year came up? Same thing: you had to cut your expenses and tighten your taxes. The same third year, the same fourth year, as long as no work was undertaken to improve cost competitiveness. It should have been the blue-red parties who should have realised that when cost competitiveness is lost, then the country’s goods do not sell around the world and do not do well here in the country either. It is precisely these parties that should have realised it, because they were the political forces that took Finland into the euro, and in Euroelo, the exchange rate change cannot just take care of these jobs and put the cost-competitiveness in order — no. Finland’s real competitiveness has been quite good all along, but cost competitiveness has been extremely poor. This is how it happened. Then, when Sipilä’s government started to move, if it had continued along the road that the past four years had come, it would be a rather miserable situation. Now this government is able to provide its successor with a situation where such billions of such cuts or unpleasant things do not need to be made, thanks to the fact that: Sipilä’s government dared, dared and could conclude a competitiveness agreement which specifically improved Finland’s cost competitiveness — the right concept is cost competitiveness. And when cost competitiveness is always improved when competitiveness is improved by internal devaluation — it was an internal devaluation — of course everyone's belt should be pulled a little tighter, but so should the other option, external devaluation, be done in the same way. Thank you for the efforts that have been made in this regard. The Sipilä government has done, we are now on the road to a record increase in employment and not a record but very good economic growth, and the public finances, as everyone knows and as we have seen in today's debate, are in good shape. The follower will do well to continue. It is true that every time there is rapping, there is a little splash, and there are things that have been left in the way of this government too, and it can be said that ‘there’s a bit of a splash’. In view of the big picture that we all know all the relevant indicators about, it can be said that this government, in its basic role, has succeeded well in its great task. During the next parliamentary term, this foundation can be continued to strengthen and build the integrity of the Finnish nation. Economic integrity is in order, now is the time for the nation to build up all its social integrity, and the basis for it has been laid. Mr President! Two other points that have been made here many times in the debate during today's time. The Greens report that fossil fuels receive three times as much support as renewables. What math is this based on? I think I too know a reasonable amount about taxation for a reason which, in my opinion, is not quite the case. Very briefly, this is the case. As far as energy taxation is concerned, it is true that industry is also getting a refund on the use of fossil fuels, and that is a silly thing when, at the same time, the government is trying by law to ban the use of coal. If the same industrial plant uses coal or fossil oil or peat for industrial purposes, a total of 70 million will be returned to it in Finland. Mr President! That's the last thing I want to say. There is not enough time for this climate debate, but it cannot be quite so much that we have 0.1% of global emissions. Mr Hakkarainen and others know for sure that in Finland it is about 11 million tonnes per citizen, which is what we are doing. In the European Union, it averages 8 million tonnes, and there are billions of people in the world who cause only a tenth per capita.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u407	Madam President! I would now return to my previous debate so much that a few things were not finished. From this I will continue my key ideas on Finland’s development cooperation. Unfortunately, one of the major shortcomings of this government is precisely the cuts in development cooperation. This government will remain in history as a government that cut Finnish development cooperation into the lilliput series and which underestimated the structures and factors of world-class development cooperation by thanking them with a 40% cut in their budget. These cuts have meant that NGOs have had to close whole areas of land, to abandon projects and projects that have built permanent change in developing countries and to improve the position of the most vulnerable peoples. This is, for a welfare state like Finland, a truly irresponsible activity. This is unacceptable under no circumstances, and I believe that, when history is written in due course, this issue will be mentioned in particular. At the same time, the Government has increased funding for Finnfund for financial investments in developing countries. This is clearly a priority for this government: to take this white-collar development cooperation, to increase it at the expense of development cooperation by these organisations. It is surprising in this draft budget that, although promised, spoken, let us believe that the government will not forget when the economy improves, the development organisations, the euro did not come any further. Even psychologically, it would have been wise to take 2 million or 3 million or half of Finnfund's 10 million and give it to organisations in order to have some sort of fairness in this distribution of money. Unfortunately, this did not happen. Then in the area of justice: The strong reform of justice and the reduction of courts are leading to a deterioration of legal protection in Finland, both in qualitative terms and in linguistic rights. I find this state already alarming in terms of fundamental rights. I believe that, once this has been required to be monitored very closely, we will soon receive these reports on our desk telling us that the state of Finland's legal security is rapidly deteriorating. At the same time as the number of cases to be dealt with is increasing, staff will be reduced and processing sites will also be reduced. This equation is very — it cannot even be said to be challenging — it is a situation that shoots itself in the leg. We are forced to increase these resources because everything is going to go down there. We have already had so many comments on this that it takes too long to deal with matters. Well, more about this in my speech in the main section. Madam President! It has been a great thing to find that in many cases such long-term reform work usually brings results when it is done systematically and carried forward, but the judiciary is an institution in which, in all possible economic situations, the economy should not be allowed to direct justice for every citizen, but always have to ensure adequate financial resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u408	Madam President! There was a discussion about the encounter between work and the unemployed the other day. We have serious problems with that. There may be 260,000 unemployed and tens of thousands of job vacancies. There's a big problem with the system somewhere. Why don't they meet? Of course, there are no easy solutions; that is quite clear. Jobs are often far from these unemployed, and there would be a need for migration, and there are often major problems with migration: housing issues, the situation of one of the spouses in the family, children, families and then this drastic increase in costs as a result of the structure of society. In many places at that distance, if you put your apartment on the market, there is hardly any price — good if you always get one offer. And then, if you happen to be in debt, it is quite closed, and if you can sell it at any price, then from the new place where the jobs would be, the price of buying a dwelling either by renting or, in particular, by buying it will be excessively high, there is no room for it. The amount of debt is going to be enormous. This is one big problem. But then we also have the big question of the labour force in this situation of young people. We have about 15 per cent of those who have completed comprehensive school who either do not apply for or discontinue secondary education. What am I supposed to do with them? The Social Democrats have proposed raising the compulsory school age. That's one chance. However, I do not see that it is possible for these young people, who may not have the enthusiasm to study very high, to be forced into school-based learning. It's a pretty rough model. But when they are underage, under 18 years of age, after leaving compulsory school, I would see that it is possible to think that they have an obligation. Compulsory education is a statutory obligation, and then, again, military service comes before men in adulthood, in adulthood. That, too, is a mandatory obligation. Why should it not be possible to impose a study obligation on 16 to 17-year-olds so that these young people, who are now excluded from study, are caught in this way and required to study? Its study should be work-oriented, very close to working life, and perhaps it should teach, for example, the economics of the ordinary economy, family and individual, the functioning of society, little exercise and perhaps some language, language learning would be important, and possibly mathematics, subjects of this kind that are necessary in life, and then also getting to know work, being at work. I believe that we could impose this obligation on these minors, who are practically children. I'm afraid they're pretty much lost now. Can we afford to keep 15 percent of the age group out of this system of society? It is a big issue, and I hope that the government and the future government and Parliament will take seriously the issues of these young people who have a life ahead of them and which we desperately need in this demographic development, including work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u409	Mr President! Next year's budget, if you look at it as a whole, I think the best way to describe it is to see that, when you look back on these four years, the government's economic policy line has worked, that employment is still improving, that the government's indebtedness is decreasing. This year, as we have heard here today — I think he was on the news for the first time yesterday — we will be able, for the first time in ten years, even to reduce government debt. Yet, of course, this situation is not as good as it sounds, because according to the budget, we will still have to take up 1.6 billion debts again next year, so the budget is in deficit. As a whole, it can be said that the government's economic policy line works. When this concept works, you don't want to change it. I understand that alternatives have been put forward on the part of the opposition, and this should be the case, but if we look at the tax line put forward by the Social Democrats, I think that in this situation, where we have been able to increase employment by lowering the tax rate, to make companies invest, to achieve economic growth in Finland, the worst thing would be for us to change this line now, to take the line we had during the last parliamentary term, when we practically only grew unemployment, tax rates and sovereign debt. I think that the most important thing is that we should be able to continue firmly on this path. In my opinion, the bad poison is to intimidate the business sector by raising taxes after the elections, and this creates such uncertainty that we do not dare to invest anymore. Mr President! In addition to this big line, I would like to raise two very, very small but important specific issues which I think are excellent in this regard. The first is that I would like to thank the Committee on Finance, in particular the Section on Administration and Security, for adding EUR 190000 to the article of the Ministry of Justice in the Sámi Giellagáldu (Sámi Language Capital).
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u410	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u411	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u412	Mr President! Every person has the right to a decent life, security, care and well-being. Every person is valuable and should be treated accordingly. This means actions to safeguard the conditions for a decent life: adequate livelihoods, the services needed and the opportunity to develop themselves and improve their position in society. Society must be built in such a way that every child can become anything, in such a way that every elderly person is safe in everyday life, in such a way that his own future is not lost, even when life becomes adversity, such as unemployment or illness. It is our job to build a society that carries everyone, everyone. It is on this idea that the Social Democratic Party has built its policies and options. This is also our path to the future. For Finland to succeed as a nation tomorrow, society must be able to train, work and participate in building a common future, regardless of its background and wealth. Mr President! Throughout its term, the Government has made a policy that has undermined equality and equality between Finns. With its actions and economic policy decisions, the Government has increased the differences in welfare and income.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u413	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u414	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u415	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u416	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u417	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u418	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u419	The reply, Mr Ala-Nissila, and then Mr Löfström continues with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u420	Mr President! I was worried about this liturgy, as Mrs Marin put it. Firstly, as far as tax policy is concerned, we still have scrapping taxes in place, we still have solidarity taxes in place that involve high incomes. We have significantly reduced the tax burden on low incomes. This budget proposal also includes a reduction in pension income, is a basic deduction, there is a table reduction for low incomes. When a person becomes employed — with 110,000 new jobs — his family’s situation improves by a thousand euros.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u421	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u422	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u423	Mr President! It's not a liturgy. This is the reality in which, unfortunately, many Finns live at the moment. These government cuts have been very much directed towards the same groups of people: students have been deprived of nearly a hundred of their livelihoods. The income of pensioners has been pinched in a number of ways, by increasing customer fees, on the other hand, by reducing, for example, compensation for kyyde, by making index freezes. Families with children have been cut from services and income, as well as from unemployed people. This government policy has been very hard. This is the reality in which people live. It is not the picture of Finland that you want to create here. You have raised differences between people in terms of well-being and income. This policy has not been right, and people can, very many people can, at the moment, be in a bad state in Finland today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u424	Let us take two more replies, Mr Salmon and Mr Semi, then to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u425	Mr President! Unfortunately, I too felt that Mr Marin’s speech was quite liturgy because it forgot the whole thing that has happened in Finland over the past four years. In a way, that positive development was completely forgotten, only the other side was given. It is certainly the case that we have far too many people who are not doing well enough today, but if we look at the situation from where we came from and what was in the last parliamentary term, as far as I am concerned, we cannot say in this parliamentary term that this policy has been unfair. If 100,000 more unemployed people were created in the last parliamentary term, 115,000 more jobs have now been created. However, I believe that this will increase prosperity, and even according to studies, when compared and looking at these government measures, inequality has not increased. It is clear that there are individual painful, difficult decisions, such as, for example, money cuts related to student aid, but correspondingly, for example, family students have received care-sharing increases, it has been possible to increase the guarantee pension. I think it would be fair to say the whole, which, however, is very positive in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u426	Madam President! I do not think Mr Marin was talking about liturgy. He was saying the right thing. If we consider that all benefits have been removed during this government, EUR 300 million for pensioners and other deprived people by freezing index increases, and at the same time EUR 1 billion for tax reductions, then if only EUR 700 million had been decided to make these tax reductions and give it to the poor and the poor, then these freezes would not have had to be made. Yes, it has been a matter of value choice on the right that how the poor are being squatted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u427	Then let us go to the list of speakers at this point. We can be debatable at times, but now Mr Löfström — please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u428	Irade fru talman! Det nuvarande ekonomiska systemet mellan staten och den åländska självstyrelsen basear sig på att alla ålänningar betalar skatt till staten precis på samma sätt som alla övriga finländare. Enligt de Senaste tillgängliga katteuppgifterna betalar Åland över 0.62 percent av alla Skatter som uppbärs av staten men erhåller enligt nuvarande system endast 0.45 percent tillbaka i form av en klumpsumma. Sedan nuvarande system trädde i kraft år 1995 har den åländska befolkningsmängden procentuellt vuxit dubbelt så snabbt som hela landsets. Den snabba befolkningsutvecklingen på Åland är en stark grund för att höja klumpsumun. Finlands EU-medlemskap samt bolagisering av statliga affärsverksamheter är också en grund för att se över avräkningen. Systemet har ändå inte korrigerats, och som en följd av detta är det svårt att få klumpsumun att räcka till för att tacka de offentliga utgifterna. Irade the Talman! Därför har vi på Åland redan länge arbetat för att klumpsumun skulle höjas för att motsvara dagens verklighet och så att den täcker kostnaderna för en växande befolkning. Den offentliga economist måste utvecklas i takt med den privata. Åland vill växa, skapa nya företag och vaa med och utveckla economist, men för det krävs rättvisa förutsättningar. Om Åland inte skulle ha en ög sysselsättning på över 80 percent och en arbetslöshet påmindre an 4 percent skulle Åland i dag rea i stor ekonomisk kris. Av den anledningen föreslår jag i en budgetmotion undertecknad av svenska riksdagsgruppens alla ledamöter att staten höjer avräkningen, klumpsum, till Åland från 0.45 percent till 0.48 percent, så att den motsvarar och finansierar självstyrelsen enligt den befolkning Åland har i dag, inte den Åland hade år 1995. För Åland vil fortsätta växa, och därför behövs ett ekonomiskt självstyrelsesystem som också är mer flexibelt och där den ökande befolkning som betalar Skatt till staten också betyder ökade återbetalningar till Åland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u429	Madam President! It is a very good thing that the economy is growing and exports are drawing, so that Europe and the world economy are in good shape. It is very good that employment is improving — although there are quite a few regional differences: I come from the municipality itself, where the unemployment rate is still well over 14. Today there has been some search for blame in the previous regime — when it is the Minister of Finance, sometimes it has been the Prime Minister. But I remember who was in the government and what was done in 2008 when GDP fell by over 8% and it was said that this did not affect Finland. The overall picture of the economy is still that next year's budget will be made available to increase indebtedness. EUR 1.9 billion is on the way to taking on more debt. The sustainability gap is EUR 9 billion, around 4%. At the beginning of this government, it was about 5 per cent, well over EUR 10 billion. It has gone in the right direction, but I would have liked the leaps to have been a little bigger. This weekend’s news of the fact that there is no need to raise the last tranche of loans for this year is good, of course, but when you look back and listen to the Director-General of the Ministry of Finance’s greetings, it is a one-off item with several explanatory elements, and one of them is the sale of state assets. The Sipilä government has sold state property much more than the previous governments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u430	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u431	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u432	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u433	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u434	Mr President! Finland is moving with the global economy, and there are many things that we cannot directly influence through our own decision-making. But there's still a lot we can do. If we act smartly, we will be able to build a buffer against the deterioration of the general economic situation or, in the experience of the boom season, we will be able to react quickly and make the most of growth. Information to support decision-making is available today in a completely different way than it was in some years ago. This should also be reflected better in Finland’s political decision-making. The state should be able to react more rapidly to changes in the playing fields of the economy. Finland’s debt burden has grown too high. The government must be hated that the expenditure side of the budget has been curbed to the extent that the government debt can be reduced. As far as employment is concerned, we have achieved at least two better results than in the previous parliamentary term. However, the sustainability gap is a troll that lurks in the next corner, and the government has not prepared Finland well enough to meet this. Social welfare reform and related costs are also a risk from the point of view of central government finances in the near future. Economic policy, like any other social decision-making process, is about value choices: where to take it and where to give it. For example, to cover the costs of immigration, it seems that the current government always has good chips, but for a low-income pensioner, among other things, only turns his back. As other Finns have already emphasised, we are in favour of a policy that promotes the well-being of a normal Finnish citizen. We are not in the business of big business; they can do without inefficient business subsidies. But how's the small businessman doing? How does a poor, low-income citizen who has empty accounts halfway through the moon and should still be given food and medicine? In general, prices are rising and customer charges are increasing. Better care must be taken of the welfare of older people, that is, those who have built up this welfare of ours. With the rise in prices, their livelihoods should be increased. In our alternative budget, we Finns have proposed a lot of concrete moves to make a fairer policy. Mr President! Finnish food production is important for both health and security of supply. Clean, domestic food produced here also employs. The EU spending limits decision is poison to our agriculture. Let me remind you that if agricultural production is driven down, it will not immediately come back. We Finns are asking the government for bold and straightforward lobbying of the EU's agricultural decision. You'd think this government would defend our agriculture more strictly, but now it feels like we're on a peasant's killing line. And what is planned for the next government by the media and public opinion seems to be the last straw in the peasant's coffin. With regard to education and working life, we are in a challenging situation. This millennium has seen a lot of cuts in education. It is difficult to find experts in certain sectors, which contributes to limiting economic growth. Jobs are also unevenly distributed on the map, and it seems that the government has not intervened. It would be important to have the opportunity to live, work and try all over Finland. It would be very important for everyone to have faith in the future and either study or work. Work must also always be worthwhile. Untying the incentive traps has not progressed in the desired way. The value of the work must also be enhanced. All the work is valuable. At present, too many young people suffer from depression and other mental problems. It is uncertainty about the future that is one of the factors behind these problems. The government could contribute to this by making the most humane decisions in the areas of education and employment policy. Action must be taken to respond to climate change. The climate duties proposed by the True Finns are a good practical way to protect the environment. This could also be a good economic opportunity for Finland when production is directed to less polluting countries. On the other hand, it is not reasonable at all to discipline domestic industry and private cars with questionable restrictions. And here, too, I would like to underline the fact that the European Parliament is going to Strasbourg with a tough arsenal once a month. I'm sure it'll make that carbon footprint if there's anything. Mr President! Finally, there is widespread concern about the present internal security situation. This should be reflected even more in the funding of police action, among other things. Immigration and asylum policies are also sidetracked. The government has not been able to comply with its own programmes and security risks, including the threat of terrorism, are at a worrying level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u435	Madam President! This debate on the country's budget for next year has been extremely interesting but, on the other hand, contradictory. As Vice-President Pekkarinen said in his own speech, the very core issue for the Finnish economy is cost competitiveness. If anyone does not believe this speech, then you should look at our export statistics: Finland is clearly the country most dependent on export trade from all Western European countries, the superior one in that area. We will not be able to boost our own economy by anything other than keeping our cost competitiveness in order. It is self-evident that when, in practice, more than half of the government's revenue flows come from abroad — numerically, it is still slightly below, but in practice it is more than half — then it becomes the so-called hard currency in which Finland's wheels are turned or kept spinning. After all, the mistake of the last parliamentary term was the huge number of things that were done and all of them fought against cost-competitiveness, at worst tax increases. We know exactly everyone in this Chamber, or at least we should know that the increase in taxes is the worst poison of all, what we can do for our own cost-competitiveness and for the well-being of our people. It is true that during this parliamentary term some things have gone in a more difficult direction. We still have big unemployment. This, too, has been reduced by over 100 thousand people — a huge figure. We find some details in that yellow budget book, which, for example, have been gripped by the demos with a great deal of noise as if the whole book were wrong. It's not like that. Small details are only small details that need to be fixed gradually as the state’s economic situation allows. And they're going to get them fixed, that's for sure. But it cannot be that in all things we will wait for the world to heal ourselves. Yes, it is our own task to improve the world. Take a look at Italy or Greece: Greece did not care about cost competitiveness at all. What happened? Among other things, pensions were cut there. The first surgery was almost half of the pensions out. Think of what it would mean in Finnish standards: it would be a disaster, the greatest king of all disasters if we did. Fortunately, we have those responsible decision-makers who took responsibility for this situation and put the Finnish economy in order. It's not that kind of clay that goes by without pain, I'm sure it won't. We will remember the days after Holker's government in due course. That's why Esko Ahoa has been accused that it was his fault that we were in that situation. I wonder how many bankruptcy lawyers are accused of having a bankruptcy estate? It is not the lawyer's fault that a bankruptcy estate is created, but it is the operators who caused it to go bankrupt. Climate change is another major issue in this debate. The forests have been criticised and it has been said that they should not be beaten. Among other things, comments have been heard from the demars, and it is almost impossible for me to understand them. If we are not allowed to exploit and use the national property we cherish for decades, it will lead to the hunger course of this nation, which will then be the most violent. We are currently beating it up a little over 75 million mots, 85 million mots are totally possible, and next decade we will be getting 95 million mots, and by doing the after-work well and the seedlings well these figures are not upper limits either. However, at present the annual growth of forests is almost 110 million mots. And all of this has been done after the wars. Now we should close the hatch and drop the gloves on the ground and start wondering why the forests are not growing? Well, they don't grow if they're not treated. Now, fortunately, we are wise on that road, and we have the best forest research in the world, the Natural Resources Centre. The former Finnish Forest Research Institute knows these things well, and the statistics that come from there are completely correct figures. They too have been questioned in this Chamber according to the latest investigations. I wish I could see those last scientists who claim to be so. And then the Green World record is probably that they have proposed more protection as the solution to climate change. That's where the poor fall, the forest management stops and the decay takes over. We all know that a 100-year-old spruce or a 70-year-old birch does not grow anything, just and only rots. So growth will then be negative and detrimental to climate change. It is a strange way of thinking that we should adopt a procedure to allow our forests to rot up. We've been given a huge treasure trove, why not use it? I hope these words will be of sufficient benefit to us to understand what kind of national treasure we are playing with. It is joy and joy and well-being for all of us, as long as we can see beyond its wall that you can also succeed in that northern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u436	Madam President! First of all, I would like to support the motion by Mr Sami Savio, this objection. Mr President! The index freezes are indeed painful, and they do hit the elderly people and their purses. The possibility of index cuts is justified here by the fact that the guarantee pension increases. Well, I think that equation is absolutely incomprehensible. A person has worked his whole life, a long career, very hard, has worked as a shift worker, even as a nurse or cleaner, and the pension income derived from it is so small that he does not want to manage and does not succeed, and by nearing the guarantee pension he has earned — this is the question that people in those turbulent and squares are going to ask and say that you are going to put things in order for a small pensioner. Yes, I would hope that one day we will be able to say here that we would see and improve his position as a low-income woman, who has had the lowest rate of retirement. So it's a small pensioner's thing that we have in common. We Finns have proposals in our alternative budget, such as the mid-term index for low and middle-income pensioners. This would be one answer to how we would improve the livelihood of pensioners. Madam President! The work of carers is extremely important and we have argued that the support of carers is tax-free. We see that in relation to the amount of work they do and their reward for it, even though they work with heart, it would be reasonable for it to be exempt from tax. Safety has been raised here, and the Finns of Finland see that it is extremely important to ensure that it is safe to travel and move in Finland. It is good that the Minister of Justice is bringing forward a motion to intensify the sentences of sexual offenders, particularly those responsible for sexual offences against children, but there is doubt and fear as to whether this measure is sufficient. After all, we already have the opportunity to pass judgments at the top, but that is not the way it is, so those who do these things will get away with it, and this is intolerable. Not that it hasn't been tampered with. Already since 2011, the Finns have taken action to change this penalty scale, but very slowly the train runs here, and sometimes it feels that important things are moving slowly. Then again, with the Intelligence Act, among other things, very quickly that train runs when there is something they want to take forward. It is very unfortunate that we have recently read and heard about repeated sexual offences, and it is a sad fact — it is based on facts — that those with immigrant backgrounds and very much also with negative asylum decisions are these suspects, and yes, we in society must intervene and see what we do about it. When I first came to Parliament in 2011, the thorn was that the native Finns did these things to children and more and more dared to talk about being the victim of such acts, and then I intervened and took the initiative. No one made a fuss about not being able to intervene in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u437	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u438	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u439	Madam President! I have with me the budgetary report of the Committee on Budgets. Interesting to read, especially since this content has become familiar with during its preparatory phase. Mr President! However, here are just a few comments. Before that, Mr Paatero took the floor, in which he made some kind of accusation. The Sipilä Board of Directors on the sale of state-owned companies and, in this respect, on the corporate governance policy. However, it may be good to see that, when you look at a little longer, from the beginning of the 1990s, the state has sold its company assets by 2016 for such EUR 17.5 billion, so what is the list? Who's at the top? Number one is Paavo Lipponen's second government with a balance of EUR 6.8 billion, second is Matti Vanhanen's first government with a balance of EUR 5 billion, which, when we look at this, is the total amount of euro, and third is Jyrki Katainen's and Alexander Stubb's government, where Jutta Urplainen and Antti Rinne have been finance ministers. Sirpa Paatero also has quite a share in the sales of TeliaSonera and Outokumpu, for example. The fourth part of this total list is Lipponen's first board of directors, EUR 3 billion, where Antti Kalliomäki was the Minister of Corporate Governance. In other words, when it is said in those speeches that the government has now sold, the government has actually acted during this term of government to increase the ownership of our state-owned companies by EUR 5 billion, and the stakes, which, in turn, are needed to make the balance sheet more profitable, to direct us to the business world and to create jobs. This is the kind of big wheel that has practically worked this way. It is reflected in the results of our economy today. Employment has improved, our gross domestic product has grown, exports are pulling, we are able to reduce the amount of government debt. These are all figures for which one can only be happy. I would be happy, no matter what kind of government there is in this country, because at least I don't understand the fact that I'm always barking at who's the CEO of the company or pulling Finland. In fact, these must not have political boundaries. Politics is a thing of its own, but financial facts speak for themselves. But that is all, Mr President. This is probably also a topic of discussion that does not quite end, but, despite everything, these are facts when it comes to selling state companies. Mr President! Indeed, much is included in this report, and the budget, 55 billion, is always a big question. The Section for Local Government and Health and the Section for Transport, when you look at that Parliament's allocation reserve, EUR 60 million in total, was just over half. However, I am glad that we are able to invest in a few excellent sites, including food aid of EUR 1.2 million through the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which means that the status of food aid is recognised and can then be applied for by various organisations and bodies involved in that work. It has not been specifically targeted at one organisation or some specific bodies. Support for veterans: With that other ear a little longer listening — it’s exciting that a few ten cents of Parliament is now discussing the issue of the pension index of front veterans. Its significance in the life of veterans is virtually nothing at all, but it matters that we are now directing money home very strongly in the next year, and, of course, this issue of reducing the disadvantage also has its own significance on the part of the war ombudsmen. These are big things, and it is worth being proud and happy together. We had VTR funding at the Department of Local Government and Health. I would like to say this now in the context of this general debate, as far as the regional reform and the social and health reform are concerned, it is also extremely important to consider that, when the initial allocation was no less than EUR 90 million, i.e. the special state contribution, the financing of Evo, it is now at the level of EUR 20 million. Fortunately, Minister of Social Affairs and Health Saarikko laid down the previous parliamentary additions and now we are increasing that appropriation by 2.8 million. But, overall, I am also concerned about university research and what is currently being done, for example, in the context of university hospitals. We've got to make it safe.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u440	Mr President! In the Committee on Finance, we heard a large number of economic experts during the autumn. One of the most interesting was Dr. Pentti Pikkarainen. He went through the Finnish economy and the EU economy and the economic situation in many euro countries very carefully and even a little global. In many respects, his message was very worrying about the prospects we have ahead of us. I'm looking at a few things he went through. He first pointed out that Italy has come into a very difficult situation, from which there is probably no beautiful way out. The introduction of Italy into the euro was a purely political decision. Italy did not meet the convergence criteria and was otherwise not ready to join the euro. At the time of accession, Italy promised that it would bring its public debt from 120 % of GDP to 60 % by 2009. This has not happened. The debt is now over 130 per cent. Italy’s public debt is on an unsustainable path if public expenditure is increased, growth is slow or the cost of public funding is rising by at least a few percentage points. The identification of such a situation can lead to drastic reactions in the financial markets and, among other things, to speculation about the break-up of the euro area. There are likely harsh solutions ahead. Either Italy falls into debt restructuring, the breakup of the euro, splits into two, north and south, is experiencing severe inflation, or the intra-euro-area transfers will save Italy. Are we prepared, by means of transfers, to pay for the problems of a country and banks the size of Italy? I'm sure we can't do that. Mr President! Dr Pikkarainen also looked at Germany and said that Germany is a problem, a distraction in the euro area. Its current account surplus is 8%, although the Netherlands has an even higher balance of payments, i.e. 10%, but the Netherlands is a small country. Regarding the situation of the European Central Bank, Dr Pikkarainen said that during the crisis that began in 2008, the central role of the ECB has in practice been to hold the euro area together. The ECB will have to publicly justify its actions through the achievement of the objective of price stability, but it has actually been a matter of safeguarding the continuity of the euro area and the euro. The ECB's monetary policy margin has been, and will remain, very narrow for a very long time. The ECB is cornered. It's hit. The ECB is a classic example of the situation of fiscal domination. When public finances are in turmoil, unemployment is high and the financial system is in poor oxygen, the room for manoeuvre of the Central Bank is very limited. This was the very situation that many feared before moving to EMU. The need for the ECB and the potential for a significant tightening of monetary policy are limited. Unemployment is high, public debt is high, many businesses and households are very indebtedness, the development of the euro area towards an optimal currency area and its arrangements are hardly progressing. A possible tightening of monetary policy is likely to be easiest to do by raising some short-term interest rates or key interest rates. One way or another, the ECB should have to protect the functioning and prices of the bond market. There are problems with a long-standing, very light monetary policy. Policy incentives for good economic policy will be reduced when the market mechanism does not work. The ECB has given governments time to act, but the possibility has not been fully exploited, at least. There are bubbles in the wealth goods market, which occasionally burst. This creates the need to introduce different macro-prudential tools, but their use is not always easy. They allow companies to invest in low-productive investments. The risks in Italy are very high. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u441	Congressman Salonen is gone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u442	Nothing, Mr President. All I had to do was scream, "No!" — Perhaps it is a word that in some way also describes my speech. Finland’s economy has been at a peak this year, and that is a good thing. Every decision maker knows the importance of the euro area and the global economy for the Finnish economy. Finland's economy is not in its own bubble, and fortunately we have finally caught up with the recovery of the economy in the world. However, in everyday life, the average wage and salary earners have not recovered from the economic peaks, on the contrary. Education, basic services and the funding of municipalities have been cut, that is, the services most visible in the everyday lives of ordinary people. At the same time, the tax reductions implemented by the government have been directed towards the greatest benefit to international investors, not ordinary Finns. The measures taken to reform the tax base that finances our welfare society have been very thin during this government term. We need extensive tax reforms now. It is clear that long-term stable economic growth cannot be based on rapid economic policy gains and short-sighted solutions. In Finland, the fight against inequality has been hidden behind success in the past, and that is where it is now. Adequate skills and the level of education are important. Unfortunately, we cannot thank the government for this now. The fact that Finland is currently in a state where almost 15 per cent of the age group is left without upper secondary education is a major indicator of the state of education policy. If the level of education of future generations is going to be lower than in the past, we will be in real trouble. Over the last 30 years, more than 600,000 jobs have been lost on the labour market, for which primary education has been sufficient. The inequality in education policy threatens to destroy the future of up to 100,000 people under 30 years of age, as so many young people have been left without a post-school degree. The position of these young people in the labour market is not favourable. In the case of young men in particular, this problem is alarmingly highlighted. We need great actions and visions for the future. This would include, for example, the implementation of genuinely free secondary education and the extension of compulsory education to the second set of regulations. In addition, cuts in vocational education and research at university level have been shortsighted. Even in a difficult economic situation, investments in the future are investments in increasing the skills of citizens. Mr President! Unemployment seems to have gone down. It's important. At the same time, the number of long-term and structural unemployed remains significant. Government measures to combat long-term unemployment have mainly been punitive. The cuts in unemployment security and the active model have been unfair and unfair. This has been said both by THL and by the European Committee on Social Rights. In the survey, the level of Finnish unemployment benefit is estimated to be insufficient. The personal services of the TE Offices must be urgently developed. In addition, the employment trials of municipalities must be continued. Finland needs everyone to invest in a common future, and we cannot afford to lose any people because we fail to keep them in society. Therefore, the fight against inequality should always be at the forefront of economic policy, not increasing it. Mr President! Reijo Vuorento, Deputy Director of Local Government Finances of the Association of Finnish Local Government, estimated a few days ago that the social welfare reform could increase the costs of the state by up to EUR 1 billion a year. In 10 years, the additional cost would be EUR 10 billion. Several experts have warned against the fragmentation of treatment paths. When services are broken down, for example, the activities of regionally important social and health care bodies can be lost. This has a detrimental effect on the well-being of the inhabitants of the region. We need to reform the war, but that must certainly not mean that everything that is good and workable must be scrapped. During this parliamentary term, the funding of municipalities has been cut for basic services and services for the elderly. These cuts directly affect the loss of knowledge and expertise and thus the quality of service. Access to care could be genuinely improved by increasing resources and pairs of hands where they are most needed. A thousand doctors and nurses should therefore be added to primary health care to improve reception facilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u443	Mr President! Finland is now doing better than it was in the past, and we are back on the growth curve of the global economy. However, after the collapse of 2008, it took far too long for us to get back on track. The government has now taken the right measures, dismantled regulation, facilitated employment, improved competitiveness through various measures, reduced income tax and so on. These are all actions that we are now involved in economic growth through synergy. You can say that the government has done a lot. It's not just the government, though. We can also thank the Competitiveness Pact and the players who contributed to its creation. A great deal of credit is also due to Finnish employees, Finnish companies, unemployed people and also pensioners, all of whom have had to play their part, and many have to stretch quite a bit. One of them has come out of the swamp. There are already forecasts of a slowdown in economic growth. Positive economic development will continue if we continue on this path to government reforms, deregulation and measures to improve competitiveness. We'll have to increase the local settlements. The employment rate must be above 75% and even higher. We must get people to work and change the social security system so that work is always more profitable than idleness. Social security must be free of charge. If we do not continue on this path of reform, it will be a rather cold ride for the next recession and recession to come. That is why we need to continue to maintain strict economic management and structural reform. That's what we owe our children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u444	Mr President! I thought about just a few comments and a correction when I was in my office and listened to this conversation. The Greens' speech stated, in fact, that it was my speech, where I said it, that subsidies for fossil energy are threefold higher than subsidies for renewable energy. When this was suspected, I would now like to rectify this, which is precisely what it is. The tax subsidies for fossil energy, which include a lower tax rate on diesel fuel, excluding the power tax on passenger cars, the lower tax rate on light fuel oil used in working machinery and the lower tax rate on peat, constitute aid to fossil energy in the form of tax subsidies of EUR 1 billion 50 million, while the subsidies for renewable energy, which include TEM energy support, the renewable energy feed-in tariff, the transport use of electronic transport and biogas, the promotion of infrastructure and the premium support for renewable energy, amount to EUR 350 million. In other words, it is true that three times as much support will be given to these fossil energies. And then the second thing that came up here was the air tax, which was raised by the representative of the Salmon. He addressed his question to the left, but since the Greens are also in favour of the air tax and I also raised it in my own speech, I would like to say that Finland would not be the first country, nor the only country, if we introduced the air tax, as the majority of Finns would like to see the air ticket paid on a climate-based basis. The air tax is a common name for the fees and charges that a passenger has to pay on top of his airline ticket, and this is currently in use in more than 30 countries. Sweden is certainly the most familiar, and it is precisely this climate-based, but there are a number of other countries, such as Australia, Austria, Jamaica, Mexico, Cuba, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Great Britain, where such a flight tax is in place. But, of course, it would be important for this air tax to be developed on a climate-based basis. Representative Salmon was also concerned about what would happen to tourism in Lapland if the air tax was introduced. I am concerned about what will happen to tourism in Lapland, what will happen to the winters in Lapland if we do not take climate change seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u445	Mr President! I will continue with that speech by Mr Mikkonen and tell Mr Hoskonen, who, here in the toilet, criticises the policy of the Greens, that we Greens are concerned about the fellings implemented by the government and the plans to grow them because, on the contrary, Finland should increase the sink and not reduce it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u446	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u447	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u448	Congressman Niikko, gone. Congressman Laukkanen. — Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, the President's table had moved on a few points. I did not mean to speed up the debate in this way, but it was accidentally turned around here. — The list, and there Mr Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u449	Mr President! Here, mental health has been raised in discussions. True Finns are also very concerned that very many young people today are ill and even a quarter of them have been diagnosed with mental health problems, and despite the fact that investments in youth work are being made, we have not succeeded in getting things better. The support network is missing, and especially if you can't find it in your own home, where would you find it? We, the True Finns, hope and demand it, as I am sure everyone here, will stop bullying both in schools and in workplaces as well as everywhere. Among other things, we have asked school peace ombudsmen to solve bullying problems in schools and, at the same time, preventive measures to prevent the exclusion of young people, including a hobby guarantee to secure at least one hobby for each child and young person. In Espoo, where I am a municipal councillor, the Finns of Finland have suggested, among other things, the inclusion of psychiatric nurses in schools and day care centres as a support person at the time, if the health resources there are not sufficient — that is, if there are not enough school doctors or nurses, school curators, psychologists, someone to talk to, the person to whom to talk. One person can save a young world and life, and it would be very important for us to hear them. I have already spoken about safety here in the previous speech, and I would like to continue to draw attention to the fact that next year will be the second year when the government will allocate resources to the services of illegally staying health care. Of course, we understand that when you're sick and you need an antibiotic treatment, it's all right that you get it. In this way we will also avoid the spread of diseases and epidemics, and it is humanly correct, I do sign it and I understand it, but I do not understand why these people who receive services do not necessarily have to give their name and, for example, do not have to register it. Last year, we in the Finns Party made a statement, among other things, that these people who receive services from society — housing, medication, food — illegal residents, people we know nothing about would be registered so that we know who they are, and that statement did receive support in this Chamber. The Greens, among other things, came in favour of it, and it was really great to see that the idea and the idea in it was understood that it really knows who goes where, who goes where, who seeks which services, whether you go for a living, and that we know what is happening in Finland is also a preventive approach to crime, trafficking in human beings, everything that may happen on the streets when we do not know and we do not see. In other words, we need to take specific measures and take preventive action, and that is what we have proposed. There has been talk of housing, which is very important, and I always wonder when we talk about affordable housing, what it is actually about affordable housing, what it is about rent, how much it is about housing costs, how much it can be said that it is affordable now, and what would be affordable living. Our goal is that in the future housing costs do not exceed a third of household income. We also have a housing programme that includes a number of measures to curb housing costs and improve the quality of living. Young people who are studying arrive in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area: It is very important for the government to ensure that there is enough housing and housing for them, as well as for elderly people to have access to unhindered housing. Repairing elevators in old houses and the resources allocated to them are very important and welcome. This is exactly how people get older and homes get older, and then you need that resource for them. This is where the coeliac allowance was removed the other day. That is something that often comes up against. People ask what the government is going to do to return the dietary allowance to people with celiac disease. This is an important issue, and I would like to see the government think about it at some point and perhaps restore it, because food costs are high and excessive for people with celiac disease. Finally, on the old ombudsman: As far back as last season, we Finns, as well as the people who signed it themselves, have taken steps to get an old-age ombudsman, an old-age ombudsman, whatever name we would call him, to follow, watch, watch. We have an old-age law, and that is not enough as a law. It is important that its implementation is also monitored, and an ombudsman for the elderly would be one possible person. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u450	Mr President! The state of child welfare is still a matter of concern in Finland, and inequality in families with children has increased especially in recent benefit cuts and the weakening of early childhood education. The number of child welfare notifications has been increasing in municipalities and at the same time there have not been enough social workers. Therefore, in its own alternative budget, the SDP has also provided additional resources for child protection. At the same time, it should be noted that care for the elderly is also one of the most important issues of the 2020s. I predict that next season Parliament will be discussing the care of the elderly to a record extent. Municipalities have been subjected to excessive austerity pressures and, while the proportion of older people in the population is increasing, older people's services are fighting for issues as essential as the adequacy of their personnel. The level of competence of those working in the care of the elderly must be ensured, and therefore there is no acceptable policy to reduce the regulatory burden on the provision of services for the elderly. If the requirements for the competence of medical personnel are calculated, it is clear that the quality of care and customer safety will also be reduced. The ceiling on customer fees must be harmonised and moderated so that no low-income or high-income person has to compromise his or her own health care. Reception fees should also be abolished at the clinic’s doctor’s and nurse’s reception. According to studies, the choice between medicines and food is unfortunately the everyday life of far too many Finns over 75 years of age, since in this age group care poverty is 26 per cent. It should also be noted that in 2016, almost 400000 social welfare and health care customer fees ended up in enforcement. Too high customer fees are a major factor in inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u451	Mr President! A few more comments at the end of the debate: I think it was Congressman Salonen who suspected a thousand more doctors just like that and put the world in order. When you look at some of those economic figures, you wonder if there is any basis for the demarcation budget option. If you take a thousand doctors and their average monthly salary with all their expenses is probably close to EUR 10,000 and 12 months is a year, it will amount to about EUR 120 million more expenses, up to ten years to 1.2 billion. What, then, is the end result if the same budget does not indicate where this money will be taken from? It can no longer be taken from Sitra's balance sheet or from the vaults of the Bank of Finland. They've been robbed so many times, I think there's only dust left, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u452	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u453	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u454	Mr President! Earlier, Mr Salmon was concerned about the position of the Left Alliance with regard to air tax, but I would like to say to Mr Salmon that there is no need to be concerned. Many Finns agree with and support the Left Alliance on air tax. Rather, you might ask why air transport should be undertaxed, as it is now. However, if you compare flying with driving, for example, in many places driving is mandatory in Finland, but it is very rare to fly. Of course, the best thing would be to impose a tax or a fee on air transport globally, but in the meantime, Finland would do well to prepare its own model. A smart flight charge would be based on emissions, not just on kilometres, as an economic incentive would then be to develop more energy-efficient aircraft, more environmentally friendly fuels, and also fly at a more climate-friendly altitude. Mr Mikkonen has already said very well that the air tax is not a freak, it is already in use in several countries. And yes, I too would be more concerned about the climate and the white hangs in Lapland, so that they will still be a joy for tourists and us Finns in the future. I would like to say to Mr Hoskonen about the idea of a thousand doctors, which the Social Democrats, among others, have spoken about, and I am very much in favour of it: it costs money, but what is the cost of the social reform? At the moment, no one knows what it will cost Finns, what customers will have to pay for a doctor visit in the future. It is certainly cheaper to treat these people in basic health care in a timely manner, and it is also human for people. People need to get out of the queues, and that's what it costs, and that's what we need to be willing to pay for. Perhaps this is the question of whether we want to manage this resource increase through the private sector or through the public sector. I personally believe that by improving the resources of basic health care, we would have a very good and cost-effective opportunity to get healthcare in order in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u455	Mr President! What a visionless and sad prospect and a policy if Mr Hoskonen says here that what it costs if we are treated with the sick. Untreatment is expensive. It is expensive to come to treatment too late. That is the cost of this society, not the care of people in time. Congressman Hoskonen calculated that ten doctors in ten years would be 1.2 billion. I also stated in my speech that the Deputy Director of Local Government Administration has calculated that your social welfare reform would cost EUR 10 billion in ten years,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u456	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u457	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u458	Ladies and gentlemen, there are a few representatives who are holding this debate. From now on, I am not going to give answers for a while, because the actual speech comes from there, and unlike that, I am not going to give a reply to Mr Hoskonen, who did not hear this message until he asked for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u459	In short, Mr President, we really must reform. It's not enough what's been playing in social and health care for 40 years. The world has changed, and, for example, in health care, digital technology, smart technology, all this comes. There's nothing we can do about it. If we now throw this example of a thousand doctors: Really EUR 10,000 per month per doctor are the cost: social security, wages, and other compensation — it takes close to EUR 10,000 per doctor per month. And when you count a thousand doctors, it's pretty close to $120 million a year. That will not solve this problem. We are forced to reform health care. It is already so divided in two that we have those who do not get treatment and those to whom everything is guaranteed. Yes, this nation must be brought into treatment so that everyone can get there when needed. Here, as with many other things, if we imagine that there is an Eldorado, where one can go back to hiding, leave the reforms undone and then assume that the manna of heaven rains on the neck, then you should visit Greece to see what came out of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u460	Mr President! At least in Finland the level of care and care for the elderly is not as high as Mr Hoskonen may have suggested in his speech. For example, the situation of home care in many places is catastrophic, and there are people at home who no longer have a proper place to live. It is inhuman that even now there are many people in Finland who are memory sick, living alone who do not remember to eat or drink or who do not know what is being done in the bathroom or how to use the phone. And yet they are there at home, alone. I agree with Mr Salonen that next season there will be a lot of talk in this Chamber about the care and services of the elderly, because we are in such an artistic point that we cannot continue in this way. The idealization of home care has gone far too far in our society. We are saying mantra, that the best place for all elderly people is their own home, and that is no longer true at a time when, for example, memory sickness has progressed to a certain stage. We need more community homes where people with memory disorders receive treatment and care 24 hours a day. But we do not need the traditional facilities where there are four to six elderly people in the same room. We need domestic care and care. And then, as Mr Hoskonen has already left, I would have sent him greetings that he should now read my answer to Savon Sanomat in his writing, where he thought he knew what the SDP had said about logging. Mr Hoskonen has somehow misunderstood what we have said. We've been saying you can pick up forest fellings.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u461	Mr President! Yes, we do not want institutional care to be inhumane and there would be many people in the same room for treatment, but we do want those facilities anyway. So there has to be a place when a person is in bad shape, and if it's not the ward at the health center, then there has to be a substitute for that ward. We will then say whatever name it is, but we must find a place to bed, and the cuts that have been made over the years and years — and we have been reducing the number of care places — are unreasonable. Yes, I see that we cannot leave the debate on care for the elderly for the future or the next period, but that is the time. It was already last season when we were doing the old-age law. So that's when we've been talking and we're still talking, and I really could use some of that action. When someone mentioned in this debate that there is only a war worse than unemployment, then I would think that war is a terrible thing, that is not what I think it is, but worse than unemployment can only be a disease. When a person gets so sick that he does not receive treatment, he does not get help, he gets sick, so when he is out of power and a person is sick, the situation is bad. From that point of view, I would see that health care there must respond at the basic level when a person is ill, that he is immediately admitted to treatment, and the Finns of Peru have suggested that, for example, in the case of elderly people, there should be no guarantee of care at all, but as soon as a person is ill, an elderly person is immediately confronted with an acute treatment. In other words, a quick reception and quick targeted measures, because even a couple of days of bed rest for an elderly person causes him to be in worse shape than before. I am very concerned about the adequacy of research money, and I would like to thank and highlight Finnish research and how skillfully we are in carrying out cancer research, for example, and more and more malignant and ill-predicted cancers can be cured. I hope we understand that, we see it and we target resources there. It is no longer hopeless when you get sick or get a bad diagnosis, but you can recover from it too, and we see the importance of supporting and encouraging researchers, giving them every possible platform to work, study, practice, study in Finland, and we should appreciate it. I would also like to make up for the somewhat poor translation of words that I mentioned in that box of speakers, namely that I support the motion of censure by Mr Savio, not an objection. I said it wrong, but it was a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u462	Mr President! I thought that I would no longer be taking part in this debate, but I could not help but listen to Mrs Hoskonen's speech, in which she referred to the contribution of the Social Democrats to basic health care. We all support and support the reform of social and health care, and above all our aim has been for people to get treatment faster and more timely and receive the care they need. After all, the government has now taken freedom of choice as one of its tools and answers, and it is precisely through freedom of choice that more resources have been sought from private service providers. We Social Democrats see it a little differently. We have wanted to intervene immediately, and we want to focus on the doctor-career couple and the first-aid treatment, so that people can get to the doctor's or nurse's office more quickly and flexibly, and then, with a more stringent treatment guarantee, people will receive the necessary care they need. Now, during this reign, the government has undermined social security for the most vulnerable people and thus has made access to health services more difficult. This has caused, among other things, that when index cuts and social and health care payments have been increased, people find it increasingly difficult to get to a doctor for economic reasons as well as for other reasons, and when they do not seek help, in practice, situations may have become more difficult. These courses of treatment may have been long and difficult, and this has of course led to human difficulty, but this has also had an economic impact on people who have had financial difficulties getting treatment, and these treatments are becoming more expensive because they cannot make it on time, and so they are more expensive and more demanding. This has also been well documented by the fact that we currently have about 400,000 social and health care charges for enforcement. It partly tells us about this, but it also tells us that people are in an unequal position as to who has access to health care and who does not, and most often in practice it means that a low-income, sick person gets more difficult to provide the services he needs than, for example, a well-paid, working person. That is what we Social Democrats want to address, and one answer is to invest in the first line of basic health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u463	Mr President! The situation of low-income pensioners has been raised here on this very subject today, and I must say that the government has not done much for them. It has not really been done in this reign, and it has not been very much done in the previous one either. If you think of the fact that the plight of pensioners has begun, then the folded index came in 1996, and since then, gradually, pensions have been left behind compared to other incomes, incomes, constantly. Indeed, today’s small pensioner is having difficulty paying for daily routines: food, medicines, compulsory expenses. That is quite impossible at the moment, and that is why they would need a lot of measures to get them out of this plight. True Finns have suggested, among other things, the tax-free nature of informal care and the elimination of the exclusivity of medicines from low-income pensioners, and so should the index and pensions, because it would increase the purchasing power there and all that money would still be circulating in Finland. Then a few words about climate change, which is really important, and I wonder if we do not devote more attention to it. We are in the EU, at least for the time being. Once a month we leave Brussels with a large arsenal — trucks, aircraft, private cars, trains — in Strasbourg. How much is it? What's the carbon footprint? How much does it pollute? Is that necessary, and why should we leave? The answer is probably that France wants to, but would it not be a climate action for those meetings to continue in Brussels for the time being? Very little has been said about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u464	Mr President! I will continue with this poverty-enhancing policy of the Sipilä government. Compared with the last parliamentary term, the government’s aim was to reduce poverty and inequality and health inequalities. When you look again at the Government Programme of Sipilä’s Government, poverty is mentioned once, and that too in the context of foreign policy. The Sipilä Government has not set itself the goal of reducing poverty and has not received it either. On the contrary, it has gone in the wrong direction. This has been well mentioned in previous speeches on the role of older people, pensioners. One point that deserves to be raised here is that the cuts in the reimbursement of medicines, as well as the cuts in travel expenses, the increases in customer fees, have all weakened the position of pensioners, the elderly, those with a lot of suffering. And why are all these cuts, cuts in the National Pensions Index, and these above - mentioned ones targeting the same groups of people? It is precisely because the government does not carry out impact assessments. If an impact assessment were to be carried out, it would then be found that poor pensioners have already been cut off from those who suffer. But here is this kind of attitude problem clearly the government had that did not really care, and it is illustrated by the fact that poverty is lacking in the government programme. It has certainly not been seen as a high priority in the government to reduce poverty, and then it will not succeed. The second point I would like to make here is that regional inequalities have certainly grown in Finland. As I have already pointed out, poverty in cities has been increased by the fact that housing aid has been weakened, while in sparsely populated areas the position of people has indeed become more difficult because of the cuts in medical and travel allowances, and it is precisely those poor people, low incomes, who live far outside growth centres and urban centres, who are suffering from a great deal of suffering. We Greens have proposed in our alternative budget that charges for services, travel and medicines should be combined into a single cap. This would help the most low-income ones because the ceiling would be met more quickly in the early part of the year, and then these various services, which are often used by people with disabilities, would be free of charge. We members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health have been waiting like [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u465	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u466	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u467	Mr President! There was a talk just now about the problems of the elderly, and I stayed to consider the contacts that I have had with much of this. Given that the government has reduced the central government shares of municipalities and then increased tax revenues, income has decreased and municipalities have also started to seek savings from care services for the elderly and especially from home care. At the moment, when you look at the situation, the nurses are in such a tight pace that they can't get much for the elderly to give that care, only share the drugs and the short principle of doing the tasks there on the ground. When these elderly people have treatment plans, how should they work there, they do not match those treatment plans in the beginning. It would therefore be very important for the government to have made investments in this care work for the elderly and in some way limited home service. Not all of them in a weaker condition can be put in charge of the home service because they need institutional care. And there the institutions will then need enough nurses to care for and care for the well - being of the elderly and that they will still have a good and happy old age.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u468	Mr President, ärade talman! Congressman Hoskonen may be representing this kind of gate theory. His savings in health care expenditure are based on trying to make access to healthcare difficult and complicated. I am more in favour of the idea put forward by the Social Democrats that we should get to a nurse or a doctor as soon as possible in order to prevent it becoming even more sick or chronically or something else. We have a policy similar to that of health care in immigration policy, trying to scare people away and thinking that it will somehow solve the problems. Mental health, however, may have been the most overshadowed by social welfare reform. We now need a national long-term programme which specifically makes and makes immediate contributions to this early intervention, and a sufficient number of psychiatric nurses also to the health centre, the first contact. Of course, there is also a need to ensure that there are sufficient experts there to support the development of young people, so that the problems do not get worse. After all, mental health problems are such that surely everyone at some point in his life needs some kind of support. In that sense, perhaps this strong division between mental health problems and non- mental health problems is very steep. However, because of the mental health problem, we have gradually reduced the number of pensioners, but unfortunately the problem has increased among young people. In my opinion, this is a very serious matter for the entire nation as well. This requires stronger measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u469	Mr President! I still want to bring vision and thought to the future service needs of older people and to life in general, because it is not just about services, but about the right of everyone to good ageing and good old age. As a result, during the last parliamentary term, the Social Democrats were responsible for preparing the Act on Elderly Services for Parliament, and here in Parliament it was also adopted, and the aim was precisely to see the needs and needs of older people in a somewhat broader and longer-term perspective. One of the themes was inclusion and community and ability to function, and it would then bring an older person's whole life to be seen better for all of us, so that we could then also develop services and the environment in line with the possibility for older people to live at home for longer. But as has been said here today, this living at home has become such an idea that every age person and the old man wants to live at home. Of course, first and foremost, but we have now become more aware of the fact that we have a large number of people who do not want to live at home and who are unable to live at home where the place is no longer there. Our great challenge is that we need to build community communities and community homes, group homes, a zoning environment that allows people to move and thus participate and bring daily wellbeing to themselves. We must also develop family care alongside this. Unfortunately, the trend is now that informal care is being developed, but the legal status of family carers is still in an illegal state at the moment. If they enter into a family care agreement, they are in practice tied up at home to care for their loved ones, but the municipality has no legal responsibility to support the family carer and family in these situations, which is why the primary objective of family carers is to strengthen the legal status of family carers so that they can contribute to supporting the elderly living at home. In other words, I would like us to reinstate the old-age services law and the questions of the elderly in the same way for the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u470	Mr President! Two thanks to the government. After all, during the last term of the government, admission tests were abolished for students seeking vocational training, which turned out to be a very bad decision, and it is a very good thing that Minister of Education Sanni Grahn-Laasonen has decided to give regulations to return admission tests to vocational students. In other words, the local care and security sector is one of the areas where the entrance exams come back. This is very important, because it is precisely in this way that we will be able to improve patient safety there too, and we will have agents and experts who really want to do so and who are suitable for it. Instead, we still have something to develop in the SORA legislation — I would like the Minister to pay attention to it and to do a lot more about it — which will then allow the right to study to be suspended if the student is found to have abuse of drugs, drugs or drugs, for example. It should then be possible to tackle these situations briskly, so that no stability there will then take place either in training or so away. But this is something to be thankful for. According to the reports in the press, at least in January, this Minister’s decree may be coming into force. The second thing I want to mention is hospice. After all, we received additional resources for this year, and it would be nice to hear how hospice care has been developed here in Finland when the million was given there. After all, the Finns have made a bill that we need a law on hospice care. So we have tabled a law on hospice care, and that is an initiative, and I would hope that Parliament and the government, both this and the future, will have their ears open and humane and understanding that if we do not get health care in order and services in good order and even when there is no hospice, there will be no place for care, then legislation will have to make it possible. And I think it is very important that we hear people's voices and get the hospice care issue in Finland as well. We had a citizens' initiative on euthanasia, and that is why we all talked here about improving hospice care and providing resources, and I hope that this will also happen. On this important point, I would like to end my speech tonight and thank you all for a good debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u471	Mr President! Working doesn't always lift people out of poverty. It is regrettable that in Finland the number of people who live in poverty despite working is increasing. This applies in particular to people who are in atypical employment relationships, self-employed persons, temporary workers, temporary workers and other people who work irregularly. We should also talk more about the fact that pensioner poverty in Finland will increase because more and more people support themselves in an atypical employment relationship, as different forms of temporary and part-time work become more common and there will not necessarily be any social security at all in the work done through the initial economy. That is why I find it extremely regrettable and regrettable that, although the government promised to bring to Parliament a draft law on a combination of security, which would have improved the status of these interlocutors, this bill apparently now fell over this last year and is not moving forward. This is something I find very regrettable. Another group of people working on this kind, who are easily left in poverty, is single-parent families, that is, those families that have only one family to support. These families have a very high risk of poverty. I myself have been saddened, among other things, by the government’s cuts toward families with children. For example, the fact that children, especially children of unemployed families, were deprived of the right to permanent care, permanent day care groups and permanent friends was considered to be a rather immoral policy for the government. All children should have the right to early childhood education, regardless of the position of parents in the labour market, and, in fact, the children of low-income families benefit most of all from early childhood education. So here the government has made a very bad decision. I was delighted that Mr Biaudet raised these mental health services, and when we are talking about these children of kindergarten age, I would very much welcome it if we had early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u472	Mr President! I may not yet be so pessimistic as to make the final decision that all forms of poverty will increase. My guess is that one of the most important issues in the next government is the definition of this level of basic security, which is the level of survival and in which areas around Finland. The basic income experiment has brought a lot of good insight into this and reveals its shortcomings where answers need to be found. The overall reform of social security will certainly be a central electoral theme, under which conditions it will be taken forward. But I might not be scaring everyone who retires that their lives will sink into deep poverty. There is still room for action in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u473	We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of the draft budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u474	Presentation of Section 21 on Parliament
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u475	Mr President! In this section, I would like to pay particular attention to the Committee on Finance's very good attention to the monitoring and promotion of the rights of older people. There has now been a great deal of talk about the elderly during this evening, and there has also been mention of this Commissioner for the Elderly, of which we therefore had a citizens' initiative. It did not quite reach the finish line, and I wondered a little about why these people were not found enough to get it here in Parliament for discussion. But here the Committee on Finance has done a good job and added EUR 250,000 to the Ombudsman's office's operating expenses in order to make this check more effective, that how this care for the elderly in Finland will work in practice. At least there are a lot of shortcomings in the provision of home care, and I therefore welcome this increase with joy and I will look forward to the kind of action that this will then lead to as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u476	Mr President! It is indeed a good thing that resources are allocated to monitoring and promoting the exercise of the rights of older people. The fact that this issue is being observed reflects precisely the fact that the Ombudsman has noticed, noted and seen very often the shortcomings in the care of the elderly. There have been a lot of notifications, complaints, and very often there have also been inspections. It is good that the decision-makers here in Parliament have also seen and heard this and read these reports by the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice, which then go through different cases and everything that has been seen. And I also think that this is a little prelude to the fact that we do not know what will happen in the future. I am very sceptical about the future social reform and the proportion of the elderly in it and what it is like to be treated, whether there are enough carers and what kind of services they are and how quickly they respond to the needs of the elderly. If there are not enough nurses, then the person will not be taken care of there in the nursing home, and then there is reason to leave the office of the Ombudsman for transport, to see what is going on there. Of course, this seems a little incomprehensible. So there should also be an investment in nurses so that we can make sure that the treatment is good. True, the Finns of Peru have this suggestion that a nurse’s appointment to the law, and that’s not what the old people’s law is about. So we're ready to open up the old-age law and bring in that show. When the cat is gone, the mice jump on the table, and that's what we need to remember. Yes, I hope that the debate on the elderly and the elderly will also be more vigorously incorporated into this society, because at the moment it is completely forgotten. Who knows how the elderly will choose those services in the future? I would like to welcome this amount of money and I am glad that it has been given there that care for the elderly will be monitored.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u477	Presentation of Section 23 on the Prime Minister’s Office
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u478	Mr President! I will now address this one issue, or in fact I will mention this Healthy Facilities project, to which the Committee on Finance has decided to add EUR 160000 for implementation. This is an absolutely important issue. Indoor air disease is increasing exponentially. At the moment, perhaps the biggest problem there is that these indoor air diseases have not been added to the disease classification. The appropriate treatment guidelines, which means that these people who fall ill will not receive reimbursement for medicines. It is regrettable that, even in this four-year period, this issue did not take on such a mood that it would have become a clear proposal here. A lot of discussions were held with ministerial experts, and it turned out that the medical profession is unable to decide whether or not a person is sick and why he is sick. If a person has worked in a condition and is ill because of the changed situation, the doctor cannot decide whether he has fallen ill because of that condition or because of something else. I was watching a TV show about this, and I have to say that if our medical profession is so lost on this issue, then the political bodies should take some kind of leadership role here and take this issue forward. We shall soon have several hundred thousand people who will fall completely out of all support in this matter. This is a serious matter. This has nothing to do with this, but it is only to be welcomed that money was also found for the implementation of this Healthy Facilities project.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u479	Mr President! In fact, this Healthy Facilities item was discussed in the Section for Local Government and Health, which is the section in which I chair, but that appropriation is here in Section 23 of the Prime Minister's Office, and therefore Mrs Niikko is here as rapporteur. As rapporteur, I could have been myself in this situation too, but this is good. Mr President! Indeed, we in the Section for Local Government and Health and in the Committee on Finance added EUR 160,000 to the implementation of this Healthy Facilities project, which will be allocated to the National Institute for Health and Welfare. In this context, the Finns also have an addition to this point, a EUR 1 million proposal in addition to this 860 000, which is now in the committee's report. We note that according to the calculations of the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, there are 800,000 people in Finland who are daily exposed to indoor air problems in both homes and workplaces. However, the problem sufferers have been overlooked far too little. Indoor air disease often starts with irritation symptoms such as rhinitis, cough and redness of the eyes. Finally, we can be faced with neurological and rheumatic symptoms as well as asthma. Too often, problems affect schools and day-care centres in Finland, when both children and teachers are exposed to problems even if there is clean air at home. The symptoms caused by indoor air are easily interpreted as psychosomatic. The sick have been offered counseling, or even considered to be mental - health problems. Since there is no diagnosis available, for many there is an alternative to a false diagnosis of mental health as such. This situation needs to be changed because a lack of proper diagnosis can lead to a person who is ill, for example, not receiving the benefits due to him or her and not being able to be declared incapacitated. The physiological symptoms of a child can be acknowledged as fictional by claiming that parents have mental problems. Clearly, more funds should be allocated to research, diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation of mold and moisture damage. On this basis, we have tabled an initiative which proposes EUR 1 million for this purpose, in addition to the sum of this committee's report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u480	Mr President! In short, just about this indoor air issue, which this section touches by adding EUR 160000 to the Healthy Spaces project: A good budget in itself, not in any way polarising it, I just ask where is the level of Finnish construction going? After all, it is quite incomprehensible that some years old buildings are being demolished because of mold defects and, at the same time, for example, there are detached houses in Ostrobothnia, which are 250 years old. In due course, even illiterate masters and renters may have been able to build houses that last a hundred, two hundred, three hundred years, and now we are building houses with architects, engineers and other staff trained by top universities, and the cottages are molding in a few years. A newspaper in the capital region reported that there is a school nearby that, after four years as a school building, is banned because of indoor air problems — a four - year - old building — so something is wrong with this system. And I am quite sure that even if we study for 28 years the symptoms of children who have fallen ill and how to get to them — very valuable research, I will not belittle it — it will not help, but we should start to wake up one day that what is wrong with Finnish construction when not even houses can be built anymore. I can't believe what you're doing. Do we imagine that, no matter how big it is, we would overtake this problem with a few credits? That's not how you do it. If I buy a car in the store with faults, the car manufacturer will surely put it in good shape and confess his mistakes, that this has happened, that the bad part was and is being replaced, and the car will then be useful. But when some grynder builds a big house that molds, it feels like it's the residents' fault. This is not how this equation works. This allocation of EUR 160000 is perfectly justified, but something needs to be done about this building. This isn't going to work anymore. Quoting my old friend, mold can only be found in public buildings. But if hundreds of thousands of people suffer, there is something seriously wrong with this construction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u481	Mr President! In this context, it is also necessary to bring up the garrisons and the reserves and the garrisons and what is happening there. In my earlier speech, I said that the government has forgotten the garrison: they are currently under-recovery. After all, until the end of the year they will not have any additional insurance cover so that even if you suffer from a disease for the rest of your life — related to this asthma — and you are entitled to compensation, you do not have it because you do not have it. Indeed, there will be about three contacts with the Armours Association a week, where the garrison will contact and suffer from indoor air problems. There are mold problems, and very many youths are on asthma medication. There will be colds, there will be physical stress of shortness of breath, there will be coughing, there will even be cases of coughing up blood, and then for the rest of your life you will carry that asthma and disease. This is absolutely shocking. This is absolutely terrible that our young people will then be in such spaces where there are indoor problems and molds of this kind. Senate properties have allocated up to EUR 800 million of resources to this since 2003, since when it has managed these facilities, but it feels that the final remedy will not be found and that the facilities will not be able to be repaired. The worst part is that the garrisons may not even tell us that they are experiencing and suffering from such problems. Yes, every asthma is too much, and it feels terrible that people go to work, go to schools and kindergartens and then get these diseases as a souvenir. As Mr Hoskonen said, I, too, as the builder's daughter, wonder what this modern construction is, because new dwellings are already moldy and immediately indoor air problems. There's something wrong with this. Will our builders then come from somewhere else where there are different ways to build, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u482	Mr President! In Finland there are tens of thousands of people who are symptomatic and ill of bad indoor air. According to some estimates, as many as one third of schools and day - care centres have indoor air problems. Actually, my own daughter's school just closed down for this reason. But sometimes it forgets that indoor air problems also exist in homes. After all, many people have lost not only their health but also their homes that have proved to be a home of mold, and molding as such does not even justify sick leave, because it is neither a disease nor a defect nor a disability if it is merely a symptom. After all, residents of an indoor-air-sick house are in a difficult situation in which, in addition to endangering health, there can be major repairs in their own home: refurbishment, migration, and, in the worst case, of course, an unrepairable home and the loss of a home. This is a problem which Mr Eloranta has shown a great deal of credit for. After all, since the beginning of last year, the situation has become even more difficult when the State Housing Development Fund repair grants were abolished to remove the health disadvantage and the obligation of the building supervision authority to provide guidance and advice. After all, renovation aid was directed at families living in the most difficult circumstances, who no longer had any other way out of this difficult situation. Many families could be saved back to normal life. Many of the spirals of exclusion and disease were prevented, but now the situation is that many families who have fallen into an economic impasse will no longer receive legal assistance, financial assistance or even advice. The government’s top project, the decade of Healthy Spaces, has brought fine plans for solving indoor air problems, but the problem is that it only concerns public construction. When this problem is always getting worse, the Healthy Spaces programme would deserve a much more significant contribution than this yellow book has given it, and we are proposing an additional EUR 5 million. In addition, the report of the Audit Committee, which has drawn attention to Finnish construction, must also be taken into account, and it must be assumed that the Parliament requires that the government take action to repair schools, day-care centres and other public buildings in order to improve the quality of air in cooperation with the municipalities and to prepare provisions clarifying the responsibilities of the builders and building managers in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u483	Mr President! Representative Hoskonen there marveled at the fact that construction designers, architects, and yet the buildings were molding. My view is that when the architects plan, they want to make the public spaces really fine and special so that they can see their own handprint. Even today there are many public buildings, even schools, where there are no gutters, and there is no proper blind, but the floor is there to the ground, so that all the water comes in. In Lahti, too, we have tried to build a new school to replace a moldy school, so there will be no fuss. Everyone knows what happens when you have a flat roof or a little crooked ceiling and all the water runs down the wall. Then these buildings will mold, they will also be done partly badly, they will be done in a hurry. The municipality obliges that this is a schedule, and the construction company does not want delays. It prefers to do after repairs, so then they're done at a terrible speed and there's a wolf and a second. Later, some adjustments are made and we hope that the warranty period will be sufficient. Well, then it's gonna be a few years, and the kids are gonna start showing symptoms. Even one of his own children experienced symptoms at school — changed schools, and wondered why his eyes were red at night. When the girl came home, she broke her head so that she cried many times and could not be in certain places. Then it was a drug to seal the walls. Knowing that there is mold, moisture between the walls, the medicine is to seal from the inside, then the mold does not come. And everyone knows how wall materials live up to the seasons. They won't last long, and that problem will be again in a few minutes, and millions more will be injected again. We've got it. Even in Lahti, a lot of money was put into one school, and in the end it was dismantled. And they were going to make a school where there were no eavesdroppers. There are also detached houses where these same mistakes have been made at a certain time when the bicycle had to be allowed to drive in: there was no pin on the top, all the moisture on the ground rose to the wall, and from there through the floors was in the inner boards, molding like this. But even in these public places: when children in school suffer from indoor air diseases, if the municipality does not have healthy facilities, parents are forced to take home, home school. It is known how expensive it will be when parents have to teach that child, probably at their own expense and at their own risk. Well, this is what we're gonna have to do. Much attention must be paid to this, which is why the Finns of Peru have done well to add to this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u484	Mr President! This €160,000 increase in the Healthy Spaces action programme seems to be proportional to the whole, that problem, probably quite small. Perhaps no one here is able to determine what the price tag should really be, so that with this appropriation we can get this problem out or at least clear up all the premises where this problem is. However, this will help to get things moving, with the aim of restoring these public buildings and thereby improving access to indoor air-symptom care. And the fact that this is going to get us going is an awful big deal. There has been a lot of talk here about public buildings, about the way they have been built over the last decade. Yes, the fact is that if we wanted to do a good thing for the future, for the decades to come now, then we should insist that everything built with public money — new buildings, renovations, renovations — be hooded, made under hoods, everything in the weather shelter, so that the materials could be kept dry. That would be one way to ensure that when a new property is built with public money it will not get moisture, no frost moisture, no rain moisture, during its construction. This would be one of the ways in which we might be able to bring the reliability of these problems to an end in the coming decades. Here, in particular, Mr Juvonen raised the garrison, and I myself, who worked in those garrison buildings for three decades, know how they have changed. Today, my own son is carrying out his military service, and I have been there in the last few months, and they are quite different from what they have been in recent decades, ladies and gentlemen. They live in much looser rooms, the rooms have air conditioning, the drying facilities are quite different from those they were in the 21st century. So there's a lot of work to be done here, too. In other words, when Mr Juvonen completely knocked out the Defence Forces' accommodations, that there are moldy mattresses and away from them, it may not be quite that class today. When you mirror how you have been able to promote that garrison’s accommodation in Finland, it has changed a lot.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u485	Mr President! It is good that we are talking about this great problem, these moldy buildings. Above all, unfortunately, our public building stock is in very poor condition. On a daily basis, 800,000 people have to work or stay in areas with bad indoor air, most of which are children and young people. The garrisons are also part of this group in many places, and quite a few of our health center buildings are, in fact, those with indoor air problems. There are many ways to tackle this problem, but this is also something that has been known for a long time. Even the Parliament has taken hold of it before. During the last term, the Audit Committee, chaired by President Tuija Brax, carried out a comprehensive report, a comprehensive programme of measures which should now be implemented, which should be implemented. Fortunately, the current Audit Committee is monitoring it all the time so that this programme can actually be completed. But yes it also means money, money for municipalities, so that we can support municipalities in having to do these repairs of mold buildings and completely dismantling them and building new ones with a very constant feed, because the situation is so bad. One of the problems that has arisen here is that there is usually such a great deal of urgency in the tendering process for projects and so much so that, for example, the drying of materials is not completed. Well, then we know that material choices can make a lot of difference. The type of ventilation should be such that even when students leave school, for example, it is not immediately closed down but is allowed to go there for a sufficient period of time to remove the moisture. The choice of cleaning chemicals should be taken into consideration, so that we do not destroy the good and useful bacteria there again with those poisons — even if the substances are so violent that only those harmful bacteria will survive and the good bacteria will be destroyed. And then, of course, one way would be for us to invest more in log and wood construction, which would also be a good solution from the point of view of climate change, because there would then be carbon stored and we would also have a better price per kilo than we often get today. It is important that this is really addressed, that this is displayed and that the symptoms be identified as quickly as possible, so that people are not exposed and ill. Quite often in these diseases is that once you are severely exposed, then it is an eternal problem and that threshold is constantly falling, in what kind of facilities you can still work after.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u486	Mr President! Mr Mikkonen spoke on very important matters. I myself feel that we have long been aware of indoor air problems, especially in schools and kindergartens, but we may have lacked an understanding of the seriousness and extent of the problem and then of the will to remedy the situation. For a long time, people have become like throwing balls because perhaps these symptoms have not been fully believed, and when not everyone has experienced symptoms, it is as if it is easy to say that this is because of something else. Too many people have had to get sick so that the understatement of indoor air problems in individual cases has started to become a national concern, which we are already able to hear here that national concerns are already at stake. Bad indoor air is poison, especially for the health and well-being of children. Children, for example, are more susceptible to asthma than adults, and therefore exposure to indoor air problems tends to make them sick. Adults also experience a wide range of serious and persistent problems, suffering from bad indoor air. But the reason why I asked for the floor is because I also have one concern in this area with regard to the state and public finances. Many municipalities are in a situation where more buildings at the same time are unusable, and municipalities are forced to make special decisions, even fast evasive spaces, which are expensive solutions. As far as local government finances are concerned, you know that there is not too much room for manoeuvre. At the same time, it should be possible to quickly either renovate old premises or build new ones, and the sudden cost to municipalities is considerable. In addition to what still happens so badly that the newly renovated building is suddenly again in the indoor air problems and unusable, the municipalities will have to pay back the state contributions they have received. This does create a multiple burden for municipalities on indoor air problems. And there is even the fear of delaying as far as possible before actually even being prepared to admit these indoor air problems, because these costs are so high and can completely bring down the municipal economy. In this Parliament, we should see this situation in the municipalities and consider how we could, for example, forgive such state contributions or develop a kind of payment plan that would then not be brought down by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u487	Mr President! I had to take the floor when my name was mentioned here. I mean, I did not completely knock this military situation out, but that is a good thing — since it is already so late that my speech was so firm — that it felt like it was a complete failure. Then there has been a wake-up call, and it was meant to wake us up that we understand and hear what the situation is in the garrison. I did not now manage to find how much military service is being interrupted there, for example because of respiratory diseases, but I found figures that in 2015 this percentage was 7%, or almost 200 of those who stopped. But, of course, we must remember that, and we all know that asthma symptoms can get worse for other reasons, and it can already be hidden. Dust infections and coldness are among the factors that trigger them. After all, we read about the press reports on these cases, and when they are recorded and raised, they need to be addressed. Yes, I am concerned that we have moldy buildings and real estate where our young people practice and are. While I was reading those stories, there some garrison mentioned that it seems not necessarily to be taken for granted and not to be taken for granted if you are left out because of indoor air sickness or such asthma, but it is thought that war may not need one man. These are just the stories and stories I've heard. I attended such a conversation a while ago, which was organised by the Federation of Armours, and these discussions were taking place just how to improve the garrison’s affairs from there on out of the daily allowance. So there's a lot of concern there, which we decision-makers have to worry about, and one of the themes that came up was these indoor air problems and mold. It is a good thing that it has been brought here today as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u488	Mr President! Here are some rather complex things presented in terms of moisture damage in buildings. Personally, I see it so simple that when a building is built, there are certain things that need to work. First of all, the poachers must be deep enough and they must act to keep its maze dry and to prevent moisture from rising through the capillary effect. The second is that the roof does not leak. The third thing that needs to be is that the moisture insulation has been put in such a way that the condensation water effect does not occur due to temperature fluctuations that it does not give moisture to the structures. And the fourth thing, of course, is that the air conditioning is built in such a way that the house remains dry. You don't need any more amazing things to do this. Then it's simple enough to go back to the janitor's system, and the janitor knows the house and manages the maintenance of the house and sees that everything works there from the pits and sewers and all the time, and that's what's going on. Then we'll have no moisture damage coming back. That's how simple it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u489	Mr President! In this regard, Congressman Salonen pointed out that many municipalities have many buildings that should be repaired at the same time, and when we know the situation in which local government finances are in, it is quite a big problem there. When three or four schools should be demolished and made new ones, they will then also ask a consultant to tell the delegates that this can still be summed up and done. This has happened with them. Then let's make it look like it's gonna be all right. Every summer we do the same renovation, there will always be new symptoms and measurements, and there will be something again, and the next summer they will be renovating, and again in a year's time it will be the same. In the long run, it will be much more expensive, but first let's try to make it cheap. Mr Hakanen spoke of this dry construction, that is to say, that we are being played out. In Lahti, we had one pilot destination where the new school was made so that it was hooded. There was the first storm, and it took the hood away. The structures got pretty wet there, and then we had to twist it with the builder. There was nothing more dry in that case than humor. Then one example of this, when a representative Semi talked about these poachers: After all, they are very important in buildings, but they have also been seen by the housing company to decide to put the pits so that there will be no more moisture, and there will be a ditch, a railo, where to put the drainage pipes and the same clay on top of it. Everyone knows if there was a great deal of use in the pipelines.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u490	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u491	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u492	Mr President! There was also talk about the big load in the municipalities as more buildings become the victims of moisture problems and thus the restrictions on their use. Perhaps there is one thing that we should pay more attention to here, too, is that building-time supervision and that when premises are made, we actually have professional supervisory expertise in the municipality or, if purchased from outside, but also that building supervision is proportionate to the size of its investment. It does not necessarily work in such a way that the current municipal building inspector, who has those qualifications, is able, along with all the other activities, to monitor the new school building at the same time as monitoring everything else that is going on in that municipality. This is often ignored in the context of the investment decision and then, in a few years' time too, these points raised by Mr Salonen, which may already have to be re-accounted for by the state. This is an unfortunate cycle, and we should be able to intervene in good time when we are going to take an investment decision. One of the problems for us on the public side is, of course, that, in these weeks, when we decide on the budgets of municipalities and cities and start to make investment decisions and start to compete, it is not really much before August—September that we get started with the construction site, where we go a little bit into the seasons, that we start to build at the wrong time. We should build then in March, start immediately when we are on the way to summer, and then take advantage of the potentially drier and better construction time. One problem has also been noted in these public buildings, and it is this seasonal use. In view of the fact that in June schools will be closed and these There will be no skilled janitors mentioned by Semi throughout the year, and then we will close the air conditioning when we think that they do not have to go, they will be closed for three months. Then we'll have another week before the school starts turning on the air conditioners and we'll think and hope everything's all right. This is also where the problems begin to accumulate. When four or five summers are done this way, then it will be a complete package and spores will certainly begin to grow. Then I have to say to Mr Juvonen, too, about the Defence Forces: I believe and in fact I know that there is also an extremely high degree of sensitivity. Of course, we must also remember that the materials of military equipment have also evolved a great deal over the years. New material is being developed all the time and we are looking for ways to get to more porous and better materials, so that those clothes are not so dusty or so allergenic. So this side is being developed. I would like to emphasise once again that the modern armaments which have now been built up, that is to say renovated, are absolutely top quality, so that they should be in good condition, as long as this technology is working, and that too is under good control.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u493	Mr President! Indeed, we have far too many garrisons, schools, day care centres, health centres and other public spaces with bad indoor air and even with these mold damage. I was pleased that Mr Hakanen raised what was missing from this otherwise very worthy speech by Mrs Semi, that the responsibility and supervision of the builder also in such longer construction or construction chains is very important, and I am not at all convinced that it would still be good enough for us in Finland. It is clear that no money will be enough to repair the molds of the future if there is no control and chain of responsibility to improve the current situation. During the last parliamentary term, the Audit Committee, led by Mr Brax, did a very good job in making such a comprehensive memo on the recommendations for action that various ministries should put into effect in order to prevent moisture and mould damage. Of course, it would be good if the present Parliament were to be informed at some point about all the measures that have not yet been implemented and which the Committee on Audit recommended during the last term. Unfortunately, this amount of money that is being invested in this operational programme sounds like a very small amount of money if you think about how much is being spent in Helsinki every year to repair moldy, moisture-damaged buildings. Indeed, too often these buildings are quite recently renovated, quite new buildings, which is precisely a sign that control is failing and the responsibilities are not in order. As I recall, this report by the Audit Committee under Brax set out as a measure how the municipalities could, as it were, expect these indoor air inspections to be carried out in time, and one of the measures was that, from the time the building was completed, it would be as if they would build up such a repair fund, so that the repair debt would not increase too much.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u494	Mr President! Very good speeches have been made here about indoor problems, their origins, the problems they cause for individuals as well as for municipalities or the state. Representative Lehto gave a good speech and told of the problems caused by the design and construction of buildings, which could then cause these indoor air problems, which are indeed present in every municipality and probably in every one of us in one way or another. Similarly, the problem of these problems, often reduced to home problems, has been well addressed to individuals, families, municipalities, or even the entire economy. This is, to a great extent, a national problem. And when the problem is national, it must also be provided with national answers. This is what I understand — not so much about the problems, but about the best practices in providing information on answers, disseminating information — this healthy interior programme has been created. We have talked a lot about problems here today and for a reason. I hope that this programme will also give rise to a debate on the answers that will hopefully solve these problems. After all, we must succeed in this work in the future, and I am sure we all agree with that, and I therefore welcome the thanks that have been expressed here for the increase in the budget for this programme in the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u495	Mr President! In this section of the Prime Minister's Office there are two budget proposals from the Finns Party on this subject, which was discussed, an increase of one million, and then, lastly, a small cut in party activity, i.e. party support. I would like to say that we have a similar small cut in efficiency throughout the budget for all the ministry's operating expenditure and the like. We assume that the administration needs to be reduced and that the ministries must also be able to save on these operating expenditures, which have been slightly increased at certain times. Furthermore, Mr President, we have six proposals for statements, of which I will say just three briefly: In Declaration 3, we refer to Finland as the EU presidency at the end of next year, and we propose that there should be places for meetings not only in Helsinki. For example, if the meeting deals with sustainable development or tourism, the meeting place could be one of Lapland, Oulu or Jyväskylä. There may be other places, but these are the best, of course. Then, Mr President, statement 11 concerns the governance of the state. We are concerned that the social service mission of Posti and VR in particular should be handled very well. After all, there has been a poor development in this regard, which is why there is a need to pay attention to it and why Parliament should give instructions to the government. Finally, in Declaration 12, we propose, among other things, that the State Development Company Vake is encouraged to create a national battery ecosystem and to support projects aimed at maintaining the functional capacity of older people and older people to reduce costs and improve the quality of life of older people, and also to identify the needs for increased AI training.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u496	Mr President! In Finland, building physics and home affairs experts were wondering some time ago why Finnish schools mold more than other buildings and why these problems particularly affect Finland, and when compared with other Nordic countries, our situation is weaker in that respect. For their part, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities also investigated this event, and they found that more than a thousand Finnish schools suffer from some type of mold problems. It is not just a matter of mold, but indoor air problems are also very typical in Finnish schools and even in new schools, not only in old ones. A study was also carried out on how this has affected the situation of teachers, for example. The Finnish Trade Union for Education and Training carried out a study for its part. They estimate that some 4,000 teachers in one way or another around Finland regularly suffer from these mold problems, and this makes their work more difficult, and some of them have even had to move on to other tasks as a result of this symptom. Studies were then carried out also for pupils of primary age and the study showed clearly more indoor air symptoms than for the analogue countries. This study was carried out by THL, and according to the study almost one in four Finnish schools suffers from moisture problems. The study found that although Finnish schools had fewer microbes than Spanish or Dutch schools, for example, Finnish children experienced more symptoms and Finns also had the most absences from schools due to respiratory problems. Mr President! This issue also affects municipalities in the sense that we in various municipalities in the regional and social reform are considering the responsibilities of the municipality of the future. These school renovations, and specifically mold problems, have been very strongly highlighted in different municipalities. We have now also had municipalities which have clearly shown that they do not have the financial means to cope with these responsibilities and therefore consider a number of possible ways forward in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u497	Mr President! There are 160 000 presented in the Healthy Spaces section, and that is a very good start. Very small, but a start anyway, a positive thing. The representative Kankaanniemi gave concrete figures and suggestions on these mold problems. We have put forward quite a few points, statements and money, and so on, so I would like it to receive good support. There have been tremendously good speeches here about this real problem, which, of course, starts with construction. What has happened in the last few decades, that there will be more of these mold houses all the time, and surely even today they will be built? What kind of trouble is that? We know it brings health problems, serious ones. But why do they build mold houses? It's probably about money, to a large extent. You should be able to build with air like air at a cost. Flat roofs — architects made plans for flat roofs, and they were built, it has been a disaster in Finland. During the winter season the flat roof — it is known that it is not a good solution. Then there are many other things related to construction. Perhaps it would be best to ask really the grandparents who sometimes built — then the mold houses were not so easily built — what was the trick then and what is being done wrong now. Of course, we also need to pay attention to the training of the builders in order to build the real, real facilities where there is no mold. There is probably no municipality in Finland where there is no home house, some private or day care centre or school or hospital or agency. This is a huge problem because there are a huge number of indoor sick and it is increasing. Of course, funding alone will not solve this, because there will probably not be that much money, but now we need to prevent the construction of future homes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u498	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u499	Mr President! Since we are already on Tuesday's side, I shall be brief. — This proposal by the Board of Directors to amend the university law and the polytechnic law is necessary in many respects, but it also includes, among other things, the possibility of making separate choices in which applicants could be accepted as students, for example, in the order in which applications are received, provided that their knowledge only exceeds a certain minimum level, which is not specifically defined by law. In the opinion of the Finns Party, however, every effort should be made to select the most suitable candidates after a limited period of time for submitting applications. Otherwise, the situation could become problematic in terms of equality between applicants, and this concern was also raised in expert consultations. The issue must therefore be addressed in the future in order to ensure equality between applicants. We tabled an amendment at first reading, but unfortunately it fell in the vote, so, Mr President, I shall now make a statement on this subject, which is also included in our objection. It reads as follows: ‘The Board of Directors requires that action be taken to check the rules on the national selection of higher education
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u500	Mr President! The flexibility of student choices is a good and worthwhile thing, but expert consultations revealed that there is a lack of regulation of individual choices in the draft law. Problems can arise if the admission of the most suitable applicants is not ensured. That is why I support Mr Savio's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u501	Mr President! The aim of this proposal is to strengthen the opportunities for continuous learning in universities of applied sciences and universities, and, as the committee also points out in its report, it is very important that universities contribute to the growing need for social education. More means must be provided for continuous learning to support the availability of skilled labour. In fact, continuous learning is a broader entity than the education policy issue alone. It is also linked and linked to labour and economic policy, for example. The needs of working life, and hence the needs of knowledge, are changing more and more rapidly. Working in working life requires more and more training, and support must also be given to adults of working age to increase their skills by completing a degree or part of it. Mr President! Of course, this proposal in itself does not increase the opportunities for continuous learning. However, it is a signal that continuous learning will play an increasingly important role in the future, and this should be taken into account by all parties involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u502	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u503	Madam President! The main proposals in the proposal would increase the amount of the guarantee pension, increase the minimum daily allowance under the Health Insurance Act, propose changes to the parental allowance under the Health Insurance Act to improve the status of families with children and reduce the annual own-account share of medical allowances under the Health Insurance Act. Such proposals are, in principle, acceptable and good, and I can say that here. However, I believe that the proposal as such and in accordance with the committee's report is unacceptable, and the Finns of Peru have objected to this government's proposal in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. I have already raised this objection in the debate last week, but this has taken a position on the cost of medicines, and our parliamentary group believes that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health should take the necessary measures to find out how to ensure that even the poor are able to actually obtain the medicines they need. I would therefore like to make a statement on this. My second proposal relates to the guarantee pension: The Finns of Finland believe that pensioner poverty is a serious problem. The income of low-income pensioners almost all goes into domestic consumption, i.e. circulation. In the Government's proposal, it is proposed to improve the livelihood of those living on the lowest pension incomes by raising the guarantee pension. According to the proposal, the legal amount of the full guarantee pension would be increased to EUR 631.69 at the beginning of 2019. In view of this, we believe that the proposals on the amount of the guarantee pension are, of course, in the right direction and are good, but that it is not enough simply to raise a nominal guarantee pension. True Finns consider too little increase in benefits for the target group that has built this country and continues to be among the lowest incomes in Finland. And here I make two statements in relation to our objection: The second statement relates to medicinal products: ‘The Board of Directors requires that measures be taken to reduce the annual liability of medicinal products to low-income persons,the amount of which is confirmed The second statement is: ‘The Commission requires the government to adopt measures to make use of various means to ensure that the performance of True Finns are very concerned about the survival of pensioners, and women with low incomes and a small pension are in a very bad situation in Finland, and that is a deep concern for the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u504	Mr President! There has already been a great deal of debate today on the role of the poorest people and on the budget proposal, and that is what our proposal is about, in fact, on this same issue, and I am no longer giving any more reasons at this stage. The parliamentary group of the RKP proposes that the following two statements be adopted in accordance with objection 5: The first is: ‘The Commission requires the Government to prepare a proposal to increase the child And the second is: ‘The government requires that the national pension be left outside of the freeze ofthe government’s index of income transfers and - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u505	Mr President! Today we have really talked about next year's budget, and here too, in order to save time when we live on Tuesday's side, I will keep my speech very brief. There were good proposals in this proposal, including this increase in the guarantee pension, but in the left-wing Alliance's alternative budget this guarantee pension would have been raised even more. We are also concerned about the cost of housing and the development of rent levels in the Left Alliance. There has also been a lot of talk today about family life and reconciliation of family life and work and low birth rates, and that is why I am making two proposals, in line with protest 4 from the Left Alliance, which are worded as follows: ‘The Parliament requires the Government to prepare the reform as a system of parental leave,in which the parental leave periods ‘The Parliament requires the Government to prepare a proposal to make the
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u506	Mr President! Mr Pekonen gave very good reasons for those proposals, so I support both of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u507	Irade fru talman! Det ox lagförslaget innehåller viktiga saker. Hur som helst vill jag förena mig med ledamot Eva Biaudets TVå uttalanden.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u508	Mr President! I support the proposals made by Mrs Juvose. Let me give you a brief explanation: The economic situation of many pensioners has been severely affected, among other things, by the rise in the prices of medicines and various forms of ownership, and we believe that the annual responsibility for medicines should be replaced by the annual responsibility of citizens on low incomes. That too is included in our alternative budget. The livelihoods of pensioners, especially of low-income pensioners, must also be given strong attention in the future. As Mr Juvonen pointed out above, many of them have made a long career in low-paid employment. The working life is long, but the pension has also been low due to the low pay. For women living alone in particular, the situation is very difficult in many respects, and particular attention will need to be paid to correcting it in the future. In their alternative budget, the Finns have also made a proposal to correct the folded index as a mid-term index for the first EUR 1000 of pension income. This change would be particularly helpful for those receiving small occupational pensions, but would be beneficial for all who benefit from an occupational pension.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u509	Madam President! The cuts in the sitting government have hit particularly badly those on low incomes and those on basic security. The Greens believe that immediate assistance is needed for those living on basic security and, although this government proposal takes steps in the right direction, they are quite inadequate in terms of the cuts that the government has implemented. The Greens propose an increase of EUR 50 per month for the minimum daily allowance. This increase would cover all the cuts made by the Sipilä government and raise the level of safety clearly. A clear level increase is also needed in the guarantee pension, as the government's increases in the guarantee pension do not cover all the cuts made. The level increase would improve the purchasing power of pensioners and contribute to the fight against poverty. The Government's policy to transfer the housing allowance from the rent level index to the cost index is to cut and make it difficult for the most vulnerable Finns. On the basis of these reasons, I would like to protest against the amendments that I have tabled in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In other words, Article 7 of the draft law, ‘Sickness and parental allowance and the minimum amount of special care allowance’, I propose that Then, to Section 8 of the draft law on the amount of guarantee pension, we Greens propose that the full guarantee pension should be EUR 672.69 per month. And to Section 51 of the 5th draft law on index-linkedness, I propose the following text: ‘The maximum housing expenditure is linked to the development of the level of rents.The total country and the annual rent index for all rental dwellings was confirmed by the Statistics Centre in the year 2010for which there was 100 points in 2010,the amounts of The maximum housing expenditure will be revised for the first time in line with the change in the rental index from the beginning of 2019.’ - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u510	Congressman Alanko-Kahiluoto, you've made some changes. They should have been done at first reading. Statements or rejections are made at this stage. Did the representative have a statement? — Let us examine it separately. Let's move on with the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u511	Mr President! At this stage, I am already in favour of these proposals made by Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto. Either way you go into their further analysis, let me give you my support if you had the opportunity to do so at this point, just in case. We talked a lot about poverty here today and that pensioner poverty is a growing problem in Finland, in the same way as child poverty. We are now at the point where decisions are taken in practice, and it is gratifying that there are now wide-ranging proposals from the opposition parties on how to tackle this problem. It is quite clear that, although it is good that employment has increased, we have, for example, a group of pensioners who cannot improve their livelihood with their income, and that is why we must ensure that these basic benefits are at an adequate level — the same applies to those who are on disability pensions or those who are on sickness pensions or those who receive other minor benefits. In that sense, these proposals now coming from the opposition are extremely important, and these are precisely the values that we have called for today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u512	Madam President! As has been said here, this government proposal contains a number of worthy proposals and increases, such as raising the guarantee pension and raising the minimum amount of rehabilitation allowance for young people in rehabilitation and vocational rehabilitation, and raising the minimum wage limit for resting on disability pension to the level of the guarantee pension and so on. We are in favour of these positive proposals from this government, but we have nevertheless objected to this, because we are proposing, among other things, an increase in the amount of the guarantee pension of EUR 30 more than the government does and, in order to ensure that rehabilitation is carried out, we are also proposing a minimum amount of rehabilitation allowance for young people and rehabilitation allowance in vocational rehabilitation to be increased so that it remains at the level of the guarantee pension. These are the reasons why we wanted to protest. We also suggested that, in our view, basic security needs to be improved. The government freezes the National Pensions Index mean that without separate level increases, the level of basic security benefits will remain permanently lower even after the freezing. It has been stated in the evaluations that the level of basic security is not enough to cover expenditure on a reasonable minimum level of consumption, and we have also received two comments from the Social Rights Committee of the Council of Europe on the low level of basic security, and we should have been able to respond to these. The income of the unemployed has also been weakened during the Government's term of office by, among other things, significantly reducing the duration of earnings-related daily allowance and introducing the so-called active model of unemployment benefit, which I have rather referred to as the passive model or the cutter model. In the opinion of the Social Democrats, the unemployed should not be penalised if, despite their efforts, the unemployed do not get a job or can not be offered active measures, and his social security and unemployment security should not be cut in this respect. We also believe that the livelihood of low-income pensioners must be improved. We do not accept index freezes or cuts or increases in customer fees, 30% increase in customer fees. In our view, the government now urgently needs to prepare an increase in national pensions and a whole programme of measures which examines the situation of low-income pensioners as a whole and sets out genuinely effective measures to improve the income and daily lives of low-income pensioners. In addition, in the view of our Social Democrats, housing allowance must also be strengthened. The Government intends to reduce the level of general housing allowance by continuing to freeze eligible maximum housing expenditure when granting housing allowance. The Government has frozen expenditure at 2015 level in the 2016-2018 budgets, and that is something we cannot accept. Rather, we want to develop housing policy and housing support schemes systematically as part of a sustainable society. We believe that the reform of family leave must also be launched urgently, as we have already called for on several occasions. Mr President! I would also like to make three statements: The first proposal for a statement: ‘The Board of Directors requires that increases in the national pension index benefits,such as The second proposal for a statement: ‘The Commission calls for the Government to start, without delay, the reform of social security with the aim And the third proposal for a statement: ‘The government requires that measures be taken in a group of governments to implement the reform of The reform must increase the flexibility of family leave on the conditions of families and children, provide better opportunities for fathers to care for children and improve equality in working life."
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u513	Mr President! After leaving that province here in Helsinki in the morning and now we are already at this stage of the night, the first thing to say is that I support Mr Kiljunen's proposals so that it cannot be forgotten at the end of my speech. When it comes to praise, you have to praise and acknowledge. During this four-year period it has not been possible to do so in this Chamber, but it is now. This proposal makes significant increases and changes, as it were, in the case of minimum daily allowances and parental allowances under the Health Insurance Act. This is a good and worthwhile change, especially for the sick and families with children, and that is what we Social Democrats want to support here. In the case of pharmaceutical costs, too, the trend is right when the annual ownership of medicines is reduced. However, it cannot, as it were, replace the decisions that have been taken in the past, as well as the guarantee pension. The increase in the guarantee pension is a positive increase, but it will not be able to compensate for the cuts that have been made in the past. The index cuts in social benefits will further reduce the purchasing power of basic security next year and thus increase inequality. It should be borne in mind that the indices are frozen now throughout the Government's term of office, despite the fact that the economic situation during the Government's term has changed from a very tight economic situation to an economic situation during the upturn period. These increases to lower benefits are necessary, but they are only a fraction of the cuts in social security during the entire Government term. As an example of these increases, this level increase in the guarantee pension, which, however, mainly enables the purchasing power to be maintained, i.e. it is not possible to significantly increase the purchasing power even for guaranteed pensioners. The general housing allowance has also been weakened, and the calculation of housing expenditure has also been changed from the rent index to the lower cost index of living. This is why the Social Democrats have tabled their own proposal, which Mrs Kiljunen has already tabled and which I therefore support.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u514	Mr President! One major problem with this government throughout this period has been that it has not carried out an overall impact assessment of its decisions and that is why many savings have been made over and over again for the same groups of people. All minor improvements to the position of the poorest are certainly to be welcomed, but in summary it can be said that once you have taken the bucket off and now you have to give back with a spoon, these improvements must be proportionate to that fact. The government has cut EUR 700 million from the poorest people's basic security, housing, medical allowances and other basic conditions of life, and these index freezes, for example, are truly inhumane. For example, small increases in guarantee pensions do not greatly improve the position of low-income pensioners, taking into account, for example, the increase in medical, nursing and other costs. The government has talked a lot about how well Finland is doing today thanks to economic growth, but at the same time it has to be said that a very large proportion of Finns have not noticed this economic growth in their own lives at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u515	Mr President! Certainly one of the most difficult points in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health's budget proposals has been the balancing of how to deal with these index freezes during this period and the good government benefit increases that compensate for them. Some of the increases in this reading are due to the fact that these index freezes were not dismantled for all KEL-linked benefits. Some benefits will then be increased, and these improvements may be considered important and in the right direction, but it is a great pity that many benefits are now missing a real increase, as index freezes for non-these increased benefits will continue. This now leads to a real correction of the level of some benefits, but the freezes are still in place for KEL-related benefits. The cuts to basic security have been pretty tough during this government period, and it is no longer enough to explain that when the economy was in difficulty and Finland's economy was being put in order, even small ones had to be given. Now that there is economic growth, we should certainly have taken care to reverse these cuts to basic security. At the same time, I do not think it is right to reduce the debt. The economy is growing, but at the same time we want to take care of the promises made to the low incomes that after difficult times the time will come when these cuts will be cancelled. This is not going to happen like the change in the level of some benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u516	Mr President! This proposal includes a number of changes to parental allowances aimed at improving the status of different families and increasing equality between families. This is an excellent thing. It is clear from the report that the committee also considers it important that the reform of the wider family leave system be continued. This is also a good thing. Family leave reform will be needed next season and must be an improvement for families, not an operation. That is why the Centre thinks that family leave reform must also pay, and when it is done, it must be done ahead of families and children, not just on economic terms. The aim of the Centre Party is to improve the livelihood of families, increase equality and ensure a genuine choice for families in the care of their children. For example, we do not accept the scrapping of home care support. And I would like to reiterate that any possible reform of family leave must be an improvement for families, not an operation. This was very clear today, for example, in the debate on the budget by Mr Ala-Nissilä on the centre's group speech. Mr President! This proposal will also result in, for example, higher guarantees and minimum daily allowances and a reduction in the annual contribution of pharmaceutical costs. These are improvements in the right direction. They are good targeted measures to improve the economic situation of the most vulnerable, to which there is, of course, still room for improvement. There is a real need for these increases, as has been very rightly said many times here today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u517	Madam President! I'm sorry for the mistake I just made. Indeed, we only had these changes in this proposal, but on the next point, which continues to deal with these government cuts, I would like to make a statement from the Greens that the government should take measures to compensate for these national pension index freezes and other cuts targeted at the lowest incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u518	Mr President! However, it is still necessary to comment on the centre's point of view in that it is a question of the location of some benefits, but the government could not afford such a good economic situation — think, in such a good economic situation, when there is growth — that is where the fruit is distributed to all those whose indices have been frozen. Yes, I must say that each of us must have a heartache when, for example, the government did not find EUR 60,000 for the fact that a veteran supplement and a front supplement could be put out of these freezes — EUR 60,000 when this proposal was made. Today, it has become clear in the Chamber that this mistake will be corrected in the future, but the opposition argued in committee and also in the vote that it should at least have been possible to put such things in order. It is not very easy to deal with these good benefits in themselves, because all those who have had their basic security cut should have had this same happiness. That would have been the right thing to do at a time like this. That would have been the right thing to do to reduce inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u519	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u520	Madam President! This proposal proposes the adoption of a law on indexation of national pensions and certain other benefits in 2019 and also proposes the amendment of the Act on the National Pensions Index and the Act on Income Support. The national pension index would be frozen to the level of 2018. The Group of the Party of European Socialists does not support proposals that affect the reduction of benefits for pensioners and families. This reduction in benefits is also mentioned in the government proposal. On the other hand, the proposal does not include an adequate assessment of the impact of the proposals on the role of citizens for decision-making purposes. Nor has the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health properly taken into account the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which states that, according to the report received by the committee, the proposed index freezes together with previous index cuts increase the long-term need for last-minute income support. A similar message has also come to the attention of the committee on expert opinions. The True Finns believe that since the proposals with previous index freezes continue to affect the same people and the same population base, this further increases the risk of impoverishment, which we believe should be avoided. The poor get poorer and the rich get rich. That is why we believe that this bill is unacceptable and we propose that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u521	Mr President! Much has already been said in this Chamber today about the budget for the coming year and about the cuts in basic security. The economy is growing, but this government does not believe that growth belongs to everyone. Government policy is tough and cold. All the most vulnerable people are being cut again. I tried to propose the dismantling of the index freezes in the section, but they were already voted on and the index freezes will also come into effect next year. For this reason, I would also like to object to a statement in accordance with Article 4, which reads as follows: ‘The Board of Directors shall require that measures be taken by the government to reduce the poverty of the pensioner and submit a proposal for an increase
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u522	Mr President, ärade talman! Också Svenska folkpartiet har svårt att acceptera att de fattigaste pensionärerna får stå för nedskärningar och inbesparingar. Därför vill vi förka indexfrysningen till den del det gäller folkpensionerna.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u523	Madam President! That pensioner poverty is so bad that better increases in their income base should be made and their livelihoods should be taken care of in a slightly better way. That is why I support Mr Pekonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u524	Irade fru talman! Jag understöder ledamot Biaudets förslag.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u525	Madam President! In the 2019 budget, the Government continues to propose the continuation of index freezes at the index-cut level of 2016. This change concerns Finnish people with low incomes on a large scale. It concerns national pensions, guarantee pension and other benefits that are adjusted on the basis of the national pension index or otherwise linked to the amount of national pension. Such other benefits include disability benefits, front benefits, basic unemployment allowance under the Unemployment Protection Act, labour market support, child increase and so on, i.e. it concerns the benefits of the poorest Finnish people. The Greens believe that there are no sustainable grounds for and should not be accepted for government index cuts and freezes. As has already been mentioned above, the economy is on the increase, but for the poorest there are not even enough crumbs from the government's cold policy. We Greens do not think that it is sustainable or reasonable for index savings to be used to discipline families with children, unemployed people, pensioners, students, disabled people, military service providers and sick Finns in particular, while the Government's competitiveness pact with tax reductions favours high incomes and environmentally polluting activities with various kinds of tax subsidies. These measures weaken the purchasing power of low incomes, which weakens domestic demand and growth prospects for domestic companies. On these grounds, I propose that the legislative proposals be rejected and that a single statement be adopted, i.e. a proposal for a statement of the Greens’objection: ‘The Commission requires the government to become involved in measures to increase the benefits so as to compensate for the freezes and cuts in the national pension index. “ - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u526	Mr President! I support these proposals made by Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto. It is unreasonable that, now that the economy has reached a growth path, these low-income people, who were first cut off when the government sought savings at the beginning of this reign, will not be given back. It is quite clear that this group would have been the first to deserve to cancel the index freeze. Indeed, here comes a situation like this that growth does not belong to everyone, but the growth has then come to enjoy only a certain section of the population. The first point where you're looking for savings is that you've gone to the purses of the lowest-incomed. It would therefore be reasonable for these index freezes to be cancelled now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u527	Mr President! I support Mrs Juvose's rejection proposal. The freezing of the National Pensions Index is, in itself, a tough economic policy measure, especially now that we have reached a booming period, and it is particularly important to take account of the fact that this decision would even affect the front. In this Chamber today, or indeed yesterday, Monday, we have lost sight of whether there is a cut, because the actual benefits in euro will not be reduced. Well, with the rise in price levels and, in particular, the rapid increase in housing costs and other costs, the purchasing power of benefits linked to the National Pensions Index will in any case be weakened by this decision, which the government is now planning to adopt, and that would inevitably undermine the economy of many vulnerable citizens and would also affect the need for income support, as Mr Juvonen said earlier, so I think that this rejection proposal by Mr Juvonen must be supported, and I support it once again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u528	Madam President! We Social Democrats, too, cannot accept the government's continuing basic security cuts, which repeatedly hit the same people and drive people into poverty and last-minute income support as customers. We cannot accept the government's proposal to freeze the National Pensions Index, which in practice means cutting people's basic security benefits. And once it has been said here today and it has been claimed that this would not be an index cut but a freeze, the actual level of national pension in 2019 will be reduced by EUR 25 per month, i.e. approximately EUR 300 per year compared to the fact that this index increase had been made during this term of government, so we can clearly demonstrate that it is a cut. So the government has weakened the position of people on low incomes, increased inequality and deepened poverty. The increases in benefits linked to the National Pensions Index have been frozen during the entire Government term, and the benefits have also been cut in levels. Year after year these index freezes accumulate for the same persons and families. Other deteriorations have been caused, among other things, by reimbursement of medicines and housing support, and increases in customer fees are sorely affecting the most vulnerable people. Similarly, the government's cuts have been directed towards unemployment security, which has also been cut from the duration of earnings-related earnings, and whose level is also cut by the active model. National pension and its supplements, widow’s pension, children’s pensions, disability benefits, most child care allowances, basic military and housing allowances have also been weakened. The government has also proposed cutting the front increases for veterans. Today, the government has been retreating on this issue, but actually we have no proposal on this issue, which is why we will probably be dealing, at least tonight, with the surgery of the veteran front. Mr President! All these cuts in primary benefits have resulted in people becoming increasingly vulnerable to long-term income support and, as we know, when a person is led to income support, it is much more difficult to rise from the situation in life. Mr President! We Social Democrats, on the basis of our objection 1, are going to reject the second bill in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u529	Mr President! In the expert hearings, the S.O.S.E. said: These cuts can no longer be justified by economic reasons. The Government's decision on index cuts was made at a time when Finland's economic growth had subsided and unemployment was high. However, the situation has changed since 2015, which is why these cuts can no longer be justified on the grounds of savings. Now it's all about value choices. There has been a desire to choose a line that continues to despoil the situation of people who have already shared the misery of the past few years. In addition, SOSTE pointed out that the analysis of inflation should take account of the fact that inflation at the poverty line is higher than overall inflation. During the 21st century, annual low-income inflation has been around half a percent higher and throughout the 2000s around 8% higher than the average for other households, and this is due to the fact that low-income consumption is directed towards products with higher inflation rates, such as rents. This means that poverty is a double squalor, because inflation will lead to a deterioration in the situation of the low-income population and will be accompanied by these cuts. These cuts have particularly hit the unemployed, families with children and students, and the disposable income of low incomes has fallen significantly. The disposable income of the lowest income decile decreased by around EUR 158 in families with children from 2015 to 2018 and by approximately EUR 120 per month in households. In addition, THL pointed out that index freezes together with previous index cuts increase the long-term need for last-time income support and reduce the chances of the most vulnerable households to a reasonable minimum consumption and that in 2018 the income of the recipient of labour market support will be around 20 % of the reasonable level. 20% of a reasonable level — it is a big gap for the unemployed and also for those who have long been covered by labour market support and housing support. Therefore, on these grounds too, I support Mr Kiljune's proposal for the wreckage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u530	Mr President! Some aspects also for this index freezing discussion: From the point of view of those people whose benefits have been left to freeze, it is very unfair to claim that there has been no shortage of purchasing power. This is why the debate about the fact that index freezes of these benefits are not cuts, but are actually index freezes, does cloud the fact that Finnish society also has an opportunity in the booming period, or at least in the economic climate, to make political cuts to the basic benefits of the most vulnerable people in Finnish society. Consequently, these future freezes during 2017-2019 will result in a significant impact on the level of benefits. In practice, this means that during 2017-2019 benefits will fall to the 2016 level: 2019 the same benefit will be at the 2016 level. There will then be no way to explain to these people that this freezing of benefit does not result in surgery. Yes, it is a significant cut in purchasing power. There are many examples in this respect. It is sad that the freezing of the National Pensions Index is involved, but also many other freezings. Today there has also been a long debate about the freezing of these veterans, both front and veteran. In this respect, it is worth noting that the government is proposing an annual saving of EUR 60000 in this proposal in order to make the freezes of both the veteran and the frontload index, which would amount to EUR 60000. In Finnish society, although there is economic growth, even this fight against index freezing has not been able to afford. This now leads to the fact that the level of benefit for the veterans' front payment will remain at the 2016 level until the end of next year. The Kela index would have risen by 1.2 per cent during that period. It is not a big money, it is a very small money, but it is a matter of principle, a big question as to whether the small support that veterans are entitled to in Finnish society is appreciated. In this regard, in Finnish society, the government parties have in fact voted three times to ensure that this small money is not coming. The big question, therefore, is once again whether or not to take care of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u531	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u532	Madam President! The proposed new law would define the minimum working conditions for applying housing-based benefit legislation to an employee coming to Finland. The proposed amendment of the minimum duration of employment requirement for a worker coming to Finland would mean that a worker could also be entitled to housing benefits which fall within the scope of EU Regulation 883/2004, such as child benefit and health insurance benefits, during a short period of work of less than four months. Due to the change, it is estimated that sickness allowance expenditure will increase by 0.8 million per year, medical allowances by 0.6 million and child supplement expenditure by 0.6 million euros. According to the proposal, a person temporarily leaving Finland could remain in housing-based social security for six months instead of the current 12 months. Shortening the temporary period of stay abroad will, in particular, undermine the right of non-full-time students and other persons temporarily leaving abroad to live-based social security benefits. The Finns believe that there are problems in this bill that are not as clear as we would like it to be, and we see that this government proposal and its proposals also undermine the social security of Finns. It weakens when it has been a year before and then it changes for six months. That is why I object, in accordance with Rule 3, to the rejection of the legislative proposals. So the rejection motion is from our group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u533	Mr President! I support Mrs Juvose's rejection proposal. First of all, the Finns of Peru are dissatisfied with the economic impact of the bill, which, in our opinion, has been strongly assessed under the ground and justified rather vaguely and not very comprehensively. The position of workers posted abroad from Finland, in particular researchers and development workers, would also be significantly weakened by the proposal, as Mrs Juvonen said well before. In addition, we are particularly critical of the more accessible social security for foreign citizens, and also of the work of less than four months if the bill is implemented. This could make a significant contribution to the creation of a low-wage labour market in our country, as wage moderation could be compensated by subsidies from society, i.e. taxpayers. Mr President! In our view, the whole text of the draft law and its incomplete arguments are such serious problems that we cannot accept this bill, and I therefore support Mrs Juvonen's rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u534	Mr President! Finns are increasingly moving both inside and outside the European Union, and the need for the development of social security legislation is becoming increasingly topical and topical. In the context of the reform of social security legislation, ensuring legal protection for beneficiaries and clarifying the system to be understood and transparent are priorities. I am proposing to reject the government's proposal, because there have been some contradictions in the proposal during the committee's deliberations. We are not prepared to accept changes in housing-based social security for those who come to work in Finland in the form proposed by the government, because during the short and rapid committee reading we did not exactly find out whether the government intends to improve or weaken the position of those who come to Finland. On the other hand, the position of Finns going abroad will be weakened. This has been made clear both on the basis of the proposal and on the basis of expert consultations. We do not accept the proposed weakenings that are poorly suited to an internationalising world where our young people, among others, seek to volunteer outside the EU to gain international experience and experience in life. We want to allow and enable our young people to do so without being penalised by the loss of social security. In addition, expert consultations have shown that not all social security executives will be able to see the data in the Incomes Register immediately, even though the reform will enter into force at the beginning of 2019, and this is not a good solution. Furthermore, we criticise the fact that this proposal has also been dealt with in committee on a timely basis and that we have not received an answer to all the questions that are now being raised there. I therefore propose that the draft law be rejected and adopted in one statement, and this proposal for a declaration reads: ‘The Commission requires that the effects of changes in socialsecurity for future employees in Finland should be monitored and, where appropriate, taken into account.’
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u535	Madam President! Mr Salonen well described the state of affairs in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on this matter. During the committee's deliberations, there were various contradictions which did not allow us to be clear about people's legal security. On these grounds, I support the motion for rejection tabled by Mr Salonen and the proposal for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u536	Madam President! Although it is claimed otherwise from the government's proposal, the proposal seeks to undermine the principle of housing based on Finnish social security. The problem is that access to social security is open with relatively limited and short-term work. In the long run, this may increase the number of immigrants seeking only and only to benefit from high-quality social benefits and services in Finland. This will easily lead to transfers of income to these low-paid immigrants instead of tax payments, which means that social security is a part of their pay. This attracts when social protection is much lower in many countries, particularly Africa, and then attracts here that even if there is a small wage, then there is a good social security. This is a big incentive since low-paid people who do not pay a lot of taxes in practice, but are still receiving transfers from the state, come here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u537	Mr President! Yes, it must be admitted that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health had very little time to deal with this important government proposal as such. It must also be acknowledged that there are very few two consultations on such an important issue. We have been at a time of timing since the war ended, because, in fact, all these budgetary laws, with almost twenty opinions and reports in committee, did not have much time to deal with. This has led to the fact that it is clear that in this presentation the position of Finns when they are not in the main activity of work or main activity of studying will be weakened, but there are also restrictions on how the position of workers posted from Finland in the world will then be changed in terms of social security. In addition, it was even more difficult in the committee to find out the way in which improvements actually made in the position of workers coming from abroad to Finland are improvements or weakening. Weaknesses in this proposal include the fact that the position of very low-paid people coming from abroad to work in Finland is being weakened. In addition, this proposal deletes the requirement that hours should be tied up for a month or even a shorter period, such as a week, to a certain number of working hours. When this condition is removed and only the total amount of earnings limit is left as a milestone, after which social security based on housing will be provided, it will, of course, lead to more work being done to obtain social protection for some workers. The committee received this information very late in this debate and, unfortunately, this timetable did not allow us to hear more about this matter and to look into this logic. But, at least in these two respects, social security for those who come to Finland from abroad is actually deteriorating, although here the bottom line of the main proposal is that it should improve. It was therefore unclear to whom this is a useful proposal and to whom, on the contrary, this is an unacceptable proposal. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u538	Mr President! We should now listen to those young people who are planning to leave the EU as an au pair or who are planning to leave the world to collect plastic waste from the world's seas outside the EU area and plan to be on their way for about a year, for example. For their part, the government now wants to reduce social security — that is to say, to undermine social security. A person temporarily leaving Finland can remain in housing-based social security for only six months in the future when it is currently 12 months, and the time for this kind of normal, natural time for a young person to go on such a job, au pair or volunteer work, or even as an athlete to try his wings, is for one year. So now it means that this person should be able to take out either local or private insurance to protect himself. The second question is, then, that if you happen to become pregnant and still have a child during that period, it is also true for this child that the child is not automatically covered by Finnish social security even if they move to Finland immediately after eight months. This is, in particular, a significant weakening of the Finnish youth, which is now being done here. That, too, was something that we had to do quite a lot in the committee and ask ourselves that this too was clarified. This first seemed to be something of a complete disregard, although I think it is an important issue. Finally, I would like to say that Finnish housing-based social security is a very different model. Therefore, for all solutions, we must safeguard the maintenance of housing-based social security and its carrying capacity in an otherwise heavily insurance-based EU social security system. In this model of ours there are wisdoms that should not be allowed to run away with the bathwater when individual legislative decisions are made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u539	Mr President! I also forgot to comment that, as Mr Salonen said earlier, in the opening consultation of the committee, it appeared that there would not be any weakening for Finns in terms of housing-based social security when studying or working abroad, but that water-sharing agent, the limit is that its work or study should be of the essence. This is why there are many young people and why not even older Finns, who naturally assume that social security is based on housing in a welfare society. This is why it has been a great surprise that a very small amount of money is saved in the state budget on a big issue, which is a feeling for Finns that we, however, are covered by Finnish housing-based social security. In this regard, it has been a big surprise to miss the fallers. Especially serious is the situation for those who may become pregnant after one year of being abroad and end up in a situation where housing-based social security has lapsed while the world is around. Such persons may then suddenly be found, even though, in reality, this should only apply to a very limited number of individuals. The second aspect is that – and I think it has been a great wisdom for the SDP to present such an impetus – these changes are being followed up and the position of people coming from abroad in the labour market is also being widely monitored. Then we can come back to this when we see how these government proposals will work in the future. That is why I personally believe that it would have made more sense, with this information, to reject this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u540	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u541	Mr President! This is a intermediate Community law, which is part of the national implementation of the EU Tax Recycling Directive. National implementations in different countries have varied very much, and I suppose it can be said that Sweden is, of course, closest to us, where the law governing the use of intermediate companies, the law governing the use of shell companies, has been applied much more strictly than Finland. As a result, the Social Democrats, the People's Party, the Greens and the Left have tabled amendments to this actual law, and when these tightening ups did not go through, we then have the hope at this stage of linking this flawed intermediate law to Parliament's wish, from the ponies, to stricter other regulation that would help to overcome the problems that have been left behind in the intermediate law, that is, that it does not strictly address aggressive tax planning and does not prevent Finnish companies from moving to low-tax countries. In other words, I would like to express my objections to the three impetuss for the approval of this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u542	Mr President! I did not have a chance to be there at that first reading a week ago. I believe that two speeches were made at the time, and I looked at them and they did not touch very much on the substance of this proposal and the report. Perhaps I could tell those who are interested in the parliamentary minutes about this proposal the key points. This government proposal is due to the EU's tax avoidance directive, which requires amendments to the so-called intermediate law to be brought into force from the beginning of next year. The intermediate law entered into force from the beginning of 1995. Several changes have been made along the way. Let me turn here to two key changes to be made: The second concerns Finland's threshold for determining the fundamental powers of taxation. Currently, Finland’s right to taxation on intermediate income arises if taxpayers generally own at least 50 % of the Community’s capital or votes or receive at least 50 % of its income. Individual Finnish shareholders are taxed on intermediate income if their share of the capital, voting rights or income from wealth has been at least 25 per cent. According to the Government’s proposal, tax law is no longer required for shareholders generally taxed in Finland to own at least 50 % of the intermediate entity. A right of taxation shall arise if the direct or indirect control of the intermediate entity by the shareholder and his domestic or foreign contact points is equal to or greater than 25 %. The second amendment concerns the exemption from intermediate Community regulation on commercial grounds. According to the Government's proposal, taxation of intermediate income could continue to be exempt if an intermediate entity resident in an EU or EEA State actually carries out an economic activity in its State of residence. This exemption is based on the case law of the EU Court of Justice and is also enshrined in the current intermediate Community law. In addition, in the current law, the non-EU and EEA countries are covered by the so-called sector exemption, more correctly by the industry requirement, which has been extended to other production or service activities than industrial production activities in the Government's proposal. This is a good expansion for modern business models such as digital services. This means a kind of updating of the intermediate law of the mid-1990s. Mr President! The new law will strengthen the regulatory framework for intermediate tax treaty states as soon as the grey list is abolished. Now, even in the State of the tax treaty, the conditions for an exemption from an economic activity must be met. It is therefore good to extend the scope of acceptable sectors to digital business. The current scope of the industry exemption applies only to heavy industry and dates back to the mid-1990s and has not been able to take into account today's digital business, which is carried out in centres such as Singapore for reasons of labour availability without tax planning. We have now had to deal with matters at the Supreme Administrative Court, where, among other things, the development of anti-virus software has been recognised as an industrial activity in the December 2014 Yearbook Decision. The report by the Committee on Finance considers it necessary to monitor the functioning of the regulations, taking into account, among other things, the internationalisation of companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u543	Mr President! I support these statements made by Mrs Haraka, which are indeed shared by both the SDP, the Greens, the Finns and the Left. These are intended to prevent aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance. Indeed, if the company’s actual management position is Finland, the place of residence should also be Finland, so that one cannot move to a place where one could avoid taxes. We have talked a lot about the grey economy here. We have talked a lot about how the tax bases should be extensive and should be filled with these different loopholes, and it is important that when we apply the legislation that comes from the EU, we do it in a way that ensures that we are able to collect taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u544	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u545	Mr President! In view of the urgency with which this matter of the Automotive Tax Act was to be dealt with in the Committee on Finance's tax section and committee, participation in this second reading is rather modest. However, it was mainly a technical change which changed the emission limits according to which the tax is to be determined. However, the fact that the change in car tax presented in September between the new emission figures now presented at the beginning of December will be very important, perhaps even revolutionary, which is that the international climate panel presented its worrying chapters on warming the climate. At that time almost all the parliamentary parties committed themselves to the maximum goal of an increase in temperature of 1.5 degrees Celsius. It will then be absolutely necessary, even if it is a purely technical correction to the car tax emissions tables, to take account of the future needs that the climate challenge for transport taxation and mobility in general in Finland will be. That is why the Social Democrats, the Greens, the Left Alliance, the Swedish People’s Party and the Christian Democrats have jointly adopted the draft statement, which reads as follows: ‘The Commission requires the government to take immediate action to strengthen the effect of controlling the tax on cars and vehicles in order to make it more effective to encourage the purchase of non-emissions and low-emission cars,and to assess the overall picture of transport taxation in order to combat climate change’.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u546	Madam President! I support this proposal made by Mrs Haraka. We know that transport is one of the sources of emissions and we know that there are many ways of reducing transport emissions. That is why it is quite clear that we must also introduce the economic instruments we use to guide people to choose cars with less emissions or less emissions, and taxation is definitely a way to use it. Earlier in the day, we talked about whether we should introduce this type of climate impact assessment for all decision-making, what we do here — ‘iva’as well as having an effective climate impact assessment —and more than this climate impact assessment in particular in use,these are all decisions that should relate to the climate. Here is a good example of a decision that should have been taken immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u547	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u548	Mr President! The aim of this Act is to enable a new form of mobility, particularly for young people, between 15 and 17 years of age, by introducing a new category of vehicles. This proposal proposes to amend the vehicle tax law, the driving licence law, the road traffic law, the car tax law, the fuel tax law, the VAT law and the criminal law. In practice, the proposal proposes the introduction of a new national category of T-category vehicles, a light-duty vehicle with a reduced speed of up to 45 kilometres in the draft law, but with a limit of up to 60 kilometres per hour after the committee's examination. Young people need to move, and they have often used a moped or a moped. With this law, we will have a new option, a light car, alongside these. The aim is to improve road safety, especially for young people, and to facilitate their mobility at the lowest possible cost. The Committee on Transport and Tourism on this proposal sees this proposal as a contribution to road safety, to equality of territorial mobility for citizens and, consequently, to the quality of life of families. Compared to a moped, a light car may be a longer-term option, some of which, according to an analysis of the costs of the vehicle, is smaller than that of a moped. Mr President! It is good that this matter, which has been raised from time to time and which has been considered by various groups of peoples, is now being resolved in the best possible way. Once again, by this government, things are being completed that have long been in discussion in this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u549	Madam President! This government's proposal to make a so-called light-duty car possible for transport is an extremely good and expected legislative reform. In my view, this has also led to a significant increase in the number of aspects in the committee's work that contribute to and increase, among other things, the smooth running of traffic and road safety — precisely this change in speed category from 45 km/h to 60 hours. It is of great importance on that little busy road that a light-weight car travels 60, because then, when you get close to the urban area and the urban area, other speeds begin to limit that speed. Of course, it should also be taken into account that this has positive environmental effects, too, because when you get to drive your 60s you get so much lighter emissions when you can run a little bit with surface gas sometimes and not always in a pin like when you go 45. In other words, this is also a significant increase in environmental terms. Of course, the speed limit for motorways and motorways will now have to be changed. Now that the limit has been 50 kilometers per hour, now it has to be raised to 70 so that these cannot be driven there. Above all, Mr President, this reform is very good, particularly through the principle of equality and through road safety, and also as a factor in increasing the quality of life of families, when people live a little further away in a sparsely populated area and live at the borders of the availability of public transport, and if there is only one public transport in the morning and one in the evening, then there is not much activity other than at school. In other words, this vehicle can significantly increase the mobility of young people and the opportunity to engage in social interaction with one another. Among other things, this will ease much of the family’s concern for young people. I come from a place where a couple of years ago two young people in a serious traffic accident were killed by an impeccable drunk driver. There might have been some way of saving a light-duty car, but the moped was unsafe, and I must say that in our locality and in our region, the mopeds have, however, been considered to be much more dangerous even after the accident, because it was generally understood how weak those shells are. Here, too, at the first reading, there was quite a lot of discussion about what will happen when we start tuning light cars again and young people will be driving 80s of them in a few minutes. We must bear in mind that we have a legal system under which, if we go more than 60 years, we will then have a driving ban and other sanctions. All this is about is obeying the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u550	Mr President! At this time of the morning, I am not going to repeat my first-reading speech, in which I told you what was wrong with this bill, and as a result I propose to reject it in accordance with my protest. I will leave just one detail behind you all, because you will have to explain it in public: when this law is in force, a 15-year-old driver will be able to drive a 60-km-an-hour vehicle after four theoretical hours. So there are only four theoretical hours required. What could go wrong?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u551	Madam President! I'm in favour of a representative. It's a plant act. As stated in this protest, this is, in a way, justified by the increase in road safety, but it is still a question of what this is really going to do, when, in fact, people between the ages of 15 and 17 are driving up to 60 kilometres an hour after four theoretical lessons in driving education, where one can ask, of course, whether there will be an increase in safety or not. Of course, there was also talk of cars and climate emissions, and I think there would be another such bill at hand, that if a climate impact assessment were carried out, it could look very negative. In fact, this assessment has found that the proposed laws would increase CO2 emissions from transport. I know that public transport in sparsely populated areas today is very weak, but I would prefer solutions to be sought rather than solutions to the various opportunities offered by the sharing economy. It would also help the elderly who live there. We know that transport must change completely in the future. It does not only change because we are changing the current emission-free cars, but also how we move, how we share the mobility that we can create mobility services, will play a key role when we think about how we can make transport less emission-intensive. This type of development of services should be stepped up, and it would also provide solutions for creating new forms of mobility in an area where public transport such as the present one does not work very much, so that it is possible to move better without its own car.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u552	Madam President! I am very much in favour of this government proposal, with these amendments from the committee. 60 kilometers an hour — it is a safety issue, too, that we do not start to pass all over the city. We also have a lot of road sections around our own city, with a speed limit of 60 km/h, and when the mopeds are ahead, there is a gap, and it also presents a safety risk. This is good that it is 60 kilometers an hour, then it often serves as a family shopping bag, a second car. Even the parent dares or dares to go to the store when it travels 60 kilometers an hour, and it is good that it is called a light car and is not a youth car. This proposal also includes that it must be less than ten years old, or now it has been introduced in 2015 from the beginning, which guarantees that there is also good safety equipment in these. Then there can also be protection for pedestrians when they have automatic stops and brakes in these cars. Well, it's different than these plastic pots we got going on right now. They're so light, they go in the curve and slide on their own. Of course, it is always better to have metal around it and not just plastic, and there are heated windscreens and others. They're much better cars now. I think the only one who loses is these truck importers. They're out of business now that they've been selling those easily decomposing eagles, and now they're getting real cars. The representative of the plant was talking about theoretical lessons here. I used to ride a moped, there was nothing like a test when I got it under a moped, and they were often already tuned up, that they went 60 miles out there, and there was not an hour anywhere, neither theory nor driving lessons.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u553	Madam President! It must also be borne in mind that now that young people are allowed to drive these light cars — cars with speed limitations, so-called smaller cars — it will also train that young person to drive the car with a car card in the future when the car itself does not necessarily change much, the speed will only change. That I also see it as a safety factor in that respect. And considering that these young people will also be even safer in it to transport the companion, friend, friend or friend than they are taking on mopeds today, this will certainly bring a considerable increase in moderation to the traffic and then safety, and the concern will be reduced as they take off in a little safer car. Yes, I must say to Mr Mikkos that the sharing economy has been practiced for decades in rural and sparsely populated areas. This isn't a new thing. It's just come to the end of its path. For example, we ourselves have a ten - mile [10 km] trip to the city center — three young people and four cars currently in traffic in the yard or garage. There's got to be vehicles, because there's a different time. When the children were young, the grandfather carried, the neighbor carried, himself was transported. The sharing economy has always been in use. But today’s youths are moving more and more in different times and things. Yes, they must also be able to move around in the sparsely populated area as well as in the city, and to be in social contact with their peers. That the sharing economy is not a solution to this, but a bold opening of this kind, and that it was also the courage to leave the European Union to seek an exception for us on this issue, and that this light car was now made available to us. There is a great deal to be done here for young people to come, and in that way the possibility of young people moving will also be evened out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u554	Mr President! Indeed, Congressman Lehto pointed to the fact that, in the old days, the mopeds were driven without any training — and those bodies did come. Still today, a moped is six times more accident - prone than a moped or, for example, this light - duty vehicle will be. As far as driving instruction is concerned, imagine the noise that would arise here too if we proposed a normal driving licence — where the speed of driving no longer increases much in the small car — that for what miracle is it needed to teach and it will be enough for four hours when it is enough for the light car. Congressman Hakanen said it's only going to change speed. However, 60 km compared to 45 km is a significant difference. First of all, of course, the reaction time is prolonged and the braking distance is prolonged, and the vehicle’s motion energy is increasing to another power of speed. As a result, at 60 km/h, the motor energy of the car is 78 per cent higher than at 45 km. It also means that the collisions are 78 per cent more severe — after its shorter reaction time and longer braking distance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u555	Mr President! Perhaps, briefly, I should like to say to Mr Hakas that I know of course that the sharing economy, especially its traditional forms, is well-respected both in rural and urban areas, but I am referring here perhaps to new types of services based on different digital applications and locations, which also allow sharing economy services between family members, neighbours or relatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u556	Chairman! I still have to speak on this sharing economy and on the way young people operate today. There are cell phones, all the Snapchats and all the others that see you all the time where those guys and friends are going. This is perhaps precisely what the representative meant by the fact that the sharing economy is coming. But what do they share if there is nothing to go on? In other words, it must also be noted that this does bring that socialism to those young people and to be together when they are able to move safely as well. From this representative of the calculated result of the plant from impact hardness as speed increases: Of course this is true. This is indisputable, it cannot be denied, it is a fact. But when you think about the fiberglass tips on which they drive, which, when they go, are already shaking so that almost the hubcaps fall off, it is still a completely different class of safety, even though the speed is increasing and the impact is harder. However, these are mainly driven on low - class roads where speeds are no more than 100 kilometers an hour. Of course, the young will go to them too, because their territories are also extensive. All in all, I can see that we are doing a really good vehicle type for young people. It was also pointed out that, in the old days, a moped was able to drive when he reached 15 years of age. I do not have statistics in use here, but at least I do not remember those fatal accidents from adolescence, when there was no teaching, but we started driving after a bicycle, and I do believe that this is also where education, education and family attitude towards the young person is of great significance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u557	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u558	Mr President! This bill makes no sense, because this law does not even achieve the employment impact that the government itself estimates to be the target. It seems to me that this law is merely an ideological issue of authority for the government. There seems to be no retreat when something was promised to Finnish Entrepreneurs. Other parties, with the exception of Finnish Entrepreneurs, did not support this bill very much. The government has apparently decided to apply the principles of experimental culture to legislative work. After all, a culture of experimentation is a good thing in itself, but laws cannot be drawn up as experiments. As a result of this law, a period of many years of uncertainty arises in the labour market, pending legal solutions as to how this unclear law will be applied in practice. So this law mainly employs lawyers. At first reading, we tabled amendments to the second law, but we lost in the vote. However, since the government's proposal also improves the current situation with regard to the qualifying points mentioned in the second law, at this second reading we are only proposing to reject the 1st bill, namely the reduction of the protection against dismissal in small companies. The motion for rejection in objection 1 is shared by the SDP, the Left Alliance, the Greens and the RKP.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u559	Mr President! I see that the government proposal contains a new problem compared to the law in force. When a modified ground for dismissal is introduced in companies, the legal provisions do not provide a sufficient line of interpretation and must be brought before the courts. This will take several years and lead to high legal costs. This is a long-term burden for both employers and workers. Furthermore, I believe that this development will have a negative impact on employment, as fear of court proceedings does not necessarily dare to recruit a new workforce. Inaccuracy legislation also deliberately transfers legislative powers from Parliament to the courts, which we believe to be unacceptable. We Finns also doubt the impact of weakening the protection against dismissal on employment. The Government's proposal also states that existing research data do not allow a reliable assessment of the impact on employment of reducing the protection against dismissal. It is therefore seen that the government must take immediate measures to improve employment opportunities for small businesses without weakening the protection of dismissals, for example through the introduction of an incentive corporate tax model in the alternative budget for Finns. On the basis of the above, I support the motion for rejection tabled by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, as we had in the protest of the Finns of Finland 2. At the same time, I am submitting a proposal for a statement under protest 2, which is worded as follows: ‘The Commission requires that the government is involved in measures to improve the conditions for employment of small enterprises without weakening the protection against dismissal. And while reforms are being carried out, the government will ensure that government proposals do not result in small employers and their employees being left in a precarious state for several years due to the need to apply for preliminary rulings from the Supreme Court on vague acts of law.”
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u560	Mr President! I support Mr Lehdo's proposal for a statement. We believe that the government should continue to focus on measures which will improve employment without, at the same time, undermining the position of either employer or employee. Mr Lehto has just set an example of our encouraging business tax model for such a reform. Legal reforms must also be such that the resulting legal situation is not interpretative and uncertain, as may unfortunately be the case here. We will see what the case law in practice shows in the future. The main content of Mr Lehdo's fully reasoned proposal was therefore mentioned here, and that is why I supported this good statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u561	Madam President! This is, therefore, a national law on the protection of dismissals, which is a pathetic farce from inciting insecurity in the labour market. Perhaps the saddest thing is that the government itself believes that this will have no impact on employment. The question then arises as to why this is being done. Well, the message came from somewhere else where this kind of law is wanted, because it would feel nice to be able to get laid off and then maybe take on new employees. First we talked about small businesses, then the border was under 20 people. After that, it changed from under ten to attempts. It is now written in the draft law that the size of small enterprises should be taken into account in the case law. This has been done, look, for tens of years. In the past, when there have been controversial situations, account has been taken of the different situations of companies in these cases, so that no one may yet know or agree to admit why this law is being adopted — as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has suggested here, there is no reason. That is why I am very pleased with Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen's presentation and I support it, even though I would certainly not want such a bill to exist, which has no effect at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u562	Mr President! This proposal has also been discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, because it contains budgetary implications and these budgetary implications come to the side of benefits by reducing the duration of this proposal from 90 to 60 days. This side of the motion must be supported. There was strong support in the committee for this to be done, but there were also questions. I ask you that when a person is made redundant for his own reasons, is there a similar reprehensibility of different types of dismissal — probation, actual permanent employment, or, for example, in a situation where he leaves himself? In this case, the government has resolved this reprehensibility in such a way that the most reprehensible from the point of view of the length of the interval is the situation of the three examples in which the person leaves himself, for after the resignation of their qualifying period there will continue to be 90 days. It became clear in committee, and we did have the will to have that period reduced to 60 days for all, but since this 60-day period had an impact of EUR 6.8 million, unfortunately the government could not afford a much larger amount. For this reason, the times of toughness now vary depending on why a person has resigned or has been laid off. This is not in line with the current situation. Mr President! Then, personally, when the budgetary impact is assessed, of course, it will also be assessed whether this is 6,8 million in effect or not. In this respect, the government is unable to justify these effects by improving employment, but also by reducing employment, so it is now not known which way this draft law will guide this objective. This proposal for a reduction in the level of protection against dismissal was made precisely because it was intended to ensure that people could come into a better employment area, which is not going to happen now. There is no expert opinion that this will in any way improve employment. The weakening of the protection against dismissal for all Finns, especially in the event of a final right after years of rumba, is not a good and desirable objective and its objective of improving the employment impact will not be maintained. That is why this proposal should be rejected and the protection against dismissal should not be undermined.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u563	Mr President! As Mr Kiuru has said here, this bill will lead to the separation of the qualifying periods between those who have been laid off and those who have been laid off themselves. That is a very strange thing, as Mr Kiuru has just said. That is why, in our protest in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, we called for everyone to have a reduction of 60 days, because that would be such an equal way of moving forward on this issue. All in all, there are so many problems with these unemployment benefits that they should be given fresh thought. This complex and partly discretionary system of sanctions increases income customers, complicates anticipation and also reduces confidence in the authorities. After all, the aim of the quarantine system is to guide people into employment, but I think in practice it will be that many people have the opposite effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u564	Mr President! It has to be said that this proposal had to be dealt with very quickly in Parliament as a budget law because it had these budgetary implications when this actual legislation on the protection of dismissal was combined with the effects that would result from additional expenditure on next year's budget. This was not the case in the case of the legislation on the protection of dismissal, but since this political agreement was concluded within the government and, in this respect, this proposal was offered as a rather better proposal, it is now leading to the fact that in practice the reduction in the period of qualifying time differs according to what made the person redundant or whether he had left, and I think that is a rather peculiar situation. So if a reduction in the qualifying period were justified in order to reduce the protection against dismissal, then, of course, it should be done in such a way as to shorten the qualifying period for everyone. But the government was not prepared for this budgetary impact, so the proposal is not corrected in that respect. We also issued an opinion on this subject on the committee and it contains a number of different points of view. With regard to the proposal itself to weaken the protection against dismissal, the problem will be its financial implications in the future because of the toughness of the situation. Will it become tough because the employment impact is not generated but more people will be unemployed, so that the budgetary impact on the benefit expenditure also increases in terms of the period of spending, or on the contrary — no one will be able to say it at this stage. That is why I feel that when the proposal does not know exactly, even with such precision, who everyone is in this area or whether everyone is in it, then we are in a difficult situation. Now it would appear that the article is interpreted as meaning that it actually contains a weakening of the protection of all Finns against dismissal. How it will be implemented will be decided by the courts in the following years. It is sad that this was done in the name of the impact on employment, but in the course of the committee's deliberations there is still no such straightforward expert information available, and neither the government in its own motion nor in its explanatory statement nor in its opinion to the committee can justify it, and I believe that this proposal should be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u565	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u566	Madam President! Indeed, last week, there has been a vote on draft amendments to the articles relating to this so-called restriction law, which would not be necessary if this was not such a messy version, that the municipalities would be at risk and worry about how these services will be produced for the future residents. But here is one such big suspicious point, which is why it has been necessary and necessary to make this sort of statement, and I will read this first: ‘The Commission requires the Government to clarify that certain legal acts of Where necessary, the Board of Directors shall take measures to ensure that the law does not give rise to a risk of invalidity on real estate leases which was not the purpose of the law.’ So a story: when real estate leases can be made with more than one sponsor, there may be a situation where they do not even know that in their entirety this goes beyond the EUR 5 million limit, after which, if these criteria are met, the sponsors without even having knowledge may be the victims of an invalid contract, after which they lose the share they are funding. That is why it would have been good for the government to look at this point earlier, and that is why this proposal will then be put to the vote tomorrow, and it is hoped that, at least on this point, this fear and risk can then be eliminated, at least as far as the municipal funding is concerned, which is a little more familiar to me.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u567	Mr President! I support Mr Paatero's proposal for a statement because the need for clarification, as mentioned and described in the statement, is most obvious. It is a very good thing that this point raised by Mr Paatero has been noted and I hope that tomorrow's vote will be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u568	Mr President! After all, this is about tightening up the restriction law, which was actually introduced by the Meri-Lap Social Security project, and in that respect the Government's proposal is correct that these possible outsourcings should be restricted more strictly, especially on the eve of the social welfare reform. In this respect, one might think that it makes sense to hold a debate in the Chamber on the way in which current service providers, i.e. municipalities, could effectively outsource their services from the social services of different municipalities or associations of municipalities. In this respect, the tightening of the restriction is a step in the right direction, but I personally believe that we should have gone further. That government border still makes it possible to outsource even a very large area of activity. It can be, for example, emergency services, operational activities or even some medisic activities, such as internal diseases, and it is quite a big question whether we should limit them. Mr Paatero also raised a question from the point of view of municipal funding and we dealt with it at the very end of the closure of this restriction law. In that regard, the matter is well known, but according to the report we have received from the Ministry, this time it will not be addressed. Personally, I think it would be a good thing for the House to ensure, at least in the form of a statement, that this issue will not be forgotten in the future. It is very important to go through this concern of local government funding in the future as well, and I do not think it is enough to say that it is precisely in this area that we want to maintain the financial position of the province and that this concern is therefore unfounded. I think it is important that both municipalities and potential future provinces should be able to cope, and in that respect there is cause for concern, so I personally support this statement by Mr Paatero here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u569	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u570	Mr President! I am pleased that this proposal to strengthen the legal and social security of a family member of an entrepreneur is now in the final stages of the parliamentary procedure and will enter into force with effect from 1.7.19. The aim of this proposal is to improve the entitlement of the so-called non-owner family member working in the company to earnings-related daily allowance, thereby reducing the financial risks associated with employment and unemployment while working in the family business. It is proposed that the status of a so-called non-owner family member working in a company under the unemployment benefit scheme should be changed to an employee under certain conditions. This is a very welcome change. A non-owned family member of an entrepreneur is a person who does not have ownership, voting power or other control over a family undertaking. I support the aims of the proposal and consider the proposed changes to be very good and welcome. After the change, the non-owner family member of the entrepreneur becomes entitled to basic or earnings-related daily allowance on the basis of the labour market policy conditions for the employee. This change may sound small, but it is a major change in principle, and of course it is a major change for those who will be better off in the face of unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u571	Mr President! This proposal is widely supported, and the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health was also very ghastly and benevolent in the fact that it represents a significant improvement in the status of non-owners when the spouse or close relative is in a position of ownership as an entrepreneur. In this respect, there is a clear need for an improvement in unemployment security. As far as the details of this law are concerned, on the basis of a very rapid consultation, it is probably still necessary to return to some aspects of the content of the law at a later stage, but it is important to note that it is a good thing that reform is now being introduced in a way that will clarify this position so that, under no circumstances, a person falls outside the scope of unemployment protection in such a case, however, where there is a non-owner. I am therefore pleased to say that we are quite far along when we are here in the big room and even the clock is not yet almost fifteen after two, so this night history is being made in many ways. However, as we discussed long-standing index freezes and various other types of savings, even unpleasant ones, and, among other things, weakening the protection against dismissal, we are pleased that improvements are being made tonight.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u572	Partly, in part, for the second reading, presents the 21st item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 12/2018 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the agreements and then at the second reading of the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u573	The 23rd item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u574	Mr President! The fight against climate change and carbon sequestration have been discussed here today, today, in the evening and at night in many different contexts, in many different angles and in many different ways. I think we all want to do our best to combat climate change and to promote carbon sequestration, create carbon sinks and strengthen them. This amendment is both a reduction in red tape and a promotion of highly efficient carbon sequestration, in a small but very appropriate way. This legislative amendment will change the financing law for sustainable forestry, namely the Kemera Act, so that bureaucracy is reduced and the handling of matters is smoother, and hopefully this streamlining will contribute to the application of Kemera subsidies and to the carrying out of Kemera-assisted work, especially in young forests, where it is possible to apply for these subsidies to ensure their growth and optimal growth. Mr President! This is indeed a welcome reduction in red tape and a smoothing-up of things and will make the rest of our forests, which are already, as a rule, very well-managed, manageable. I hope that this change will contribute to this objective. The achievement of optimum growth is a very important economic issue for forest owners and it is of economic importance to us, but it is also very important to strengthen forest carbon sinks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-17-ps-132.u575	Madam President! Mrs Viljanen has already quite nicely pointed out how this affects our work on climate change for the forest owner, but briefly I could only say that this will ensure in the future that we can make them in the forests, so that we can make the forests more carbon-binding. In other words, this is of great importance, the dismantling of bureaucracy and the fact that we are going to get forest owners to grips with the fact that the first thinnings will be done and the nurseries will be done on time.
